Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20820-AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.6 MILLION
(US$ 11. 4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
August 21, 2000
Legal Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 21, 2000)
Currency Unit = Dram
Dram 1.0 = US$ 0.002
US$ 1.00 = 547 Drams
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABA- CEELI  American Bar Association's Central and Eastern European Law Institute
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCC           Council of Court Chairmen
EU-TACIS    European Union - Technical Assistance Program for the Commonwealth of
the Independent States
ECU           European Currency Unit
FMS           Financial Management System
FSU           Former Soviet Union
IDA           International Development Association
JTC           Judicial Training Center
GOA           Government of Armenia.
GTZ           Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
PAC           Project Administration Council
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMR           Project Management Report
POM           Project Operational Manual
SA            Special Account
SATAC I       Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SATAC II    Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           Statements of Expenditures
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WTO           World Trade Organization
YSU           Yerevan State University
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:   Friedrich Peloschek
Task Team Leader:   Irina L. Kichigina



ARMENIA
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      16
3. Benefits and target population                                                     17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           24
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Environmental                                                                      26
6. Social                                                                             27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     28
2. Critical risks                                                                     28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          30
2. Other                                                                            30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        32
Annex 2: Project Description                                                           37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       46
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          69
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 29596



ARMENIA
Judicial Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Legal Department
Date: August 21, 2000                             Team Leader: Irna L. Kichigina
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: Friedrich Peloschek
Project ID: P057838                               Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         N Credit        [I Grant        D Guarantee    O] Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR 8.6 million / US$11.4 million equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
_Financing Plan:   Source                                    LOC,          Foreign        Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.80           0.00           0.80
IDA                                                            0.00           11.40         11.40
Total:                                                         0.80           11.40         12.20
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND COUNCIL OF COURT CHAIRMEN
Ministry of Justice
Address: 8, Khorhrdarani Str., Yerevan, 375010, Republic of Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. David Harutyunian, Minister
Other Agency(ies):
Council of Court Chairmen
Address: 6, Khorhrdarani Str., Yerevan, 375010, Republic of Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Henrik Danielian
Tel: (374-2) 58-20-93             Fax: (374-2) 582-093              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
fY      |   2001         2002        2003        22.4 7005
Annual     0.5           2.3         2.5         3.4         2.7
Cumulative     0.5          2.8          5.3        8.7        11.4
Project implementation period: 2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
C0S PAD %n P, .M20, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed project is to assist in the development of an independent,
accessible and efficient judiciary in the Republic of Armenia, which is essential to govemance, rule of law,
and investment climate.
More specifically, the project aims at:
(i)  strengthening judicial self-governance through support to the Council of Court Chairmen (CCC);
(ii)  improvement of court administration and case management procedures;
(iii) development of a comprehensive institutional base for continuing education for judges and court
personnel;
(iv)  strengthening the service for enforcement of court decisions;
(v)  development of a comprehensive legal information system accessible to judges, legal professionals,
business community and citizens; and
(vi)  promotion of public awareness of laws and legal institutions.
Progress towards these objectives would be monitored using the following set of indicators:
(i)  development within the CCC of the capacity to manage efficiently and effectively the first-instance
and appellate courts (i.e. effective governance of the judiciary by the CCC);
(ii)  adoption of new court administration and case management procedures by courts;
(iii) development of new professionals within the court system including court administrators, judicial
assistants and financial officers;
(iv)  more consolidated and rationalized court structure (judges and other scarce judicial resources are
allocated appropriately; staffing levels are determined to allow the courts to discharge their assigned
functions);
(v)  a well-functioning Judicial Training Center (JTC) resulting in better trained and more competent
judicial system professionals;
(vi)  improved court decisions enforcement mechanism;
(vii) improved access by judges, legal professionals, business community and general public to more
reliable, comprehensive and up-to-date legal information; and
(viii) establishment of a comprehensive public education program to overcome the widespread distrust and
suspicion of the judiciary.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 16988-AM          Date of latest CAS discussion: August 26, 1997
The objectives of the Bank Group's country assistance strategy for Armenia are to: (i) foster the rapid
development of the private sector by promoting further structural reforms, strengthening the financial
system and the legal and regulatory framework, and alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks in energy,
transport and water; and (ii) support social sustainability and the alleviation of poverty through the
-2 -



strengthening of the social safety net, and through improvements in the quality of and access to basic health
and education services. A legal framework supporting a market-based economy includes laws, statutes, and
regulations that consistently protect the sanctity of property and contracts and the rights and obligations
associated with them. Equally critical is a properly functioning judiciary capable of resolving disputes in a
timely, impartial and reliable manner. The proposed project would assist in the Government's agenda to
"strengthen the legal and regulatory framework" by enhancing a judicial system that is independent,
effective and accessible.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
1. Background
During the Soviet era, judiciaries throughout the Soviet Union were reduced to roles as obedient executors
of the instructions and policies of the Government and the Communist Party. The Procuracy and the
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) dominated the nominally separate judicial system. Armenia is aspiring to break
with the past and establish an independent judiciary where judges would issue decisions based on the law
and exercise discretion within its limits. Taking into account the legacy of the Soviet times, it is important
to balance the power of the three branches of government. The institutional guarantees for the independence
of the Armenian judiciary from the other branches of government are therefore of paramount importance.
The Government of Armenia (GOA) has recognized the need for a reform program that would pave the
way to economic recovery. It has launched an impressive program of reform combining stabilization
policies, structural adjustment and privatization. Economic reforms, however, cannot flourish and private
investors and entrepreneurs cannot prosper without a legal and judicial system which can effectively protect
private property, enforce contracts, defend economic rights against infringement and establish a secure
environment for local, and foreign investments and market relations. Since 1991, Armenia has adopted a
number of laws and regulations building infrastructure for a market economy, including company law,
banking law, bankruptcy law, land law, etc. The key accomplishment was the passage in May 1998 of the
Armenian Civil Code (effective January 1, 1999). The Civil Code lays the foundation for property and
other institutional rights based on market principles and establishes key commercial law precepts. What
must now follow in the economic law area is the completion of important economic/commercial laws
deriving from the Civil Code, together with institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies,
registries, courts and other bodies engaged in the implementation, administration and enforcement of those
laws.
Accomplishment of these tasks was also an important factor in the process of Armenia's accession to the
World Trade Organization (WTO). It is also critical for Armenia's fulfillment of its responsibilities as a
member of the Council of Europe.
2. Government strategy ofjudicial reform
Over the last years, the GOA has made a clear commitment to reforming its judiciary. The two documents
that laid the groundwork for this reform effort are the Constitution of Armenia of 1995 and the Legal and
Judicial Reform Concept Paper adopted in 1997 (The Concept Paper). These documents subscribe to the
principle of the independence of the judiciary and set as their goal the transformation of the Armenian
judiciary from the old Soviet style bureaucracy to a modem functioning institution with the capacity to
resolve disputes among private parties, protect property rights, enforce contracts and protect individuals
against the arbitrariness of state actions.
-3 -



The Concept Paper states as the main objective of the reform program the establishment of an independent
judiciary that: (i) plays an important role in the state based on the rule of law and separation of powers
principles; (ii) guarantees development of a free democratic society and protection of human rights; and (iii)
supports effective market relations and private sector development.
The Concept Paper covered a broad range of reform actions in the judicial sector:
(a) reorganization of the court system in Armenia;
(b) reform of the Procuracy;
(c) establishment of a new legislative framework for the judiciary;
(d) transfer of the correctional institutions from the jurisdiction of the Interior Ministry to the Ministry of
Justice;
(e) reform of the service responsible for the enforcement of court judgments;
(f) reform of the Ministry of Justice;
(g) developing a new system of judicial training; and
(h) launching public education and public awareness campaigns in the area of legal and judicial reform.
3. The new legislative framework
During 1997-1999, a number of fundamental laws has been adopted by the parliament which provide a
legislative framework for the establishment of a new independent judiciary, among them: the Law on the
Judiciary; the Law on Status of Judges; the Law on Procuracy; the Law on Compulsory Enforcement of
Judgements; the Law on the Service for the Compulsory Enforcement of Judgments; the Criminal
Procedural Code and Civil Procedural Code. These laws became effective in January 1999.
The new laws on the judiciary created a three layer court system in which the first instance courts of
general jurisdiction hear all criminal, economic and criminal cases. The three appellate courts -- the Court
on Civil Cases, the Court on Economic Cases and the Court on Criminal and Military Cases -- form the
second layer. The highest court within the new system is the Court of Cassation which considers appeals
from the courts of the first and second instances.
Under the Law on the Procuracy the primary function of the prosecutor in criminal matters would be to
defend the position of the prosecution on behalf of the state, and in civil matters, prosecutorial involvement
would be limited to defending the interests of the state in civil litigation. The power of the prosecutor to
appeal civil judgments entered into force has been eliminated, thus preventing the supervisory oversight
over the judicial process which is incompatible with the principle of independence of the judiciary.
4. Independence of the judicial branch
(a) Soviet legacy
In Soviet Armenia, as well as in other parts of the FSU, a central shortcoming in the administration of
justice was the absence of judicial independence. Courts in the Soviet Union were neither regarded nor
treated as an institution separate from the political regime they served.
Judges had no guarantee of professional security and private welfare, and the funding and servicing of the
courts failed to shield judges from the outside world. In fact, in rendering decisions at trial judges were
exposed to, rather than insulated from, external pressures, some of them coming from political officials.
The local party leaders had a voice in the judge's continuation in office, including a say in their periodic
renomination for "election" and the right to initiate a recall. Most judges felt sufficiently obliged to their
- 4 -



local patrons as to cooperate with their needs -- whether responding to their occasional interventions about
a case or maintaining appropriate records.
The judiciary as a whole felt even greater dependency on its vertical master -- the MOJ. The MOJ
administered the courts by controlling their budgets, distributing bonuses, handling complaints, monitoring
delays and writing the performance evaluations on which judges' career advancement depended.
Another sign of the lack of independence of the judiciary was its relationship with the Procuracy. The
Soviet model of Procuracy was a universal supervisor over legality in the entire society. Under the
prosecutor's supervision and oversight were citizens, enterprises, municipalities and the government.
Prosecutors dominated over the judicial branch in both criminal and civil process. Prosecutors had the right
to overrule judge's decisions, could initiate criminal proceedings against judges without any intervention of
judicial bodies, and had numerous other means to effectively influence judges' rulings and actions.
The principle of an independent judiciary was established in the new Constitution of the Republic of
Armenia of 1995. The Constitution declares that "state power shall be exercised based on the principle of
the separation of the legislative, executive and judicial powers" (Article 5) and that "justice shall be
administered solely by the courts in accordance with the Constitution and the laws" (Article 91).
But the really bold measures to develop and enhance judicial independence in Armenia were adopted in
1995-1999. These measures targeted personal independence of judges (life tenure, appointment and
removal from the office, compensation, safety, and immunity from prosecution), as well as the issues of
institutional autonomy.
(b) Measures to strengthen personal independence ofjudges:
The Law on the Status of Judges established the principle of life tenure for all judges: the judges serve on
the bench until they reach retirement age of 65.
More importantly, the Law established the rule that removal of a judge from office could result only for
serious cause and only by decision of the Council of Justice. Similarly, imposing a disciplinary action on a
judge has to be based on specific grounds listed in the Law and the matter is subject to the consideration of
the Council of Justice.
The appointment process for judges is specified in the Constitution and the Law on the Status of Judges.
All judges are nominated by the President upon the recommendation of the Council of Justice. The Minister
of Justice presents initial nominations to the Council of Justice following the results of qualification exams
and evaluation of their competence, practical experience and personal integrity.
While the appointment, disciplinary and removal procedures for judges conform to commonly recognized
standards of judicial independence, the key to developing a truly independent judiciary now lies mainly in
their implementation. The procedures and institutional arrangements for judicial qualification exams need
to be further refined and the role of the executive branch in the nomination of judicial candidates further
reduced. The grounds for initiating disciplinary actions and removal of judges from office, as stipulated in
the law, are not sufficiently clear and can be abused in the absence of well-defined ethical standards of
judicial behavior.
-5 -



One of the main issues which has been the subject of continuing debate within the legal and judicial
community in Armenia is the composition and role of the Council of Justice, particularly in the process of
appointment and dismissal of judges. The President of Armenia heads the Council of Justice; the Minister
of Justice and the Prosecutor General are the two Deputy Chairpersons. The Council of Justice consists of
14 other members: 9 judges, 2 academics and 3 prosecutors. In order to strengthen the representation of
judges on the Council, the Constitutional Amendments Commission established by the President has
prepared a proposal to amend the Constitution so that the Council of Justice consists entirely of
representatives of the judiciary. The Bank has been strongly supporting this change in the course of
preparation of the project.
(c) Strengthening institutional independence of the judiciary
The CCC was established in 1998. It consists of court chairmen (20) and is chaired by the Chief Justice.
The Council is assigned a wide range of management and supervisory responsibilities, including
administration of courts, developing and implementing uniform court administration, personnel, budgeting,
case management policies and assessing on an ongoing basis the status of administration of justice in
Armenia. It is also responsible for the organization of ongoing training for judges and other court
personnel.
Establishment of the CCC was a significant development towards strengthening independence of the
Armenian judiciary. It assumed most of the responsibilities of the MOJ in the area of court administration.
However, the CCC has a number of challenging tasks to face if it wants to serve as a truly governing board
of the judiciary. First of all, the CCC should have plenary authority over the administrative affairs of the
judiciary which should be more clearly reflected in the statutes of the CCC. It also needs to organize a
system of Working Committees which would be responsible for developing common policies and
procedures in specific areas of court administration. It needs to develop a system of interaction with
individual courts and chairmen which would ensure implementation of the CCC's decisions in the areas of
court administration by individual judges. It also needs to develop a strategy for interacting with the public,
mass media and other branches of government.
A similar program of institutional building is required for the Administrative Office of the CCC which
carries the main bulk of day-to-day activities deriving from the mandate of the CCC.
(d) Financing of the judiciary and working conditions ofjudges
Not only judges personally, but also the courts as institutions need protection from external pressure, and
for courts to operate independently require appropriate funding -- both sufficient and stable. During the
Soviet period, the court system was considered as the lowest priority of the government in terms of
spending budgetary funds. As a result, budgetary allocations for the judiciary have been extremely
inadequate for proper maintenance of court buildings, provision of supplies and equipment, training, and
the use of computer technology by court personnel. The salaries provided to judges and court staff were
barely adequate -- causing judges to rely upon the generosity of local officials, and occasionally to fall prey
to corruption. Distribution of scarce budgetary resources among courts was the responsibility of the MOJ,
and the courts had no saying in the planning of their expenditures or monitoring the use of the funds.
The reform has introduced some radical changes in the court financing system. Financing of courts, as a
budgetary item, is now separated from the MOJ and law enforcement agencies. Each court has its own
budget line item which is reflected in the budget law. In 1999, the CCC has received exclusive authority to
prepare a budgetary proposal for the judiciary and administer the use of budgetary resources. Judges'
- 6 -



salaries have been significantly increased in early 1999, although their timely payment is still not
guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE).
While these changes are significant improvements in the financing of the judiciary, they also require serious
efforts in building the capacity within self-governing judicial bodies and individual courts to effectively
plan, use and control financial resources allocated for the judiciary.
Working conditions of judges require urgent and essential improvements. This is particularly true for
courthouses. The court buildings, court rooms and offices are generally dilapidated due to lack of
maintenance and upgrading over several decades. During the restructuring and reorganization of the court
system in 1998, newly established courts received buildings which were not constructed as courthouses. A
number of courts occupy the buildings of former schools kindergardens and even apartment buildings.
Hence, internal configuration and design of these courthouses are not suitable for the work of courts.
None of the courts have adequate security systems. Physical security of judges has become a serious
concern which is not yet being addressed. Computer and other technology requirements are extremely
limited. Most of the operations such as writing a protocol during a trial, filing suits, and keeping records
are done manually. Some of the courts do not even have typewriters. Legislative materials and other legal
literature are usually acquired by individual judges at their own expense. Courts do not have libraries or
comprehensive legal databases. Such conditions seriously impair the efficiency of judges' work, as well as
the court as a whole.
S. Legal education
Legal education needs significant improvements. Armenian legal education is still dominated by the
Soviet-style teaching methods and techniques, i.e. heavy focus on legal theory, legal history and
memorization of rules. It does not adequately teach legal problem-solving skills. There are few courses that
deal with issues in actual law practice, such as interviewing and counseling, business planning, negotiations
and pretrial and trial procedure. The curriculum and the faculty structure continue to reflect the public law
priorities of a command economy and society rather than the changed realities of a market-based economy.
Especially needed are courses in the private law disciplines in general and in business-related subjects in
particular, plus development of public law courses related to business regulation.
The Law Faculty of the Yerevan State University (YSU) is the only state law school. YSU law school has
around 600 students (entering class of 120) in its 5-year undergraduate law program. There are between 40
and 80 various private schools that exist, but they are still in the process of development. Another private
law school is the American University of Armenia, founded with assistance of the University of California
and some international donors.
The reforms in legal education will benefit, at the earliest, lawyers who go into practice in the next 3-5
years. Consequently, any serious reform of legal education must take into account and try to reach lawyers
who are currently practicing. Training of lawyers in the form of continuing legal education is especially
important, given that current lawyers must learn a mass of new laws and regulations. Continuing legal
education for practicing lawyers outside of the judiciary and Procuracy has little history in CIS countries.
Yet, the demand for it, especially in commercial law areas, is great.
6. Continuing educationforjudges
The importance of the training and education of judges is recognized in the Concept Paper. The document
differentiates between the "initiating educational" programs and specific training programs for judges. The
- 7 -



issue of intensive training for judges became particularly acute in early 1999 when a new corps of judges
was appointed following qualification exams. About 60% of newly appointed judges were new to the
bench.
According to the Law on the-Judiciary, training of judges lies within the authority of the CCC. The CCC
organized a number of training sessions for newly appointed judges during 1999. In 1999, a new Judicial
Training Center was established under the auspices of the CCC.
The creation of a cost effective judicial education resource center for use by all judges and other court
personnel is an important national objective. Continuing judicial education programs not only enhance the
competency, efficiency, accountability and impartiality of judges, but also seek to cause attitude changes
essential to support judicial reform.
Judicial training programs in Armenia have been receiving significant support from several extemal donors,
including EU TACIS, USAID, Soros Foundation, ABA CEELI, and GTZ. The EU TACIS grant program
(approximately Euro 1.0 million) has been specifically designed to support the start-up activities of the JTC
during the first 18 months of its existence. Despite the availability of donors' funds for judicial education
programs, the work in this area has been primarily focused on organizing short-term training, seminars,
conferences and study tours for judges. Development of a comprehensive strategy for the judicial
education system has been slower than expected.
7. Enforcement of court decisions
Enforcement of judicial decisions has emerged as a particularly difficult issue for the Armenian judiciary.
In the Soviet period, the judicial enforcers (or bailiffs), who were attached to the district level courts, were
engaged mainly in the implementation of civil judgments from the general courts, covering such private
matters as alimony payments (arranging garnishing of wages), labor disputes (ensuring payment of back
wages after illegal dismissal), and conflicts over living space. Bailiffs had very limited experience with
enforcing commercial judgments since most of the judgments called for the transfer of assets from the bank
account of one state enterprise to the bank account of another.
In the course of economic reforms and due to a growing volume of commercial and civil cases handled by
courts, the demand on the services of enforcement agents has dramatically increased. However, the existing
enforcement agencies were lagging behind in this process due to inefficient administrative structures,
shortage of funds and lack of well-trained professional staff.
In an effort to address this problem, the Government undertook reorganization of the enforcement agencies.
Based on the new laws regulating the enforcement of court judgments which were adopted in 1998, a new
structure -- the Service for Enforcement of Court Judgments (Enforcement Service) -- was established
under the supervision of the MOJ. The Service has a staff of about 300 people, which includes the central
department in Yerevan and regional branches in the marzes.
Although the Enforcement Service only became operational in early 1999, it has made considerable
progress in enforcement of court decisions: in 1999 the number of judgments which were enforced with the
involvement of the Service (this does not include voluntary compliance cases) has increased twelve times
compared to the previous year.
Notwithstanding this impressive record, the newly established system requires major improvements and
investments. The legislative framework has certain gaps and inconsistencies. Some efforts on drafting
- 8 -



amendments to existing laws on the enforcement system are already under way; GTZ experts have been
working with the Enforcement Service and the MOJ very actively in this area. The Enforcement Service
needs assistance in completing its organizational structure. Training of the personnel is the greatest priority.
Technological needs and other equipment and vehicle needs are enormous, since certain functions of bailiffs
can only be fulfilled if they have mobility, access to required information, communication devices, etc.
8. Legal profession, advocates, prosecutors, professional associations
The main role of the bar associations in all countries is to regulate the profession through entrance
requirements and the disciplinary system, to provide legal training for its members, and provide legal
service to the community.
In Armenia, the Association of Judges is the most prominent professional organization which currently
includes the majority of sitting judges. The organization has been particularly effective in organizing
training for newly appointed judges, providing legal services to vulnerable groups of Armenian population
and promoting better understanding of law and legal procedures among citizens.
There are three registered Unions of Advocates in Armenia which have been playing an increasingly
important role in ensuring quality of legal services to the population, provision of legal aid and assisting in
legislative drafting. In December 1997, a new association of lawyers was created - Bar Association of the
Republic of Armenia. The Bar Association has as its goals: preparation of the code of professional
ethics; contributing to the improvement of the legislative process; strengthening the rule of law; provision
of professional support to practicing lawyers, organization of seminars and conferences and promoting of
legal publications. There are other NGOs such as the Young Lawyers Association, Union for Law and
Policy, etc. which have been primarily working on dissemination of legal information to the population and
provision of affordable legal services.
Many of the judicial reforms will affect the legal profession, thus it is important that they become
participants and supporters of the reform process. More importantly, an active participation of
non-governmental organizations of lawyers and judges in monitoring the legal profession as well as the
judiciary through establishment of ethical standards and effective disciplinary system will eliminate the
remaining supervising role of the executive organs over the judiciary, which would in turn strengthen the
independent status of the judiciary vis-a-vis the executive branch.
9. Legal information
One of the fundamental elements of the rule of law is that in order to expect people to abide by certain rules
contained in laws and other normative acts, the texts of these rules need to be easily accessible and
available to people. This is especially important for judges whose task is to implement and enforce these
rules. Unless they have access to all normative acts, they cannot be expected to properly perform their job.
There is no comprehensive system of codification of laws, other normative and administrative regulations in
Armenia. There have been several attempts to develop a classificator for laws, but the work did not cover
all the legislative and normative acts, and has never been fully completed.
Another issue that needs to be urgently addressed is the establishment of a legal database which would
facilitate systematization and dissemination of legal information to judges, other legal professionals and the
public, and which would facilitate legal research. Currently, there are several private "Nexus-type" legal
databases, based upon a "key word search" method. These databases are used by some legal practitioners
-9-



and by a very limited number of Government agencies and judges.
There is no established mechanism for dissemination of information -- such as court decisions, resolutions
of the Cassation Court, the CCC, court statistics -- between courts. Resolutions of the Cassation Court
and of the CCC are sporadically printed in the bulletin of the Association of Judges in limited numbers, or
faxed to individual courts. Court decisions are not published and are therefore not accessible to the
judiciary or public at large.
10. Public trust in the judiciary, public attitude to laws and legal order
In Armenia, the respect for the judiciary among the public is critically low. People do not trust the courts
system and therefore avoid it. A survey of public attitude and public awareness of laws and legal
proceedings was conducted in December 1999-Janury 2000. The survey was financed by the PHRD Grant
and its results and conclusions have been used in designing interventions under the Public Awareness
component of this project.
The survey results have demonstrated that courts, prosecutors' offices and tax inspections are evaluated at
the lowest performance scale among the governmental bodies. Courts and prosecutors' offices are
perceived as being corrupt and partial. Even in emergency situations, 36% of respondents said, they would
turn to private individuals or local officials for settling their legal disputes, and not to courts.
An overwhelming majority of respondents have attributed low quality of laws to ineffectiveness of the legal
system in Armenia. 42% of respondents characterized the Armenian laws as protecting primarily the
interests of wealthy people. Almost all focus groups believed that Armenian laws were not equally
enforced for all social groups. Respondents representing government agencies and law enforcement
authorities also emphasized poor quality and inconsistencies of laws and other regulations.
Equal access to justice appears to be constrained for certain groups of the population. Although the right
for legal protection is guaranteed by the Constitution for all citizens, 17% of respondents of the survey
have mentioned high fees for court and legal services, particularly for private attorneys, as a barrier to
using courts. Several NGOs, including legal professional organizations, have been actively involved in
providing free legal aid to vulnerable groups of the population over the last five years. However, there is
no state-supported comprehensive system of legal aid in Armenia. Neither is it customary for private
lawyers to do pro bono work for the poor population.
Another critical problem in this area is lack of accessible information about citizens' legal rights and
obligations, forms of dispute resolution mechanism, legal proceedings and enforcement. Printed legal
materials are either not accessible (e.g. government orders, ministries' ordinances and regulations) or not
affordable for ordinary citizens. In the area of civil litigation, courts do not provide information to citizens
or companies on procedures how to file complaints, pay court fees, involve witnesses, etc. Sample forms
and blanks are not available to litigants. Instead, citizens have to make appointments with a judge for
pre-trial meetings; as a result, judges spend way too much time on providing routine information on court
procedures and discussing jurisdictional issues with litigants, tasks which should be performed by judges'
assistants.
- 10-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The preparation phase of the project has invested in sector assessment, technical studies, and coalition
building in all major areas of judicial reform, and conducted surveys of public opinion and awareness of the
reform process. In early 1998, the Bank team carried out a Judicial Sector Assessment which outlined, inter
alia, specific proposals on the structure of judicial institutions, court administration, status and
appointment of judges, and judicial training. The work on the Judicial Sector Assessment has started an
active policy dialogue between the Armenian Government and the judiciary and the Bank in the area of
legal and judicial reform, with particular focus on strategic choices of the reform process, phasing of
reform activities and the Bank's involvement in supporting the reform program. Further to this, three major
assessments have been conducted with financing under the PHRD Grant: (i) an assessment of the court
administration and case management systems in Armenia: (ii) an assessment and feasibility study for the
rehabilitation of court houses; and (iii) a public opinion survey. An assessment of the system for
enforcement of court decisions and a masterplan for the JTC were completed with SATAC II funds.
Based on this preparation work and extensive consultations with the Government and representatives of the
judiciary, the following sector issues are targeted by the project: (a) strengthening of judicial
self-governance and institutional capacity of the judiciary; (b) increasing efficiency of courts through
improved court administration and case management procedures and court automation; (c) upgrading and
rehabilitating court houses; (d) development of an institutional base for continuing judicial education; (e)
improving enforcement mechanism for court decisions; (f) supporting systematization and codification of
legislation and improving access to legal information; and (g) increasing public awareness of legal rules
and proceedings, protection of citizens' legal rights and their knowledge of the ongoing reforms. The
Government has submitted to the Bank a Policy Letter stating the Government's commitment to
continuing the judicial reform in the country, outlining the current priorities of the reform process and
the areas selected for the support through the Project (Attachment to Annex 2).
(a) Strengthening of judicial governance and institutional capacity of the judiciary
It is difficult for courts anywhere to have power and prestige without also possessing institutional
independence and a separate corporate identity. Institutional independence calls upon the judiciary to
govern and manage itself without interference from the other branches. The Armenian courts gained a
structural starting point to build an effective administrative component when the CCC was established by
law and when the CCC proceeded to delineate by regulation the duties of the head of the Administrative
Office and the supporting office. Nevertheless, both these bodies have not yet completed developing
operating structures for ongoing day-to-day administrative leadership and support that characterize
successful court systems.  In sum, the pressing need in the Armenian courts is to fashion a full
administrative infrastructure to support the basic outline already in place.
The project will support provision of technical assistance in organizing the CCC as a governing body,
training of its members and staff, and publication of the CCC newsletter. Assistance to the Administrative
Office will include technical assistance for organizational development of this body, training of its staff and
automation of its main administrative functions. The project will also support enhancing the role of judges
in judicial self-governance through judicial conferences and technical assistance in the development of
ethical standards for the judiciary and evaluation of judicial performance models.
- 11 -



(b) Increasing efficiency of courts through improved court administration and case management
procedures and court automation
Underdevelopment of court administration and case management system puts an additional pressure on
judges and therefore reduces the efficiency of courts. Delays and backlogs are now commonplace in
Armenia, especially in criminal cases. This is due to ineffective allocation of human and technological
resources in the court system, absence of modem practices and techniques for case management,
maintenance of records and collection of statistics. Judges spend a lot of time resolving administrative
problems and performing routine clerical matters because courts do not have professional court
administrators, adequately trained assistants, clerks and registrars who could and should perform these
functions. Efficient use of judges' time have major fiscal implications for the judicial system: there are
always attempts to deal with case overloads by increasing the number of judges which, in turn requires
additional budgetary resources, space and court personnel. The program supported by the project aims at
development of a modem court administration system, with a particular focus on court financing; efficient
allocation and use of court resources (i.e. judges, administrators, registrars, assistants and other personnel);
and design of the reliable and meaningful statistical information system.
The project would also assist in the development of an effective case management system which would
ensure timely and effective processing of cases by the judicial system.
Few Armenian courts are automated. The situation in courts outside of Yerevan is much worse, where even
typewriters are not always available. To support court management and enhance the flow of information to
decision-makers, it is important to provide courts with some form of automation as quickly as possible. The
use of computer technology would significantly improve access of judges to electronic legal information as
well. Although the project does not aim at carrying out a complete automation program for Armenian
courts, it will provide an initial investment for what will eventually become a nationwide network for
Armenia's judiciary. The project will provide computer equipment, software and technology for courts of
general jurisdiction for the purpose of legal research, centralized case docketing, maintaining statistical
records, transmitting decisions, providing electronic mail, and introducing case management.
(c) Court infrastructure rehabilitation
The project will assist the Government with rehabilitation and reconstruction of court buildings. The court
facilities currently available to many first instance courts are in deplorable condition. For a variety of
reasons, these facilities received little or no maintenance and repair during the past decades. In addition, a
number of court facilities were destroyed or severely damaged by the 1988 earthquake, and have not yet
been replaced or adequately repaired. As it has been repeatedly emphasized by the Government and judges
themselves, unless the conditions of court buildings are improved considerably, there is a risk that many
initiatives of the judicial reform program would not bring visible results and credibility, and public
confidence in the reform process would not be secured.
Based on a comprehensive inventory and needs assessment of courthouses carried out with the financing
under the PHRD Grant, and consultations with the CCC and the MOJ, the rehabilitation program has been
designed in the following way. First, the purpose of the rehabilitation program would be not only to
improve working conditions for judges and court personnel, but to reflect objectives and achievements of
the judicial reform in Armenia in the design and construction of court buildings: e.g. to enhance security of
judges and users of courts, to ensure more efficient planning and configuration of court facilities; to
accommodate new functions of court personnel (e.g. court administrators, judges assistants, etc.), to
provide adequate space and accommodations for the public, etc.
- 12-



Twenty courthouses have been selected for rehabilitation under the project, based on their location, number
of judges, volume of cases and required rehabilitation needs. This would represent about 50% of court
buildings in Armnenia. (The list of selected courthouses is included in Annex 2). Among them, 13
courthouses would be rehabilitated in order to meet certain minimum standards for an adequate and
functional courthouse. Seven courts have been selected as pilot courts which will be rehabilitated to meet
enhanced standards of a courthouse. These court houses are expected to demonstrate the examples of
modemized courthouses which serve the objective of an independent, transparent and efficient judiciary.
(d) Training of judges and court personnel
The need for training of the sitting judges as well as court personnel has been identified as a priority in the
reform of the Armenian judicial system. An institutional capacity to cater for these training needs, however,
does not exist. Only some ad hoc training has been provided (including overseas training tours), mostly
with external donor support. The new Judicial Training Center still lacks an organizational and
management structure, design of training courses, curriculum and faculty. Although the premises of the
Cassation Court have been provided for the Center, it presently does not have any specialized equipment,
library or teaching materials.
The JTC is at the very initial stage of its development. It currently has five people on staff, including a
full-time Director. The Center is using the premises of the Cassation Court and it also receives some
administrative and logistical support from the Administrative Office of the Cassation Court. The priority
tasks faced by the JTC are the following: (i) to develop a long-term strategy for judicial education which
would define objectives and standards for such education, training methodology and techniques; interaction
and cooperation with regional and international educational centers, performance indicators for regular
assessment of the judicial education programs, etc.; (ii) to establish an organizational and management
structure of the Center; (iii) to develop training curriculum; (iv) to identify trainers and lectures and
organize training of trainers; (v) to design different training programs for judges, court administrators,
judicial assistants, etc.; and (vi) to equip libraries, laboratories, computer classes and organize printing and
distribution of teaching materials.
Thz Bank has provided initial support for accomplishing the above-stated goals through financing the
preparation of a master-plan for the JTC with the funds of the Second Structural Adjustment Technical
Assistance Credit (SATAC II). The plan was completed in early 2000 and has been provided to the
management of the Center, the CCC and to the MOJ.
The project would assist in: (i) formulating a strategic concept of continuing judicial education in Armenia;
(ii) support in the development of the JTC's organizational and management structure; (iii) curriculum
development for certain training subjects; and (iv) provision of specialized equipment for the JTC.
The design of the component has been prepared based on the analysis of a training needs assessment
conducted by the ABA CEELI office in Yerevan, preparation work for the JTC financed under SATAC II,
and assessment work done by the EU TACIS. The team has been closely coordinating its work with EU
TACIS which has approved a grant approximately equivalent to Euro 1.0 million for the institutional
support for the JTC.
(e) Enforcement of court decisions
The current status of the newly established Enforcement Service has been described in Section B.2.
- 13 -



Training of new bailiffs has been emphasized by the Armenian authorities as the first priority in this area.
Although most of the staff of the Enforcement Service have legal education, they are lacking knowledge of
current specific legal provisions, good insight into the overall legal framework in which they operate,
experience and skills in the new functions imposed on the Enforcement Service, particularly in the area of
enforcement of commercial judgments. The issue of specialization among bailiffs also needs to be
addressed.
The project would assist a newly established structure in the areas of capacity building, training of
personnel, and provision of equipment.
(f) Legal information
There  are  several important dimensions  to  the  legal information  framework: classification,
registration/collection, dissemination to government entities, courts and the public, and publication. In
Armenia, all mentioned areas need significant improvements in order to develop a new legal information
regime that can support ongoing legal and judicial reform in the country.
The project will provide assistance in: (i) strengthening institutional and operational capacity of agencies
responsible for maintaining authoritative texts official legal materials, their systematization and
codification; (ii) developing Government strategy for facilitating competitive and effective dissemination of
legal information; and (iii) improving access to essential legal information by judges and other legal
professionals.
(g) Public education and public awareness campaign
The survey results have revealed that the public has very limited knowledge of the existing laws and legal
proceedings in Arrnenia, does not trust the courts and law enforcement agencies and is barely familiar with
the reform process in the legal and judicial area.
Unless this negative attitude changes and until the public trusts and respects the judiciary, it will not use the
court system and could resort to extra-judicial means, often illegal, to resolve disputes. A meaningful
judicial reform needs to focus, as one of its priorities, on educating the public and challenging its attitudes
to the law and legal institutions. A series of interventions is designed under the Public Awareness
component under this project to contribute to the above task, including development of a comprehensive
public relations strategy for the judiciary, support for specialized TV and radio programs addressing the
issues of legal/judicial reform, seminars and lectures for the population in marzes on legal protection of
individual and property rights, and publication of popular brochures on legal issues.
The project will also address the issue of building communications skills within the judiciary.
Accountability and transparency of the judiciary cannot be achieved without public access to the
information on court decisions and other aspects of the courts' work. Community understanding and
acceptance is at the heart of effective performance of the judicial function. For this purpose, the CCC will
be provided assistance in establishment of a separate structure responsible for dealings with mass media,
the government offices and interactions with the public.
The project will also invest in journalism training. A knowledgeable press is the primary (and perhaps only)
way a community can learn what the courts are doing. Often the press faces the problem of simply
understanding a court decision which is long and technical, and can be difficult even for knowledgeable
lawyers. But even when the press overcomes such technical problems -- and presents a case in a
comprehensive manner, it must address the fact that the community is not interested in the case's legal
- 14 -



technicalities but rather its political, social, economic, or other significance. To respond adequately to these
issues, journalists do require some kind of special knowledge.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
indicative         Xank-         % of
f          Component                   Sewr          Cos#t      % of    financing   Bank-
______________________M T_       .                        (U"I$)   financing
A. Strengthening Institutional    Institutional        2.63      21.6       2.63      23.1
Capacity of the Judiciary          Development
Judicial governance
Court administration
Case management
Court automation
B. Court Infrastructure Rehabilitation   Institutional  6.46      53.0      5.66      49.6
* Rehabilitation and refurbishing of  Development
seven pilot courthouses (including
construction of one new building)
Rehabilitation of 13 courthouses
Development of new design and space
planning
standards (including security
standards) for the construction and
rehabilitation of courthouses
C. Training of Judges and Court    Institutional       0.53        4.3      0.53       4.6
Personnel                          Development
* Institutional support to the
JTC
Curriculum development and
provision of equipment
D. Improving the Enforcement of Court Institutional    0.59        4.8      0.59       5.2
Decisions                          Development
Institutional strengthening of
the Enforcement Service
Training of Enforcement Service staff
Automation of the Enforcement
Service
- 15 -



E. Dissemination of Legal Information   Institutional       0.69        5.7        0.69        6.1
* Assistance in codification          Development
and systematization of laws;
. Development of an electronic
database for maintaining authoritative
text of official legal acts
Development of a strategy
for facilitating pnvate and competitive
dissemination of legal information
* Provision of essential legal materials
to courts
F. Public awareness and public        Institutional         0.75         6.1       0.75        6.6
education                             Development
* Development of a PR strategy for the
judiciary
* Dissemination of legal information
through television and radio programs,
seminars and brochures
Journalist's training
Public opinion surveys
G. Project Management                                       0.55         4.5       0.55        4.8
Total Project Costs                       12.20      100.0      11.40       100.0
Total Financing Required                        12.20      100.0      11.40       100.0
I/ Costs are based on base cost plus ten percent contingencies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A policy dialogue initiated by the Bank during carrying out an assessment of the judicial sector in
1997-1998, and continued in the course of project preparation, has already produced a significant impact
on carrying out the judicial reform in Armenia. The recommendations set forth in the Bank's assessment
report have been largely incorporated in the newly adopted laws on the judicial system in Armenia. Mhe
Project is expected to provide significant contribution to several areas of the judicial reform:
(i) the court administration reform;
(ii) reform of court financing;
(iii) development of a new strategy of continuing judicial education; and
(iv) reform of the enforcement service.
The Project also has a strong focus on strengthening the institutional capacity of judicial bodies, including:
(i) the Council of Court Chairmen - in the area of judicial governance and court administration;
(ii) the Administrative Body in the area of court financing and general administration;
(iii) the Enforcement Service; and
(iv) the Judicial Training Center
- 16-



3. Benefits and target population:
The main project benefit would be a reformed judiciary which administers justice fairly and impartially and
which is accessible and well regarded by the government and the general public. The proper functioning of
the judicial system is of immense importance for the development of private sector. Both domestic and
foreign investors are looking for legal and judicial system where property rights, contractual arrangements
and other lawful actives are safeguarded and respected, free from arbitrary governmental action and from
pressure by special interest groups or powerful individuals. Judges are expected to benefit from the project
in many respects, specifically, in terms of enhanced professional training, administrative independence and
security, improved working conditions and better access to legal information, etc. General public would
benefit from a fair and professional justice which would guarantee an adequate protection of their legal
rights and freedoms, promote economic development and would contribute to a stable economic and
political environment in general. Legal professionals would benefit from improved court services and
improved access to legal information.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The CCC and the MOJ will be the two leading entities responsible for project implementation. The Bank's
experience in the area of judicial reform indicates that the judiciary should oversee judicial reform project
management to prevent a conflict with the principle of judicial independence and to promote ownership. In
this respect, the CCC is uniquely positioned to provide such leadership in project implementation.
However, the executive support is essential in judicial reform projects both to support their implementation
and to provide post-project funding for their continuation. The MOJ has demonstrated an interest and
active support to the proposed project. Besides, certain components of the project, such as enforcement of
court decisions and codification/systematization of laws fall under jurisdiction of MOJ and would be
primarily implemented by it.
The project team clearly recognized during the preparation stage that implementation arrangements would
have to be carefully designed to avoid potential tension and/or competition between the two agencies. In
order to address this issue, a Project Steering Committee comprising the Chairman of the CCC and the
Minister of Justice was established for coordination of project preparation activities. In addition, Working
Groups have been established for all six components of the project. Three Working Groups-- for the
Judicial Governance, Court Rehabilitation and Training components -- are chaired by judges who are the
members of the CCC. Two Working Groups -- foi the Enforcement of Court Decisions and Legal
Information components -- are chaired by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice. The Working
Group (Advisory Board) for the Public Awareness component is headed by the Chairman of the
Constitutional Court. The established arrangements proved to be very effective. The Working Groups
have actively participated in assessment activities conducted by consultants financed by the PHRD Grant,
as well as in design of particular project interventions.  These arrangements also ensured active
involvement of individual judges in project preparation, as well as transparency of the process (which was
particularly important in the process of selection court houses for the rehabilitation program).
The implementation arrangements for project implementation will be based and will draw on successful
experience of the Working Groups. The Project Steering Committee will be transformed into Project
Administration Council (PAC) which is now mandated for all World Bank projects pursuant to the recent
GOA resolution. The PAC will be chaired by the Minister of Justice and consist of nine members,
including one from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, one from the Prime-Minister's office, the head of
the Enforcement Service, the PIU Director and three representatives of the judiciary, including the
Chairman of the CCC. The PAC will be responsible for policy decision making, monitoring overall
- 17 -



implementation of the project, final tender evaluation, annual planning. The Working Groups will provide
specialized/professional input into implementation process of particular components. They will be primarily
responsible for drafting and clearing TORs, as well as providing inputs and supervising the work of the
consultants. This should ensure full ownership of the Project by the judiciary and the MOJ.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by the Project Director, has been established under the PAC
and will be responsible for day to day project management. The PIU consists of technical specialists in the
area of procurement, financial management, accounting, and architecture. The PIT Director is a member of
the PAC.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: Responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with
the newly created Project Implementation Unit (PIU). A financial management specialist (accountant) is
employed by the PIU. During Negotiations, a time-bound financial management action plan was agreed to
remedy existing deficiencies. More information on the project's financial management arrangements and the
project's flow of funds is found in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Management-oriented PMRs will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The formats of the PMRs (Cash Model) were agreed during Negotiations and are
included in the Operational Manual. The PIU will produce a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending on March 1, 2002. However, the PMRs
showing the project's sources and uses of funds (PMR IA) and the project's Special Account Statement
(PMR 1 E) will be produced from project effectiveness and the four procurement management reports
(PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be produced within six months of project effectiveness.
Disbursements. Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the
mutual agreement of the Government and the Association and will be considered once the PIU is familiar
with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable
project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by September
30, 2002 (the project's mid-term review).
Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Association and on
terms of reference acceptable to the Association will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost Selection.
Annual audited financial statements of the Project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be extended
from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be
financed from the proceeds of the Credit an incremental operating cost.
- 18 -



INSTITUiTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS OF PROJECT [IMPLEMENTATION
r    Projree Adrtirutstration C5uosurt  i
Chair-     \tio:stl of tust  e
Me.bJeru    Chairnan of rhe Cou.c I
Chairman Judges
Reprsucit.ve of MOJ
R.pioc of MOFPE
Reppresrsut=v- of G(JA Staff
X~________   - ltU Director               |
| ludicial Goocruanee ortiirg GrouFp |          PIU
| Chair:  Chairman  Judges          1    t    Director
FMS Specralist
-Court Infrstructure Rehabititation W -orkiug Group  -`Prcit-r-not Specialist
- i  Architect
Chute:  Ch.,rra.  Judge                          SeRPuCirst
| Judicial Training Wurkiug Group  i
LChasr    Chairmau JudgeC
Enforcement of Court Decisiuns Working Group 
Chair:   Enforcement Service Depart.euo Chief
Legal Information Working Group
Char:   Deputy Minister of Justice
Poblic Awareness A&li-ory Board  I
Chaie:  Chairman of the Coottiti-t.o1iI C,:rr
Membees: Rpeeseotatihcs of the J,dic-ars, M(JJ,
Purlia-rt, and NGOD
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Government of Armenia requested the Bank's financial assistance for supporting its ongoing judicial
reform as early as 1996. At that time, the Bank was providing technical assistance to the Government in the
area of drafting new economic legislation through a number of operations, including the Institution Building
Loan and Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credits (SATAC I and SATAC II). In response to
the above request, SATAC II included a separate component for addressing the most urgent needs of the
legal and judicial reform in the country, and the Bank launched a Judicial Sector Assessment in 1997.
Based on the conclusions of the Judicial Sector Assessment Report and consultations with the Government
and the judiciary, the Bank started the preparation of a free-standing operation in the judicial sector.
As an alternative, assistance to the judiciary through the Public Sector Reform Project (which was initially
planned for the lending program for FYO1) was explored at some point, but it was rejected for timing
reasons. The Government has strongly indicated its preference for a stand-alone operation in the judicial
sector given a complexity of the activities envisaged under the project, variety of beneficiaries and
stakeholders and importance of the timing factor -- the reasons which were accepted by the Bank. Also, a
possibility of expanding the project scope to include other areas of legal reform -- such as legal drafting,
legal education, alternative dispute resolution mechanism -- was explored during the initial preparation
stage. However, it was decided to keep the project focused on the urgent needs of the judiciary which were
strongly supported by the Government.
- 19-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LatestSupoervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
._________________j_____________    (Bankfi4nanced projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Technical Assistance (legal institutional Institution Building Loan  S            S
building component provided foreign
expert assistance in drafting of
commercial legislation)
Technical Assistance (judicial sector   SATAC 1                     S             S
assignments include: study tour for    SATAC II
MOJ officials responsible for
enforcement of court decisions;
provision of 250 publication packages,
each including the newly adopted
Codes, and other recently enacted
legislation to the new judges;
preparation of an assessment report on
Structural Reforms in the Compulsory
Execution of Civil Judgments;
preparation of a master plan for the
Judicial Training Center; assistance to
the CCC and the Administrative Office
with their internal organizational
structure, training needs and future
staffing; assistance with short-term
training needs of newly appointed
judges; provision of equipment for the
courts, CCC and the MOJ.
Public Sector                     Public Sector Reform Project
(planned)
Other development agencies
EU-TACIS                           Support and financing for the
organization and
implementation of a
comprehensive judicial training
program through the
establishment of the Judicial
Training Center, development
of commentaries, and public
awareness.
- 20 -



USAID (IRIS, AMEX, ABA CEELI,  Assistance in drafting of
Chemonics)                          commercial legislation (Civil
Code, securities legislation,
company laws, government
procurement, etc.); assistance in
drafting of judicial legislation
(Laws on Advocates Services,
on the Status of Judges);
short-term training of judges,
court administrators, and
procurators; study tours for
judges, court and Enforcement
Service officials; assistance in
the preparation of qualification
examinations for judges;
continuing legal education for
the Yerevan State University
Law School faculty;
institutional development of the
Bar Association and the
Armenian Judges Association;
assistance to the CCC on court
administration and case
management.
GTZ (Government of Federal Republic Assistance in drafting the
of Germany)                         legislation on enforcement of
court decisions; preparation of
a master plan for the
enforcement scheme; assistance
to the newly created CCC;
provision of equipment to the
Appellate Court on Economic
Cases.
Soros Foundation (Open Society      Publication of new text books
Institute, COLPI)                   for the Yerevan State
University Law School; training
of court administrators;
provision of pro bono advocacy
and other legal services.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
To date the Bank's experience in the area of judicial reform projects have shown that the project will only
succeed if ownership and commitment at the highest levels of Government are in place (see below). The
other important lessons include the following:
- 21 -



(i) A judicial sector review should normally be a pre-requisite for any lending operation in the area of
judicial reform. A comprehensive Judicial Sector Assessment for the Republic of Armenia was carried out
in 1998, and the main conclusions and recommendations of the assessment are reflected in the project
design. In addition, specific assessments in court administration and case management, and judicial
training, have been carried out in order to design specific interventions under the project.
(ii) Coalitions of leaders from the executive, the judiciary, legal profession, the Bar and NGOs form the
most effective foundation for sustainable judicial reform. In Armenia, an initial effort of designing the
judicial reform concept was supported through the State Committee for Legal and Judicial Reform which
represented a wide spectrum of leaders from the executive, the Constitutional Court, the judiciary, the
National Assembly, the General Prosecutor's Office, the legal scholars, and the Yerevan State University
Law School. During project preparation, all major counterparts continued being involved in discussions
with the Bank project team, and amongst themselves.
(iii) Judicial reform in any country is a long-term process. There is a need to prioritize judicial reform
activities in order to avoid overloading the judicial capacity to absorb the necessary changes. During the
preparation of the project, the Bank, the Government and the judiciary have agreed on specific priority
areas of the judicial reform which would be included in the project. Also, a careful planning of the court
administration reform, as the most complex and challenging component of the project has been carried
under the PHRD Grant provided by the Japanese Government.
(iv) Sustainability of judicial reform is linked to developing or strengthening institutional capacity of
judicial institutions. One of the main focuses of the proposed project is an institutional development of the
CCC, its Administrative Office, the Enforcement Service, and the Judicial Training Center.
(v) While comparative law experience is an extremely important source of guidance for legal and judicial
projects, it should be adapted to national legal systems and the particular requirements of the society
concerned. In addition, the benefits from foreign experts who provide a comparative prospective should be
fused with knowledge of the local legal community --knowledge of the language, social norms and the
socioeconomic factors underpinning the country's political structure and legal traditions. This lesson has
been taken into account in designing specific programs under the project, actively using local professionals
in conducting assessments and preparatory works for the project and involvement of judges through the
Working Groups in selecting, using and supervising foreign and local experts.
(vi) Coordination among all concerned development institutions, multilateral and bilateral, is critical. Such
coordination is important to avoid duplication of efforts, ensure consistent advice, and optimize the use of
available resources. During the preparation of the project, the Bank has conducted regular consultations
will all donors involved in the legal and judicial development work in Armenia, including USAID, ABA
CEELI, EU TACIS, GTZ, Soros Foundation, etc. This practice will be continued thorough the duration of
the project. In addition, through developing a new public relations office within the judiciary under the
public awareness component which, among other things, will coordinate with donor agencies, the project
would contribute to a more effective donor cooperation in the judicial sector.
- 22 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Over the last three years, the GOA has made a clear commitment to reforming its judiciary. The initial step
was the preparation of a comprehensive concept which outlined the main directions and implementation
timetable of the judicial reform (Concept Paper). A high-level State Committee on the Judicial Reform was
established for the preparation of the Concept Paper.
In early 1998, the Bank carried out a Judicial Sector Assessment which outlined, inter alia, specific
proposals on the structure of judicial institutions, court administration, status and appointment of judges,
judicial training, etc. The Judicial Sector Assessment has been carried out in a truly participatory fashion,
and the final report has significantly benefited from the input of various individuals and institutions. Even
more important, the major recommendations of the Banks Judicial Sector Assessment were incorporated in
the new legislation governing the judicial system which was enacted in 1998 and became effective in
January 1999.
During that same period, the first blocks of a new institutional framework for the judiciary were laid down.
In July 1998, the Court of Cassation, the highest body of the judiciary, was established. Around the samne
time, a new entity responsible for court administration -- the Council of Court Chairmen -- was established.
The courts of general jurisdiction and appellate courts were formed and staffed in January 1999. A new
Enforcement Service of Court Decisions was established under the MOJ in January 1999. The Judicial
Training Center was created in 1999.
The Government has also demonstrated its commitment to implement the judicial reform program by
adopting a number of measures aimed at strengthening independence of the judiciary. These measures
included introduction of a new appointment procedures for judges which are based on specialized
qualification exams, significant increase of judges' salaries, renovation of some court buildings. The
Government's commitment to further implementation of these measures and to the reform process in
general is confirmed in the Policy Letter provided to the Bank.
As it has been discussed earlier in this report, some structural changes are needed in the Council of Justice
which would further distance the executive branch from the judiciary, particularly in the matters of judicial
appointments, disciplinary proceedings and removal from office. Such changes require amendment to
Constitutional provisions. The Constitutional Amendments Commission (Commission), established by the
President, has prepared elaborate amendments to Chapter 6 "Judicial System" of the Constitution. It is
anticipated that these amendments will be put on the national referendum in Fall of 2000. The prevailing
view is that these amendments are necessary to ensure the consistency between the constitutional provisions
and the new laws on the judiciary enacted in spring of 1998, particularly, with respect to the provisions on
the composition of the Council of Justice, the role of the Procuracy in civil litigation, and on the process of
appointment and removal of judges from the office. More specifically, it is anticipated that these
amendments will change the composition and the functions of the Council of Justice to limit its membership
to judges and independent representatives (e.g. retired judges, legal scholars).
At the beginning of project preparation, the Bank team launched a broad consultation process which
included judges, government officials, members of the Parliament, law professors, legal scholars,
representatives of NGOs and other stakeholders. A workshop organized during the Bank's identification
mission in December 1998 gathered all those representatives together and discussed the strategic goals and
current priorities of the judicial reform process, the objectives and tasks which should be handled by the
project and preliminary design of the project. This was followed up by the establishment of a Project
Steering Committee and Working Groups for each. component for the preparation work. The Project
- 23 -



Steering Committee has been co-chaired by the Chairman of the CCC and the Minister of Justice. Three
Working Groups consisted of chairmen judges and two of MOJ officials. The Working Group members
closely interacted with consultants, hired under the PHRD grant to prepare assessments for various
components. They provided logistical and organizational assistance, as well as intellectual input. Judges
were actively involved in conducting an assessment of the court administration and case management
systems in Armenia. Such wide participation of judges in the project preparation strengthens the
commitment to the project by the judicial community.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Over the last decade, the Bank has extended its developmental mandate to the legal and judicial area, and
has responded favorably to borrowing member countries' requests for technical assistance in their legal and
judicial reforn efforts. This reflects the acceptance by the international development community that an
effective and efficient judiciary, impartial both in fact and reputation, is an essential element of
comprehensive development. This can also be attributed to a unique position of the World Bank, as a
financial institution with a developmental agenda and as a "knowledge bank", to support complex and
long-term reform efforts in legal and judicial areas, to provide "coalition building" support for such reforms
and coordinate assistance between other bilateral and multilateral donors.
The Armenian authorities requested the Bank's support for judicial reform over two years ago. Several
operations (e.g. SATAC I and SATAC II) included small components to address the most urgent needs of
the ongoing reform process. The Judicial Sector Assessment Report, which was discussed with the
Govemment in early 1998 was instrumental in defmning the priorities of the judicial reform process and
identifying the areas of assistance for the proposed project, as well as for intervention of the other donors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
9' Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
C Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Development of an independent and efficient judiciary has a direct relevance to the proper functioning of
the economy and the conduct of economic activities: inability to protect property rights, to enforce
contracts, high cost or unreasonable delays in such enforcement hinder the efficiency of economic discourse
and thus have a negative impact on the economic development of a country.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable.
Fiscal Impact:
The recurrent costs to maintain the rehabilitated buildings and information technology purchased with
credit proceeds will need to be supported by a suitable Government budget allocation for the judiciary.
3. Technical:
Not applicable.
- 24 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Justice and the Council of Court Chairmen will be the two leading executing agencies.
4.2 Project management:
A PAC comprising of representatives of the Council of Court Chairmen, the Ministry of Justice, the
Ministry of Finance and Economy, and GOA Staff has been established for overall project management
and to provide policy guidance and oversee project implementation activities.
Day to day project management will be the responsibility of the PIU. The PIU will be responsible for the
coordination of all project interventions, and for providing necessary support services (procurement of
goods and services, financial control, monitoring of project activities, preparation of annual work plans,
and reporting on status of project implementation).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The capacity of the PIU to conduct procurement has been assessed and the project was given an overall
high risk rating. Details of the assessment and an agreed upon plan of actions and findings are included in
Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within Armenia has not been the
subject of a detailed review by the Association. Any weaknesses that may exist in the country's financial
management capacity have been mitigated by the use of a specialized PIU, for project preparation and
implementation, and drawing upon experience of projects of this nature. The main risks related to the
project's financial management system are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff in the PIU. The PIU currently employs a full-time financial management specialist
whose responsibilities include maintaining accounts for the project preparation grant, project accounting,
intemal controls and financial reporting. The PIU accounting staff will be further trained, as needed, and
this training will be provided as a part of the technical assistance for the project.
(ii) Capacity of accounting system to generate the agreed Project Management Reports (PMRs). The PIU
is using an accounting software which is capable of generating the agreed PMRs. The PIU will hire
consultants as required to ensure that the PMRs will be produced starting from the period ending on March
1, 2002.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). The PIU will open and maintain a Special Account
(SA) in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, as well as a transit account in a local
commercial bank. In addition, the PIU will open an account in a local bank, where the Govemment's
contribution will be deposited. These accounts will be managed by the PIU. The total amount held in the
transit account will be limited to the equivalent of $5,000. The SA and transit accounts will be audited
annually and the results made available to the Bank.
The Bank will give special attention to the project financial management risks. The risks will be subject to
a rigorous follow-up during the supervision missions.
- 25 -



5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No major environmental issues are anticipated under the project given the mostly rehabilitation nature of
works to be financed. One court house in Giumri region will be newly constructed.
In order to assist in the selection of the court rehabilitation program, a detailed assessment of court
buildings was conducted to collect information on the existing conditions of the court buildings and on the
improvements needed. The assessment was financed by the PIIRD Grant and was carried out by a local
Armenian firm. During the assessment, no significant negative environmental consequences have been
identified since there are no issues of land acquisition, no areas of historic value or cultural heritage, no
ecologically protected areas, no ground water pumping sites, etc. which are affected by project works.
An Environmental Management Plan is included in the Operational Manual for the Project, and addresses
the issues relating to safety and health standards for construction and rehabilitation works which are
consistent with the Bank environmental assessment guidelines and the Armenia Environmental Impact
Assessment Law of 1995. For the Giumri court house which is located in the earthquake area, preliminary
design and construction plans will be submitted to the Armenia Earthquake Engineering Center for their
review and approval. For this new construction, no environmentally harmful materials will be used, in
accordance with Armenian law. For the rehabilitation works, it is not expected that contractors will
encounter any asbestos containing materials. However, appropriate handling and disposal procedures will
be described in the technical specifications of the works, to allow safe handling and disposal in the event
asbestos is encountered in the course of demolition. In addition, all contracts would contain clauses
requiring the minimization of noise and dust during construction. The Bank would have the opportunity to
verify the procedures through prior review of the terms of reference of the design consultants as well as the
final design documents, including the technical specifications.
The Project will have positive environmental impact because rehabilitation of court houses will lead to
improved security, fire-life safety, accessibility and efficiency standards for court houses.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate'?
The main features of the EMP are: (i) mitigation measures against negative impact of rehabilitation and
construction works, including measures relating to noise and dust during reconstruction works, minimizing
vegetation damage, safe handling and disposal of waste materials, conforming to seismic standards; (ii)
responsibilities for implementing mitigation measures: PIIJ staff, particularly an Architect, and individual
contractors; (iii) monitoring requirements; and (iv) authorities responsible for monitoring and enforcement
activities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable (see in 5.1 above on the
assessment carried out for the court
rehabilitation component)
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 26 -



The assessment for the court rehabilitation component included consultations with judges, Ministry of
Justice, Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Prime Minister's office and parliamentarians. Copies of the
assessment report have been provided to all major stakeholders.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The PIll technical staff, who is an architect, will be responsible for monitoring the mitigation plan. The
supervision missions will follow-up on the appropriateness and success of the mitigation plan to counter
negative environmental impacts (if any). If necessary, remedial actions will be proposed and adopted.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
It has been widely accepted that rule of law, independence of the judiciary, due process, equality and
non-discrimination are becoming central concems of "development discourse". The project, by assisting in
the development of an independent, effective and accessible judiciary, would contribute to addressing the
following social issues in Armenia:
(i) better access of the population to justice: both in terms of physical accessibility (rehabilitation of some
court houses in remote areas, improved reception areas in court buildings), affordability (the project would
finance a study on court fees and proposed forms of legal aid), and gender equity (through better
dissemination of legal information to women, specialized training for judges on gender issues, etc.);
(ii) more effective protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, including vulnerable groups of the
population (through reducing the time for judicial process, achieving more transparency for the judiciary
and eliminating sources for corruption);
(iii) better access for citizens to information about their legal rights and obligations and means for their
protection (several programs under the public awareness component are aimed at this objective); and
(iv) contribution to environmentally sustainable development (the judicial system which effectively protects
property rights and rigorously enforce environmental laws and regulations is critically important for
environmentally sustainable development).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A workshop was held with key members of the judiciary, the legal profession, and the Government at the
identification stage to discuss the policy objectives, design and implementation arrangements for the
proposed Project. As a result, a general consensus was reached on the proposed structure and components
of the project, as well as on the role of different agencies and institutions, and of the judiciary itself, in the
preparation and implementation of the project. This practice was continued during further stages of project
preparation through bilateral consultations with different stakeholders. Furthermore, representatives of the
judiciary, the MOJ and the legal profession are represented in all implementing agencies (e.g., PAC,
Working Committees, Advisory Board) and therefore will be able to actively participate and benefit from
the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Main civil society organizations, involved in the judicial sector, such as the Association of Judges, Bar
Association, Young Lawyers Association, Union of Lawyers and Politologists, were consulted at all stages
- 27 -



of project preparation. Their input was particularly used in designing the judicial training component and
public awareness component of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
An Advisory Board which includes some representatives of NGOs and mass media has been established for
implementing a public awareness component. The Advisory Board will be overseeing social development
aspects of the project and will cooperate with other NGOs and community organizations in performing its
tasks.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Several public opinion surveys and court users surveys will be conducted during the life of the project to
assess social impact of the project components.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
.PWIOL.y                                   Ap0plCSbility
l Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            O Yes El No
E Natural habitats (OP 4.04, HP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   El Yes O No
l Forestry (OP 4.36, G O4.361                                     E Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes N No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   OI Yes IZ No
L Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    El Yes 1 No
C Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes M No
LI Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              El Yes IZ No
I Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.,50. GP 7.50    LI Yes M No
Il Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         Li Yes M No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Environmental Management Plan has been included in the Operational Manual for the project. The
Credit Agreement also requires the Govemment and implementing agencies to ensure that proper mitigation
measures will be taken in the course of reconstruction and rehabilitation of courthouses.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
Key issues for sustainability of the interventions contemplated under the project include: (i) the continued
public support for legal and judicial reform through a long-term program; (ii) adequate funding and
procedures for operation and maintenance of court infrastructure, and (iii) improved institutional capacity
of the newly established agencies (such as the CCC, the Judicial Training Center, and the Enforcement
Service) which will be responsible for the continued implementation of judicial reform.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
|From Outputs to Objective
- 28 -



1. The judiciary does not overcome          M         1. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of
administrative (MOJ) and financial                    the CCC as a judicial self-governing body
(Ministry of Finance and Economy)
control of the executive branch                       2. Introduction of a new budgetary planning and
financial management mechanism for courts
3. Carrying out an assessment of competence
and salary scale for judges and promoting
recommendations on adequate financial
compensation for judges (e.g. separate salary
scale from civil servants)
2. The judicial reform process does not     M          1. Intensive discussions of the reform measures
enjoy consolidated support from the other             and proposed project activities with all key
branches of government, legal                         players in the legislative, judicial and executive
professional community and general                    branches, legal professional community and
public                                                general public
From Components to Outputs
1. The CCC fails to effectively plan and    M         1. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of
carry out court administration reform                 the CCC
2. Preparation of a masterplan for the court
administration reform identifying priorities and
to allocate scarce resources
2. Development of a functioning Judicial    M          1. Assisting in the preparation of a
Training Center is delayed                            comprehensive strategy for the judicial training
and institutional support to the JTC
2. Intensive coordination with other donors
providing assistance to the Judicial Training
Center
3. Reduction of budgetary allocation for    M         1. Discussions and agreement with the
the judiciary as a result of the proposed             Government on required budgetary allocations
credit                                                for the judiciary for maintaining investments to
be financed under the project and to ensure
future sustainability of those investments
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No apparent controversial aspects at this stage.
- 29 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Condition:
(a)    Disbursement of credit funds for equipment for the JTC will be subject to receiving by the
Association a satisfactory evidence that an acceptable organizational and management structure of the JTC
is in place and the JTC has become fully operational.
Credit Covenants:
(b)    The Government will maintain the PIU within the MOJ and the Working Groups (including an
Advisory Board for the Public Awareness component) for project components during the life of the project.
(c)    The Government will open the Project Account by January 31, 2001 and replenish thereafter on a
quarterly basis to cover project expenses from the Government counterpart funding.
(d)    Procurement of goods, works and services for the project will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines, the provisions of the Credit Agreement and as outlined in Annex 6 of the
PAD.
(e)    Not later than November 30 of each year, the PIU will fumish to the Bank the annual program for
the next year, including procurernent and financing plans, and will review these plans with the Bank before
implementing them.
(f)    The PIU will submit to the Bank quarterly Project Progress Reports not later than 45 days after
the end of the quarter outlining progress made in the implementation of each project component, as well as
the problems encountered and how they will be addressed.
(g)    The Government and the Bank will carry out a mid-term review by September 30, 2002, and will
make necessary adjustments in the Project as recommended by the review.
(h)    The Government will prepare, not later that 6 months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the Project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report,
both of which will be reviewed with the Bank.
(i)    By June 30, 2001, the Government will submnit to the parliament an amendment to the Law on the
Judiciary of 1998, providing the CCC with supervisory authority over administrative affairs of courts at all
levels.
(j)    By December 31, 2001, the Government will submit to the parliament a draft law regulating
classification, systematization and registration procedures for Armenian laws and regulations.
(k)    The Government will ensure that proper mitigating measures, according to the Environmental
Management Plan, will be taken in the course of rehabilitation and construction of court houses.
(1)    The Government will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank and have
the financial records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited and submit a certified
audit report to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the
project.
- 30 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Irina L. Kichigina.               Friedrich Peloschek
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
iHierarch  o  bfjecat ives    htt:tw i                            &              _________________
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The proposed project will
support the main CAS
objective, i.e. to foster the
rapid development of the
private sector by promoting
further structural reforms,
strengthening the financial
system and the legal and
regulatory framework.
Development of an
independent, efficient, and
effective judiciary has a direct
relevance to the proper
functioning of the economy
and the conduct of economic
activities: inability to protect
property rights, to enforce
private contracts or high costs
or unreasonable delays in such
enforcement hinder the
efficiency of economic
discourse and thus have a
negative impact on the
economic development of a
country.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The objective of the project is  1. Increased financial and  Survey of public opinion.  Continued GOA comnitment
to assist in the development of administrative autonomy of   Project progress reports.  to market oriented reforms
an independent, accessible and the judiciary          Budgetary allocations for the
efficient judiciary in Armenia                        judiciary.
which is essential to      2. Extent of increase in user
governance, rule of law and   confidence and improved
investment climate,       judicial services
- 32 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
(1) Institutional capacity of   1.1 New organizational and   Project reports and  1.1 Continued GOA and
the CCC and Administrative  management structure of the  supervision            public support to judicial
office improved           CCC is established, and the                          reforms
CCC is fully operational                             1.2 The judicial branch is
given more authority in the
appointment of judges and
disciplinary matters
(2) Improvement of court    2.1 Uniform standards and    Progress reports and
administration and case   procedures for the preparation supervision
management procedures     of court's budget and financial
management of courts are
designed and implemented
2.2 Standards for case flow are
developed and adopted by the
judiciary
2.3 Twenty-one courts are
provided with computer
equipment and technology
(3) Renovated court facilities  3.1 Thirteen court buildings   MOJ              3.1 Adequate budget
which would improve working are rehabilitated        Progress reports and       allocations are provided for
conditions for judges, provide 3.2 Security devices are  supervision            maintenance of buildings.
dignified atmosphere for court installed in court buildings                     3.2 Thirteen courts are
hearings and enhance security and security design standards                     adequately refurbished
for judges, witnesses and  are implemented for 20
litigants                 buildings
3.3 Six pilot court houses are
rehabilitated (and one court
house is constructed) in
accordance with enhanced
design standards and
refurbished
(4) Improved enforcement of  4.1 About 130 bailiffs are  CCC, MOJ               Bailiffs fulfill their functions
court decisions           trained                    Progress reports and       in professional and ethical
4.2 An organizational     supervision                fashion
structure of the Enforcement
Department is finalized
(5) Enhanced professional    5.1 About 110 judges and 60  Surveys               Sustainable training
skills and efficiency of judges court administrators are  Progress reports and  mechanism for judges and
and court personnel       trained                    supervision                court officials is established
5.2 Training programs are
successfully rated by trainees
S.3 The time spent by judges
on administrative and other
routine matters is decreased by
30%
- 33 -



(6) Improved institutional    6.1 JTC's organizational
capacity of the Judicial   structure is defined; trainers
Training Center            are trained; curriculum is
developed; training evaluation
system is set up
(7) Improved access to legal  7.1 Unified classification  MOJ, CCC               Competitive and competent
information by legal       system for laws and        Progress reports and       private sector of electronic
professionals and general    regulations is developed  supervision               legal databases is developed
public                     7.2 An electronic legal
database of the MOJ is
established
7.3 Judges have guaranteed
reliable access to laws and
regulations
(8) Improved image of the    8.1 Increased use of courts by  Progress reports and
judiciary, legally educated    the population by at least 30%  supervision
population and trained mass  8.2 TV and radio programs on
media                     legal and judicial issues are
successfully rated
8.3 About 25 journalists are
trained
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
(1) Strengthening          US$2.6 million             Supervision reports        1.1 Additional legislative
Institutional Capacity of the                                                    changes are adopted to
Judiciary                                                                        enhance judicial governance.
Judicial governance                                                            1.2 New court administration
Court adrninistration                                                          and case management
Case management                                                                procedures are accepted and
Court automation                                                               implemented by judges and
court personnel
1.3 Adequate and reliable
telephone network is in place
- 34 -



(2) Court Infrastructure    US$5.6 million              Supervision reports         2.1 Ministry of Finance and
Rehabilitation                                                                      Economy timely and
* Rehabilitation and                                                                adequately provides the
refurbishing of seven pilot                                                         counterpart funding for the
court-houses                                                                        rehabilitation program
* Rehabilitation of 13                                                              2.2 Enhanced design and
court-houses                                                                        construction standards for
* Development of new design                                                         courthouses are developed,
and space planning standards                                                        endorsed and approved by the
standards (including security                                                       respective authorities.
standards) for construction
and rehabilitation of
courthouses
(3) Improving the           US$0.5 million              Supervision reports         Legislation governing
Enforcement of Court                                                                enforcement of court decisions
Decisions                                                                           is fully developed
- Institutional strengthening
of the enforcement service
Training of Enforcement
Service staff
* Automation of the
Enforcement Service
(4) Training of Judges and   US$0.5 million             Supervision reports         4.1 The judicial community
Court Personnel                                                                     consolidates its efforts
* Institutional support to the                                                      developing a comprehensive,
JTC                                                                               long-term strategy for the
Curriculum Development                                                            judicial training
* Training of Trainers                                                              4.2 The JTC is adequately
Equipment                                                                         staffed and equipped
(5) Dissemination of Legal   US$0.7 million             Supervision reports         An adequate legal framework
Information                                                                         for collection, classification
* Assistance in codification                                                        and dissemination of legal
and systematization of laws;                                                        information is established
maintaining authoritative
texts of official legal acts
* Development of a strategy
for facilitating private and
competitive dissemination of
legal information
. Development of an
electronic legal database
- 35 -



(6) Public awareness and    US$0.7 million            Supervision reports, public    Armenian National Television
public education campaign                             opinion surveys            provides prime time TV air
. Development of a PR                                                            for the project
strategy for the judiciary
* TV/radio production and
airing
* Specialized training for PR
staff and journalists
* Seminars on legal issues for
public in marzes
* Publication of brochures and
books on legal issues
* Public opinion surveys
(7) Project Management    US$0.5 million              Supervision reports        PIU is fully staffed and
operational
-36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.63 million
Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of the Judiciary
This component aims at: (i) development of self-governing bodies of the judiciary (specifically, the CCC
and its Administrative Office); (ii) development of a modem court administration system: (iii) design and
implementation of new case management models; and (iv) automation of courts.
Sub-component A. Judicial Governance
Institutional Strengthening of the Council of Court Chairmen (CCC) and its Administrative Office
During the limited period of its existence, the CCC has adopted its Charter, organized a number of
sessions, took a lead in providing training to newly appointed judges and engaged in other important
activities. However, it still must establish itself as a fully operational, self-governing body of the judiciary.
The CCC needs to (i) fully develop its plenary authority over the administrative affairs of the judiciary; (ii)
organize a system of Working Committees which would be responsible for developing common policies and
procedures in specific areas of court administration (e.g. budgeting and financing of courts, human
resources development, maintaining court facilities, court automation, training of judges and court
personnel, etc.); (iii) develop a system of providing and receiving reports from individual courts and
chairmen; (iv) design a position of a chief executive officer of the judiciary; and (v) develop a strategy of
interacting with the public, mass media and other branches of government.
Accomplishment of these tasks will be supported by the project through the following activities: (i)
provision of technical assistance in organizing the CCC as a governing body; (ii) training for heads of
Working Committees and other staff of the CCC; and (iii) publication of the CCC newsletter or similar
publication accessible to all judges and which covers judicial administrative matters.
At present, the Head of the Administrative Office directs employees reporting to him who are assigned to
oversee the budget, personnel, and training components of the office and supervises directly several other
staff members who work on the generalization of judicial practice program. These staff members appear to
perform largely ministerial functions, e.g. assemble budget submissions or enter personnel information into
a data processing system. They do not appear to have been entrusted with responsibility for suggesting
policy or developing programs in any regular manner to the CCC.
The Administrative Office, in order to fulfill its functions of providing administrative support to the CCC
and continued monitoring of implementation of the CCC's decisions, needs reorganization and training. For
this purpose, the project will finance: (i) provision of technical assistance for organizational development of
the Administrative Office (establishing divisional responsibilities, clear job descriptions, a strategic plan for
the development of the Administrative Office, etc.); (ii) training for the Administrative Office staff in
specific areas, e.g. court financing, court procurement, facilities, case recording, as well as training in
general judicial administration topics; and (iii) provision of necessary equipment and software to automate
the main functions of the Administrative Office.
Enhancing the role of judges in judicial self-governance
- 37 -



The corps of judges now has little to do with the governance of the judiciary. The project would support the
expansion of the role of judges and judges' active involvement in developing accountability mechanisms for
the judiciary. This would be achieved through: (i) conducting a study on evaluation of judicial perfornance
models; and (ii) provision of technical assistance in the development of the Code of Ethics for Judges.
Improvement of the legislative framework for the judiciary
The laws that have provided a legislative foundation for the establishment of the new court system require
further improvement. Active work is underway on the preparation and discussion of certain constitutional
amendments relating to the judicial branch. nd disadvantages demonstrated during the last five-year period,
the role of the Constitutional Court and the Council of Justice in the overall legal system and other systemic
issues. In order to support legislative activities in the area of judicial reform and provide the Armenian
drafters with the advantages of comparative legislative analysis, the project will finance advisory services
and study tours for this sub-component.
Sub-component B. Court Administration
With the reorganization of the Armenian court system in 1997, appointment of new judges in January
1999, and growing demand for judicial remedies over the last couple of years, the judiciary has become
overwhelmed by the new demand for its services. Delays and backlogs are now commonplace, especially in
criminal cases.
The program supported by the project aims at development of a modern court administration system, with a
particular focus on court financing; efficient allocation and use of court resources (i.e. judges,
administrators, registrars, assistants and other personnel); and design of the reliable and meaningful
statistical information system.
The following activities will be financed under this sub-component:
Court financing: (i) design of uniform financial management procedures in courts (budgeting, accounting,
auditing) and design and publication of standard forms and guidelines; and (ii) training of court financial
officers, court chairmen and staff of the Administrative Office in court financing.
Efficient organization of judges and court personnel work: (i) development of job descriptions, standard
recruitment procedures and performance evaluation forms for court staff, including court administrators,
judicial assistants and registrars; (ii) training of court administrators and judicial assistants, particularly in
new areas of their responsibilities; (iii) carrying out a time utilization study; (iv) development of the
Administrative Office' capacity in general management analysis and planning in the judicial system.
Statistics: (i) assistance in re-designing data collection strategies and instruments (under the CCC
leadership); (ii) establishment of the Office of Court Statistics under the CCC; (iii) development of written
instructions for data collection, auditing and reporting; (iv) redesigning docket numbering system and
development of a new classification of cases; and (v) seminars for Chiefs of Staff, registrars and other
court staff in court statistics.
Sub-component C. Case management
The case management system existing in Armenia, while generally adequate at the present caseload volume
- 38 -



and level of complexity, would not conform to the increasing demand for judicial services. Recent court
data shows that expansion of the case volume is already underway. Some courts are beginning to operate at
the margins of their capacity under the present case management system. The number of complex cases will
almost certainly rise as the market economy takes hold and will require a different case management
approach since the present system cannot deal with them adequately.
The project would assist in the development of an effective case management system which would ensure
timely and effective processing of cases by the judicial system. The following activities will be financed: (i)
assistance in developing new civil case management procedures and publication of case processing
manuals; (ii) training of judges and other court personnel in case management; and (iii) designing special
systems and procedures for criminal cases (e.g. case numbering system, expedited issuing arrest and search
warrant, issuing sentencing orders, pre-sentencing reports, information on pre-trial detention, bail policies,
etc.) and publishing of case processing manuals.
Sub-component D. Court automation
A few Armenian courts currently have some automation, especially in Yerevan. For the most part, it is used
to support word processing needs, but in at least two courts, it is being used to do limited case
management.
Assistance in the development of an automation program for the court system would be provided in the
following areas: (i) provision of computer equipment, software and technology to 21 courts of general
jurisdiction, three Appellate Courts and the Cassation Court for the purpose of maintaining statistical
records, transmitting decisions, providing electronic mail, and introducing case management; (ii) computer
training for judges and court personnel; and (iii) carrying out an assessment for the use of other technology
in courts (e.g. audio and voice recording and computer-aided transcription in making courts records; use of
video and telecommunications for video records of court proceedings, depositions).
Project Component 2 - US$5.66 million
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Successful implementation of judicial reform cannot be achieved unless the court facilities reflect the
requirements of the new judicial procedures being introduced by reform, and unless the court buildings are
in a condition that would contribute to respect for the judiciary.
The objective of the component is not to assist in minimal rehabilitation of all court buildings in Armenia
but rather to ensure rehabilitation of court facilities in a way that would make a sound contribution to
overall judicial reform. The task is not only to improve working conditions for judges and court personnel,
but to enhance security, ensure efficient planning of the facilities, provide better access to the courts, ensure
energy efficient use of the building systems, etc.
Currently, the existing court buildings in Armenia are in deplorable condition due to lack of maintenance
during the past decades. In addition, a number of court facilities were destroyed or severely damaged
during the 1988 earthquake. In order to assist in the selection of the court rehabilitation program, a survey
was conducted to collect information on the existing condition of the court buildings and to provide an
assessment of the improvements needed. The results of the study indicate that in most courts, rehabilitation
is essential simply for the courts to function. In others, court rehabilitation has started but works have
ceased due to of lack of funds. In addition, several court buildings share space with the Police and
Prosecutor's function, one of the constraints on judicial independence that the project seeks to end. Based
- 39 -



on this information and taking into account the caseload of the respective courts and the objective of this
component, 7 pilot courts and 13 other regional courts and the Court of Cassation were selected for
inclusion in the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component.
The component will finance:
(i)    Rehabilitation of 6 (six) pilot courts and construction of 1 (one) new pilot court building, both to
meet enhanced standards of security, fire-life safety, accessibility and efficiency. These courts are expected
to demonstrate the functioning of modem courthouses following international standards. They will serve the
objective of the independent, transparent and efficient judiciary. The court buildings included in the pilots
are:
1.    Appellate Court on Criminal and Military Cases in Yerevan
2.    Appellate Court on Civil Cases in Yerevan
3.    Appellate Court on Economic Cases in Yerevan
4.    First Instance Court of Malatia-Sebastia Communities of Yerevan
5.    First Instance Court of Center and Nork-Marash Communities of Yerevan
6.     Shirak Marz First Instance Court - Giumri Court House (new construction)
7.    Lori Marz First Instance Court - Vanadzor Court House
(ii)    Rehabilitation of 13 (thirteen) other non-pilot courts to meet minimum standards for an adequately
functioning courthouse. The other courts are:
1.    Court of Cassation
2.     First Instance Court of Shangavit Community in Yerevan
3.    First Instance Court of Ajapnyak and Davtashen Communities of Yerevan
4.     First Instance Court of Ereboni and Noubarashen Communities of Yerevan
5.    First Instance Court of Arabkir and Kanaker-Zeytun Communities of Yerevan
6.    First Instance Court of Avan and Nor-Nork Communities of Yerevan
7.    Lori Marz First Instance Court -- Stepanavan Court House
8.    Gherkounik Marz First Instance Court -- Sevan Court House
9.    Aragatsotni Marz First Instance Court -- Ashtarak Court House
10.   Ararat Marz First Instance Court -- Artashat Court House
11.   Ararat Marz First Instance Court -- Masis Court House
12.   Tavush First Instance Court -- Ijevan Court House
13.   Armavir First Instance Court -- Echmiadzin Court House
Design, engineering and supervision costs are to be covered under the project. The work will be carried out
by local architects and engineers assisted by international court infrastructure consultants. The existing
designs of the courts for which works have stopped due to lack of funds will be reviewed and improved if
necessary.
(iii)   Supply of modem court equipment and furniture for the seven pilot courts, in order to ensure that
rehabilitated courts are fully operational and are used to their full potential. This component includes
purchasing of goods, including but not limited to, audio, security and fire-life safety devices, bullet proof
glass, metal detectors, modem court room furniture, etc.
(iv)   Development of design standards and comparative analysis of international and Armenian
(according to SNIP) space planning standards. Based on this analysis, a list of Armenian standards for
-40 -



court designs will be proposed. The standards will be based on a clear set of programmatic instructions in
accordance with the new concepts of judicial reform in Armenia. The activity will produce prototype
schematic plans for the various court types in the Armenian system, it will indicate functional relationships
and basic design guidelines and area requirements. This information will constitute a "Schematic Design
Manual" that can be revised based on the experience gained from use of the courts. The Working Group on
Court Rehabilitation will develop clear programmatic instructions for the translation of judicial reform into
physical form.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.53 million
Training of Judges and Court Personnel
This component focuses on providing assistance to the Judicial Training Center (JTC) which was
established in 1999. In this area, the Bank is closely coordinating with other donors, particularly the
program of EU-TACIS. Although the TACIS program is not yet at the implementation stage, it foresees
assistance in: (i) defining training subjects for judges and court personnel; (ii) developing training
techniques and methodologies; (iii) curriculum development; (iv) design of monitoring and evaluation
processes for judicial training; (v) conducting training of trainers program; and (vi) provision of a modest
amount of equipment and teaching materials for the Center.
The project will assist in establishing the JTC tbrough: (i) provision of technical assistance and training for
developing the management structure of the JTC; (ii) organization of a conference with participation of
judges, government officials and representatives of the legal community for the discussion and endorsement
of a strategic approach for the development of continuing judicial education in Armenia; (iii) assistance in
curriculum development (since the TACIS program would not cover all the training subjects within its
curricula development component, the project would focus on selective subjects, e.g. court administration
and case management, communication skills, ethical standards, etc.); (iv) provision of required equipment
for the Center.
Project Component 4 - US$0.59 million
Improving Enforcement of Court Decisions
Without proper and timely enforcement of rendered court decisions due process cannot be ensured. The
previous enforcement system was inefficient; contributing to the low image of the judiciary as a whole. In
the course of the judicial reform, a new system for enforcement of civil judgments has been introduced in
Armenia: a new Enforcement Service was established under the MOJ; the legislative framework
governing the activities of the new service and enforcement mechanism has been radically changed; new
staff have been hired.
This component aims at: (i) institutional strengthening of the Enforcement Service; (ii) professional
development of the Enforcement Service staff; and (iii) automation of the Enforcement Service.
Sub-component A. Institutional Strengthening of the Enforcement Service
Currently the Enforcement Service is a centralized system with Headquarters, Yerevan and Marz offices.
An assessment of the new legislative framework, organizational structure and functions of the new agency
has been carried out with the assistance of German experts financed from SATAC I. The design of the
component takes into account conclusions and recommendations of the assessment report.
The project will support: (i) provision of technical assistance for the organizational development of the
- 41 -



Enforcement Service; (ii) development of case processing techniques; (iii) establishment of the public
relations department and training of its staff; and (iv) advisory services to support necessary drafting.
Sub-component B. Training of Staff of the Enforcement Service
Currently the Enforcement Service employs some 300 bailiffs. The majority of the staff joined the Service
in 1999. Even though most of the new appointees have basic legal education, they lack knowledge and
experience required for carrying out new tasks imposed on the Enforcement Service. Moreover, specialized
training in areas such as financial management or banking is completely lacking. The project will finance:
(i) training of the Enforcement Service staff on issues of substantive law, as well as on ethics and
disciplinary regulations; and (ii) specialized training of selected Enforcement Service staff and managers in
accounting and financial management, banking and finance, international transactions.
Sub-component C. Automation of the Enforcement Service
The Enforcement Service lacks necessary equipment to improve work efficiency. The available computers
are used for simple word processing. The project will finance: (i) provision of computer equipment,
software and technology to the 10 Marz offices, Yerevan office and the Enforcement Service Headquarters;
and (ii) provision of copying, scanning and facsimile equipment to the 10 Marz offices, Yerevan office and
the Enforcement Service Headquarters.
Project Component 5 - US$0.69 million
Legal Information
There  are  several important dimensions to  the  legal information  framework: classification,
registration/collection, dissemination to government entities, courts and public dissemination and
publication. In Armenia, all the mentioned areas need significant improvements in order to develop a new
legal information regime that can support ongoing legal and judicial reform in the country. The project will
provide assistance in: (i) strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of agencies responsible for
maintaining authoritative texts of official legal materials, their systematization and codification; (ii)
developing an electronic legal database; (iii) developing a Government strategy for facilitating competitive
and effective dissemination of legal information; and (iv) improving access to essential legal information by
judges and other legal professionals.
Sub-component A. Strengthening of institutional and operational capacity of the Ministry of Justice
in classification, systematization and collection/registration of legal information
By law, the MOJ is entrusted with registering all legislative and normative acts in the Republic of Armenia.
The Department of Systematization of Legislation of the MOJ is responsible for this function. Presently,
the registration of laws and other legal acts is carried out manually by means of collecting printed texts of
laws and regulations by the Department staff. There is no unified electronic database of laws and
regulations used for registration purposes. The need of such electronic database is obvious: while
privately-developed databases may, over time, emerge as major suppliers of particular types of legal
information to the public or business community, it is important for the government and citizens to have a
complete, accurate, and stable registry of official legal acts as verified by a legally-sanctioned agency such
as the MOJ.
Furthermore, there is no unified classification system operative in Armenia at present. Several different
classification systems are in use by various government agencies and private legal databases, some of them
-42 -



based on the former Soviet-em classification regime. Therefore, large numbers of normative acts in new
files of law (e.g., bankruptcy, securities law, etc.) become increasingly hard for paper-based indexing
systems to absorb. The lack of unified classification for legislation also infringes comparative analysis of
legal acts, and updating of the existing laws and regulations to make them consistent with the newly
adopted ones.
The project will address the above deficiencies through assistance in the following areas: (i) institutional
strengthening and automation of the Department of Systematization of Legislation of the MOJ and
assistance to the MOJ in developing a unified classification system for laws and regulations; (ii) provision
of equipment, software and training for development of an electronic database of all legal and normative
acts operated by the MOJ; and (iii) assistance in the development of an effective legal framework for
classification, systematization and registration of laws in the Republic of Armenia.
Sub-component B.  Development of a comprehensive strategy for effective and competitive
dissemination of information
In order to significantly improve the accuracy and uniformity of legal information and its timely
accessibility to all users -- public and private -- it is important for the Government to develop a
comprehensive strategy of dissemination of legal infornation to specific users and the public in general.
There is a wide range of options concerning the transmission of legal information by the government to
various users -- in both electronic and paper form. The development of a strategy should analyze the role of
information in society, the role of government in fostering the dissemination of such information in society,
the nature and pace of technological and economic changes occurring in the country, and how public and
private organizations and individuals will react to various policy and technical solutions. Such analysis
should also include current financial realities, including government and private sources of investment, as
well as donor funds.
The project will support technical assistance to the Government for the development of such strategy and
its broad discussion with the judicial and legal community in the country.
Sub-component C. Improving access to legal information by courts
The courts are in great need for legal information -- both substantive laws and court decisions. The
explosion of new legal acts in the context of a transition economy has placed severe information demands
on the courts, which is dangerously reliant on paper information that is often quite out-of-date. The
situation is even more aggravated in distant regions where printed information about new laws and
regulations comes very slowly. The courts lack funds for obtaining published codes, commentaries, or even
Official Bulletins published by the government print house. Access to private legal databases is hampered
by huge deficiencies in technology equipment available to courts.
Once a unified electronic database is developed in the MOJ, courts would receive guaranteed and reliable
access to such database. In the meantime, the project will finance provision of essential legal texts to
courts.
Project Component 6 - US$0.75 million
Public Awareness and Public Education Campaign
A survey of public awareness and public attitude towards the legal and judicial system in Armenia was
conducted for the preparation of this component. The findings of the survey served as the basis for refining
-43 -



messages and setting priorities in choosing the programmatic activities for the component. The component
should accomplish a qualitative breakthrough in public attitudes toward the rule of law in Armenia. Among
the objectives of the public awareness component is the information flow to the public at large about
positive new developments and explanation why they are beneficial, or why people should get involved in
the reform process.
The public awareness component will include the following activities to be financed by the credit:
Sub-component A. Development of a comprehensive public relations (PR) strategy for the judiciary
and establishment of a PR office within the CCC
The judicial reform program in Armenia puts a great emphasis on transparency, openness and
accountability of the judiciary.  While many governmental agencies (including the MOJ) and
law-enforcement agencies have their own public relations departments, the Armenian judiciary is lagging
behind in this respect. Courts traditionally have very limited interactions with other government agencies,
mass media, professional organizations or the public. Court decisions or court statistics are not published,
and little information is available about individual judges and their service in the office.
The Project will assist in developing a comprehensive public relations strategy for the judiciary and
building up PR institutional capacity within the CCC as a "designated spokesman" of the judiciary.
Sub-component B. Journalism training
Despite their critical role, Armenia's journalists are not adequately trained in legal issues. As a result,
media coverage of the courts and legal issues is inadequate. The project will finance organization of
journalism training in the following areas: training on specific legal topics; seminar meetings and topical
briefings with leaders of the legal reform process, members of the parliament, politicians, and lawyers to
cover policy related issues; professional skills training; share knowledge and resources in the field of media
coverage of legal affairs; lobby for better access to sources of information and wider coverage of legal
issues in media; conduct discussions of direct problems affecting the coverage of legal issues.
Sub-component C. Dissemination of legal information to the population
The project will support improved access of the population to legal information (including the work of
courts) through the following channels: (i) TV and radio programs; (ii) seminars in local communities
covering such topics as citizens' rights and obligations, means of legal protection, the work of courts,
access to legal aid, etc.; and (iii) publication of popular brochures on legal issues.
Sub-component D. Judicial surveys
The survey conducted during project preparation primarily sought to evaluate the present level of public
awareness and public attitude towards laws and legal institutions in the country, and to design specific
programs under the project.  At least two similar sociological surveys will be conducted during
implementation of the project which will include broader coverage of respondents and focus groups,
particularly, the court users. These follow-up surveys will also be used for monitoring the effectiveness of
the project interventions during its implementation.
Project Component 7 - US$0.53 million
Project Management
- 44 -



Day-to-day project implementation will be carried out by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) located
within the MOJ. The PIU comprises a Director, procurement specialist(s), an FMS specialist, an
accountant, an architect, public awareness component coordinator and some administrative personnel (e.g.
a secretary/translator, driver, etc.). In performing its functions, the PIU will:
- provide technical assistance and support to the Working Groups and other agencies involved in
project implementation;
- carry out procurement for the project activities;
- maintain project accounts and project financial management system;
- disseminate project-related information;
- conduct the project's mid-term review and completion reviews;
- report directly to the PAC on a regular basis; and
- provide information on project implementation and interact with
other govemment agencies, NGOs and the public.
The project will finance operational and logistical assistance to the PIU.
- 45 -



AUG 21 '0O  05:e9PM WORLD BANK ARMENIA                                            P 3Z3
Attachment
,3R";.JE MIN&tS1ER
Deai Ms O'C onnor
The attachld letter describes the Government of Armenia's program of-actions,
objectives asnd policies designed to refbrm thc judicial system of the Rcpublic of
Armenia. We are lookiing forward to IDA's approval of the proposed Judicial Reform
Project in an amount of USO) t 1,4 millioin which would supporr the implemnentation of
said piograln.
Sinc-c-ely,
A. MARGARYAJNI
Ms Judy Q'Con3or
Couuntry Director for Armenia.
Europe and Central AiiaRkegion
Tnternationatl Deyelopment Association
Yoevr.ra, Rpt4>:ic _x &nvlxn



REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Statement of Policy and Objectives of the Judicial Reform
June 2000
A.  Background: Vision and Objectives of the Judicial Reform
1.  In mid 1997, under the leadership of the State Commission on Judicial and Legal
Reforrns co-chaired by the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Constitutional Court,
a Concept Paper of the Legal and Judicial Reform of the Republic of Armenia was
developed (hereinafter the Concept Paper). The Concept Paper stated that the main
objective of the judicial/legal reform program is the establishment of an independent
judiciary that:
(a) plays an important role in the state based on the rule of law and separation of powers
principles;
(b) guarantees development of a free democratic society and protection of human rights;
and
(c) supports effective market relations and private sector development.
2.   The Concept Paper covered a broad range of reform actions in the judicial sector,
including:
(a) reorganization of the court system in Armenia;
(b) reform of the Procuracy;
(c) establishment of a new legislative framework for the judiciary;
(d) transfer of the correctional and penitentiary institutions from the jurisdiction of the
Interior Ministry to the Ministry of Justice;
(e) reform of the service responsible for the enforcement of court judgments;
(f) reform of the Ministry of Justice;
(g) developing a new system ofjudicial training; and
(h) launching public education and public awareness campaigns in the area of legal and
judicial reform.
3.   The Concept Paper has also outlined a phased approach towards implementation of
the reform program: the first phase focusing primarily on enacting new legislation, and
the second phase - creation of new judicial institutions and reorganization of courts.
4.   Since 1997, a considerable progress has already been made in reforming the
judicial system of Armenia. First, a number of fundamental laws have been adopted and
came into force which provided a legislative framework for the establishment of a new
independent judiciary. These laws include the Law on the Council of Justice; the Law on
the Judiciary; the Law on Status of Judges; the Law on Procuracy; the Law on Advocacy;
the Law on Mediation Courts; the Law on Compulsory Enforcement of Judgements; the



2
Law on the Service for the Compulsory Enforcement of Judgments; the Criminal
Procedural Code and Civil Procedural Code. The Law on the Judiciary and the Law on
the Status of Judges introduced a life tenure for judges, adopted new principles of
appointment, disciplining procedures and removal of judges, provided for the creation of
self-governing judicial bodies and secured other important rights and immunities for
judges protecting them from undue influence.
5.  In accordance with the above laws, a new institutional framework for the judiciary
was established:
(a) The Council of Justice (was established pursuant to the Armenian Constitution of
1995) is the body which is entrusted with the appointment and removal of judges and
prosecutors, as well as the disciplinary actions against judges and prosecutors. The
Council of Justice is headed by the President of Armenia with the Minister of Justice
and the Prosecutor General as the two Deputy Chairpersons. It also consists of 14
other members: 9 judges, 2 academics and 3 prosecutors.
(b) A new three layer court system in which the first instance courts of general
jurisdiction hear all criminal, economic and criminal cases was created. The three
appellate courts - the Court on Civil Cases, the Court on Economic Cases and the
Court on Criminal and Military Cases - form the second layer. The highest court
within the new system is the Court of Cassation that considers appeals from the
courts of the first and second instances. The Court of Cassation consists of two
chambers - the Chamber on Criminal and Military Cases and the Chamber on Civil
Cases.
(c) Council of Court Chairmen was established to deal with a wide range of management
and supervisory responsibilities, including administration of courts, developing and
implementing uniform court administration, personnel, budgeting, case management
policies, judicial training, and assessing on an ongoing basis the status of
administration of justice in Armenia. Transfer of these functions from the Ministry of
Justice to this new body which consists of court chairmen and chaired by the Chief
Justice of the Republic of Armenia, demonstrated a true commitment of the
Government to promoting independence of the judiciary.
(d) The new Enforcement Department was established under the Ministry of Justice in
order to improve enforcement of court decisions. The Department has a staff about
300 people, which includes the central department in Yerevan and the regional
branches in marzes. The Government has undertaken a set of serious measures to
provide adequate staffing, necessary equipment and support to the new Department.
Over the last year, a number of enforced court decisions has already rose sharply.
6.   The main challenge over the next few years will be to implement the new laws and
strengthen the capacity of newly established institutions.
B.  Current Phase of the Reform Program



3
The following key elements constitute the current phase of the judicial reform
program in Armenia:
1.   New principles and procedures for selection of judges, conducting disciplinary
proceedings and removal of judges from the office.
The new procedures have been established in the Law on the Status of Judges. In
order to further strengthen independence of judges and transparency in the process of
their appointment and approval, the Government recognizes the need to reduce the role of
the executive branch in the process of nomination of judges, initiating disciplinary
proceedings against them and removal from the office. For this purpose, it is proposed to
change the composition of the Council of Justice to ensure fair representation of judges
and legal scholars in the Council of Justice and elimination of any supervision/overseeing
functions of the Council over courts. The process of conducting qualification exams for
judges will also be further improved to ensure full transparency and professionalism.
2.   Development of new forms of judicial self-governance.
Institutional strengthening of the Council of Court Chairnen (CCC) is seen as one
of the priority measures of the current phase of the judicial reform. In order to fulfill its
functions of administration of the judicial system, the CCC and its Administrative Office
have to become well-organized, sufficiently staffed and equipped structures.
Another important task of strengthening judicial independence is elimination of
influence of prosecutors' offices on courts. The legacy of the past, when prosecutors had
the right to overrule judges' decisions, could initiate criminal proceedings against judges
without any intervention of judicial bodies, and had numerous other means to effectively
influence judges' rulings and actions, has to be overcome. The role of the Prosecutor's
Office in civil litigation has already been significantly reduced and will be eventually
eliminated. The proposed amendments to the Constitution of 1995 also contemplate
elimination of the Prosecutor's Office representation in the Council of Justice. The Law
on the Status of Judges provides that judges cannot be arrested or prosecuted without
consent of the Council of Justice.
3.   Financial independence of courts.
The Government recognizes that the  judicial reform  program  cannot be
successfully implemented if the proposed reform measures are not supported by adequate
funding. The reform has already introduced some radical changes in the court financing
system. Financing of courts is now separated from the Ministry of Justice and law
enforcement agencies. Each court has its budget item which is reflected in the budget
law. In 1999, the CCC has received exclusive authority to prepare a budgetary proposal
for the judiciary and administer the use of budgetary resources. Judges' salaries were
increased in 1999.
However, consistent and reliable financing of the judiciary remains to be a
problem. Recognizing that the reform efforts might fail if the judiciary continues to face
constant budgetary constraints, the Government confirns its commitment to make all



4
possible efforts to ensure sufficient allocations for courts within the state budget which
could realistically satisfy growing needs of the judiciary, including upgrading courts
infrastructure, provision of necessary equipment, financing maintenance costs, supporting
training programs for court personnel, etc.
4.   Accessibility to justice.
An important element of the judicial reform program in Armenia is an improved
access to justice for all groups of the population. Since living standards of the population
have decreased during the transitional period, for many people court fees and high fees
for legal services, particularly for private attorneys, became a barrier to use of courts. The
Government attaches great importance to ensuring equal access of all citizens to justice,
including an establishment of legal aid system in the country. Improvement of public
access to justice should also be ensured through improved court facilities; simplified
filing and registration of cases procedures; improvement in provisions of legal services;
reduction of processing delays; better dissemination of legal information and public
education, facilitated access to justice for vulnerable groups, etc.
5.  High professionalism of judges and court personnel.
The new judiciary cannot be established without a radical change in the level of
professionalism and integrity of judges and other court personnel. A new Judicial
Training Center has been established under the auspices of the CCC to provide continued
education to judges and court personnel. Development of a comprehensive judicial
training program which would become a basis for the work of the Judicial Training
Center is of critical importance. The Govermnent also recognizes that primary legal
education ( at the university level) needs significant improvement. In this respect, it is
equally important to improve and upgrade the curricula and teaching methods and
practices in the Law Faculty of the Yerevan State University, as the only state law school
in the country, as well as to ensure that newly emerging private law schools provide
adequate, i.e. up to the approved standards, education to their graduates.
C.  Bank-financed Judicial Reform Project
1.   To support the on going judicial reform in the country, the Government of
Armenia has requested World Bank's assistance through a stand-alone operation. The
preparation of the Judicial Reform Project (hereinafter Project) started in late 1998 and
the Project was appraised in May 2000. The Government of Armenia received a PHRD
Grant from the Government of Japan which was used for conducting technical studies,
analytical assessments, and surveys of public opinion for the preparation of the project.
2.   The Project consists of seven components:
(i)  Strengthening institutional capacity of the judiciary and increasing efficiency of
courts through improved court administration and case management procedures and court
automation;



5
(ii)  Court infrastructure rehabilitation;
(iii) Training of judges and court personnel (particularly, development of an
institutional base for continuing judicial education);
(iv) Improving the enforcement of court decisions;
(v)  Systematization, codification and dissemination of legal information;
(vi) Public awareness and public education campaign; and
(vii) Project Management.
3.   The project enjoys full support of the Government and the President's Office,
representatives of the judiciary, law faculty, and legal professionals. The design of the
project has been extensively discussed by all the stakeholders and has been prepared-with
very active participation of judges.
4.   The Ministry of Justice and the CCC will be the two leading entities responsible for
project implementation. Project Administration Council (hereinafter PAC) which is now
mandated for all World Bank projects has been established. The PAC will be chaired by
the Minister of Justice and consist of eight members, including one from the Ministry of
Finance and Economy, one from the Prime-Minister's office, the Head of the
Enforcement Service, the PIU Director, and three representatives of the judiciary,
including the Chairman of the CCC. The PAC will be responsible for policy decision
making, monitoring overall implementation of the project, final tender evaluation, and
annual planning.
5.   The Working Groups, chaired by judges and MOJ officials, will provide
specialized/professional input into implementation process of particular components.
They will be primarily responsible for drafting and clearing TORs, as well as providing
inputs and supervising the work of the consultants. This should ensure full ownership of
the Project by the judiciary and the MOJ.
6.   A Project Implementation Unit, headed by the Project Director, would be
established under the PAC and would be responsible for day to day project management.
D.  Other support
1.   The Government of Armenia has engaged other international donors in supporting
its program for legal and judicial reform:
(a)  USAID (through IRIS, AMEX, ABA CEELI, Chemonics) has provided assistance in
drafting of commercial legislation (Civil Code, securities legislation, company laws,
public procurement, etc.); assistance in drafting of judicial legislation (Laws on
Advocates Services, on the Status of Judges); short-term training of judges, court
administrators, and procurators; study tours for judges, court and Enforcement Service
officials; assistance in the preparation of qualification examinations for judges;
continuing legal education for the Yerevan State University Law School faculty;
institutional development of the Bar Association and the Armenian Judges Association;
assistance to the CCC on court administration and case management.



6
(b) EU-TA CIS has provided grant funding to support and financing for the organization
and implementation of a comprehensive judicial training program through the
establishment of the Judicial Training Center, development of commentaries, and public
awareness.
(c)  The Government of Federal Republic of Germany has provided assistance in
drafting the legislation on enforcement of court decisions; preparation of a master plan
for the enforcement scheme; assistance to the newly created CCC; provision of
equipment to the Appellate Court on Economic Cases.
(d) Soros Foundation (Open Society Institute, COLPI) has supported publication of
new textbooks for the Yerevan State University Law School; training of court
administrators; provision ofpro bono advocacy and other legal services.
(e)  The UK Department for International Development is providing support for
provision of pro bono advocacy and other legal services.
The Bank-financed Judicial Reform Project has been designed in close cooperation
with the above donor organizations, in order to maximize the use of donor funds for
implementation of core reform measures.



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Projet Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $mihon
A. Judicial Governance                                    0.06          2.40         2.46
B. Infrastructure Rehabilitation                          2.90          2.10         5.00
C. Judicial Training                                      0.10          0.40         0.50
D. Improving Enforcement of Court Decisions               0.05          0.50         0.55
E. Legal Information                                      0.00          0.64         0.64
F. Public Awareness Campaign                              0.24          0.47         0.71
G. Project Management (PIU)                               0.40          0.15         0.55
Total Baseline Cost                                       3.75          6.66        10.41
Physical Contingencies                                                              0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.15          0.84         0.99
Total Project Costs              3.90          7.50        11.40
Total Financing Required               3.90         7.50         11.40
-46 -



Annex 4
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
NOT APPLICABLE
-47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Years Ending
12131
Year I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.1       0.2        0.2       0.2        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0       0.1        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.0       0.1        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        1.8       2.2        3.8       3.5       0.0       0.0
Government                0.2        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.2       1.9        2.3        3.9       3.6       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Procurement
Civil works and goods under IDA-financed components shall be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants' Services financed from the proceeds of
the credit shall be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposal will be used. A project
launch workshop will be held in November 2000.
1. Civil Works
Civil works for two of the pilot courthouses (Yerevan Appeals Court and Giumri) estimated to cost
US$600,000 equivalent or more will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The
approximate aggregate amount is US$1.35 million. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for
the remainder of the courthouse infrastructure rehabilitation, estimated to cost less than US$600,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$2.94 million. Four of the eleven NCB procurements will be comprised of lots
in order to capitalize on timing and geographic proximity. Since there are no large or complex work
contracts in this project the qualification method will be post qualification.
2. Goods
Goods (approximately US$2.7 million) consisting of courtroom and office fumiture, computer and office
equipment, as well as training materials and supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and considering
project objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of
procurement will be followed:
(i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts above $100,000
equivalent for a total amount of approximately US$2,189,000 million.
(ii) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for the procurement of courtroom and office
furniture equipment and software for an aggregate amount of approximately US$407,000. The PIU
will obtain at least three quotations from two different countries.
(iii) National Shopping (NS). These procedures, by obtaining at least three quotations from national
firms, will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate
amount of approximately US$126,000.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services and Training (including study tours) will be packaged to combine related
skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the
number of contracts to be managed by the PIU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for contracting consultant
services relating to design and technical specification preparation for pilot courthouses, design and
implementation of a new court administration system and large assignments related to the public
awareness. Approximate aggregate amount US$2.14 million equivalent.
-49 -



(ii) Consultant Qualification (CQ) (below US$100,000) procedures will be used for contracting
services related mostly to the infrastructure rehabilitation component (expertise, design and technical
specifications) and also for development of legal brochures and radio program production and
assistance in curiculum development and training in computers and financial systems and legal
information components. Approximate aggregate amount US$1.27 million equivalent.
(iii) Individual Consultants (IC) will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be used for specialized technical assistance in legal drafting, construction
supervision, and other small assignments.  Consultants will be selected based on individual's
qualifications and with the Bank's prior approval. Approximate aggregate amount US$150,000
equivalent.
(iv) Least-Cost Selection is envisioned for only one package for international construction supervision
for all the courts. The value of the contract is approximately US$210,000.
(v) Two Architectural Design Competitions will be held for the "Center" and "Giumri" courthouses
owing to the fact that they are in historic locations and of great importance. It has been agreed that the
Bank would review the RFP's used for conducting both design competitions to bring them in line with
the principles of the Bank Guidelines and with widely used procedures for architectural design
competitions by such institutions as the ALA and UNESCO. It has been agreed that the Bank would
pay the prize money of the winning architectural firm. The Government will be responsible for funding
any other costs that may be associated with organizing the competition
4. Incremental Operating Costs
The PIU staff salaries, office materials and supplies, communication and fuel expenses will be financed
under the Credit for the duration of the project (US$530,250) while office space will be provided by the
Government as a contribution to overall operating expenses.
5. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in Development Business by October 31, 2000 at
the latest and will be annually updated. For large-value consultant contracts, invitation for bids will be
advertised in Development Business and a national newspaper, and in the case of NCB procurements, in a
major local newspaper.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method_
Expenditure Category         ICBCB B                Mehd              N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                         1.49          3.27          0.00          0.00         4.76
(1.35)        (2.94)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.29)
2. Goods                         2.20          0.00          0.53          0.32         3.05
(2.20)        (0.00)       (0.52)        (0.00)       (2.72)
- 50 -



3. Services                         0.00           0.00           3.86           0.00           3.86
____________________  (0.00)      (0.00)         (3.86)         (0.00)        (3.86)
4. Project Management               0.00            0.00          0.53           0.00           0.53
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.53)         (0.00)        (0.53)
Total                            3.69            3.27          4.92            0.32         12.20
(3.55)         (2.94)         (4.91)         (0.00)       (11.40)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national competitive bidding and international
and national shopping; consulting services, training and study tours to be contracted through selection
procedures of QCBS, CQ, LC, and IC; and incremental operating costs related to managing the project,
including PlU staff salaries, office supplies, communication costs and office maintenance and utilities.
- 51 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selection  Method
Services
Expenditure    QcS        Q8S      SF8       LCS       Co       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost*
Category    ._ _                                             _______
A. Firms           2.14      0.00     0.00      0.21      1.26     0.00      0.00      3.61
(2.14)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.21)    (1.26)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.61)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.25      0.00      0.25
_  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.25)    (0.00)    (0.25)
Total   2.14     0.00      0.00      0.21      1.26     0.25      0.00     3.86
(2.14)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.21)    (1.26)    (0.25)    (0.00)    (3.86)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract V:lue                              'Cftrat S uet Wto
Threshold       ~~Procuremenit           Prior RevIw
Expenditure Category     ( tonds)                    Methodl              (U$$ Smilions)
1. Works                     > 600,000                  ICB                   All / $1.34
<600,000                 NCB              First 2 contracts / $0.75
2. Goods                      > 100,000                 ICB                   All / $2.18
<100,000                  IS                    First Two
<50,000                   NS                     None
3. Services                    Firms                 QCBS/LCS              >$100,000/$2.14
Firms                    CQ                   TOR only
Individuals             Section V.               TOR only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $5,259,375
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 53 -



ARMENIA JUDICLL REFORM PROJECT
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
- Asses . . .ti-
Item Assessed   Null  Po     P      .i            W Fair                Av      Hij i                           D E d
(a) Legal
A spects                           I _ _ _ __                     _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(i) Laws &                     X             The new draft                X            Bank Review of the    Under review.
Regulations                                  Procurement Law                           new draft             CPAR in
(which has passed                         Procurement Law      2001.
the first reading by                      and
Parliament) omits                         recommendations for
the inclusion of                          appropriate
appropriate                               amendments; full
mechanisms for                            CPAR
complaint
resolution.
(ii) NCB              X                      No standard bidding                  X    These deficiencies    Under review.
Procedures                                   documents; no clear                       can be addressed
qualification                             through amendments
criteria; no clear                        to the new draft
guidance on the                           Procurement law
amount of bid and                         which is currently
performance                               with Armenian
securities. Lack of                       Parliament.
understanding of                          For Bank-financed
Conflict of Interest                      projects, the PIU will
aspects                                   use the ECA
Region's sample
NCB bidding
documents and
evaluation report
_______                       _      _____    ______    formats.
(iii) Intemal                  X             The Project                  X            The Operational       By effective-
codes and                                    Operational Manual                        Manual will be        ness.
manuals                                      will include a Code                       reviewed by the
of Ethics and other                       Bank and comments
regulations on                            incorporated into the
conduct of                                final version.
______      employees.
(b) Proc.
Cycle Mgmt.
(i) General                    X                                          X
handling
(ii)                           X                                          X            The PIU will follow
Procurement                                                                            the Procurement Plan
planning                                                                               agreed at Appraisal
(May 2000) and will
also prepare detailed
action plans for each
procurement
__________________    ______    ______    ______  package.
-54 -



(ii) Legal       _X                          Since the PIU will          X
assistance                                   be under the
auspices of the
Ministry of
Justice, it will
have access to
legal advice.
(iii) Technical               X                                          X
and
administrative
controls                            _ _ _ __ _ _                        _ _ _  _ _ _
(iv) Code of                  X              A Code of Ethics                   X    The PIU will          By
ethics                                       will be included in                      prepare a Code of    Effective-
the Operational                          Ethics for its staff.   ness.
Manual.
(v) Anti-       X                            Neither the current                X    Same remarks as       See
corruption                                   Procurement                              for public           comments
initiatives                                  Decree nor the                           procurement          against
new draft                                against item (iv)    item l.a
Procurement Law                          above.               above.
contain any
provisions on anti-
corruption aspects.
(e) Record
keeping
(i) Public                    X                                          X
notices
(ii) Bidding                  X                                          X
documents
(iii) Bid                     X                                          X
opening
information
(iv) Bid                      X                                          X
evaluation
reports
(v) Formal                    X                                          X
appeals and
outcomes
(vi) Signed                   X                                          X
contract
documents
(vii) Claims                  X                                          X
and dispute
resolution
records
(viii)           -             X                                         X
Comprehensive
disbursement
data                  _
- 55 -



Item Assessed   Null   Poor   1Aair                        .     . Mj  1 k   A.           i    .
(1) Staffing                             X                                         X              If needed as project   As needed.
undergoes
implementation, add
one more qualified
and experienced
Procurement
Specialist and
provide training
(g) General                       X                                                X
Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a          X                         The existing                            X      Make specific          Same
culture of                                         legislation and the                            provisions regarding   remarks as
accountability                                     new draft                                      accountability in the   against
Procurement Law                                new draft             item a. I
do not contain any                             Procurement Law        above.
specific provisions
on accountability
of individuals for
procurement
.______                   decisions.
(ii) Reputation          X                         No procurement                  X
of procurement                                     corps exists in
corps                                              Armenia.
(iii) Salary             X                         PIU salary                      X              Armenia should         This is a
structure                                          structures are                                 initiate steps to      long term
mandated by the                                create a               program.
Government and                                 procurement cadre      However
are non-                                       under the civil       the training
competitive with                               service; initiate      of procure-
the private sector.                            training courses in    ment staff
It is difficult to                             international          in the Govt.
recruit and keep                               procurement at the    Ministries
capable staff.                                 national universities   and Depart-
and also prepare a    ments
training program for   could be
existing              undertaken
procurement staff in  immediate-
various ministries.    Iv
(iv) Freedom                       X               The proposed                            X      Introduce conflict of
from political                                     Judicial Reform                                interest laws and
interference                                       Project is a very                              ethical standards for
political, high                                public service.
visibility project                             Strictly follow all
and many parties                               World Bank
will be interested                             Guidelines related
in using the project                           to procurement.
for their own
_______ _______ _______ _______  ._ _  purposes.
- 56 -



te  Assessed   Null toor  Nh it ltar   M*WC1k.S..                 w   Ave. ., ;        A     P    sd
(v) Existence of      X                      Capable                     X            See remarks against  Same
experienced                                 individuals are                           item (iii) above    remarks as
and capable                                  choosing                                                      against
staff                                        employment in the                                            item (iii)
private sector due                                            above
to the lack of an
interesting
remuneration
package offered by
PIUs.
(vi) Clear                    X                                          X
written
standards and
delegation of
authority
(vii) Sound            X                     Generally Armenia                  X    Financial             1999-2000
budget/                                     still follows the                         management
financial                                   FSU financial                             specialists should
systems                                      structure and                            review the system
practices which are                      and suggest
not acceptable                           financial reforms.
under Bank
projects..                               The PIU is however
required to follow
the financial and
accounting
requirements of the
Bank for Bank-
financed projects.
(h) Private                    X
Sector
Assessment
(i) General                    X                                         X            There is a general
efficiency and                                                                        lack of management
predictability                                                                         skills in engineering
consulting industry.
(ii)                           X                                         X
Transparency
(iii) Quality of               X                                         X
contract mgmt.
(iv) General                   X                                         X
reputation
- 57 -



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed for Normal Investment Projects    Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$  Above $100,000(equivalent)                                                Aveage
Works US$  Above $600,000(equivalent)                                                High X
Consulting  Above $100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individuals                   Low
(equivalent)
Post Review Ratio: One in five contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3  Form prepared by: Frances Rosenthal,
months. The supervision missions should include a procurement specialist  Operations Analyst, LEGLR
especially during the first two years of the Judicial Refonn Project  Signature: signed by Els Hinderdael, Senior
implementation. The procurement specialist should conduct thorough ex-post    Procurement Specialist, ECSIN/PAS Accredited
reviews and should continue providing guidance and support to the procurement  Staff Assigned to the project
unit in the PIU. The PIU plans to establish a computerized project procurement  Date: June 12, 2000
system.
Comments: See General Infornation and Summary
6. Action Plan for Strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
Based on the analysis of both the agency's procurement capacity and the information gathered, the following
recommendations are made to continue improving their capacity to undertake procurement:
(i) Procurement Specialist - the individual who is already hired by the PIU has undergone
training on goods procurement in Turin, Italy, and has attended the World Bank Procurement
Seminar in Yerevan. However, he still requires additional training in civil works which will be a
priority as soon as the project becomes effective.
(ii) Additional Procurement Specialist: The PIU may appoint an additional procurement specialist
if warranted by the volume of work. The procurement specialist should be thoroughly familiar
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and procedures and should preferably have 2-3 years
experience in Bank-financed procurement, especially in civil works of similar nature, and
consulting services.
(iii) Procurement Training of Existing Staff: The Procurement Unit has a Technical Specialist
(Architect) who should be provided basic procurement related training to assist in the increased
volume of procurement activities related to the Judicial Reform Project as well as in the long term
interests of the PIU.
(iv) Project Launch Workshop: The project launch workshop for the new project should be
conducted before project effectiveness.
(v) As a first task, have the PIU prepare the Operational Manual.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Cateory         Amrountriin US$million       Financing Percentgle
Civil Works                                4.29                         90%
Goods                                      2.72           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of expenditures of other items
procured locally
Consultant Services and training           3.86                         100%
including study tours and workshops
Incremental Operating Cost of the          0.53                         100%
PIU, including audit costs
Total Project Costs                        11.40
Total                                      11.40
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the
Government and the Bank, and will be considered once the PIU is familiar with the project's monitoring
aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information.
A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by September 30, 2002 (the project's mid-term
review).
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures under:
(a)    civil works under contracts not exceeding US$600,000 equivalent;
(b)    goods under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
(c)    services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
(d)   services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
(e)   training
(f)    operating costs of the PIU.
Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the PIU and will be made available for review by
Bank supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To expedite disbursements, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PIU, in US Dollars, in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. Arrangements for the opening of the Special Account have been discussed with the
Borrower during Negotiations. Payment of eligible expenditures (civil works, goods, services, operating
costs and the refinancing of the PPF) may be made by the PIU out of the Special Account. The authorized
allocation is $500,000. The initial deposit into the Special Account will be $350,000, until the aggregate
- 59 -



amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$2.0 million. The
Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursed balance falls
below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment
applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied by full documentation,
including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items except those eligible for
disbursement on the basis of SOEs. These applications would be fully documented, except in the case
where disbursements on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) or Project Management Reports
(PMRs) are permitted, and would be supported by a reconciliation statement and bank statements. All other
applications for direct payment or issuance of Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than
20 percent of the Special Account allocation.
The PIU will also open a project account into which a share of the Government's contributions will be
deposited every year. An initial deposit of the Government's counterpart funds in the amount of US$
75,000 will be made on January 31, 2001. Thereafter, the amount deposited by the Government shall not
be less than US$ 75,000 for each semi-annual period. This amount shall be deposited no later than June 15
and December 15 of each year.
Project Financial Management
Financial Management; Responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with the newly
created Project Implementation Unit (PIU). A financial management specialist (accountant) is employed by
the PIU. During Negotiations, a time-bound financial management action plan was agreed to remedy
existing deficiencies. More information on the project's financial management arrangements and the
project's flow of funds is found in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
Financial Management Capacity - Financial Management Risks: The financial management capacity
within Armenia has not been the subject of a detailed review by the Association. Any weaknesses that may
exist in the country's financial management capacity have been mitigated by the use of a specialized Project
Implementing Unit (PIU), for project preparation and implementation, and drawing upon experience of
projects of this nature. The main risks related to the project's financial management system are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff in the PIU. The PIU currently employs a full-time financial management specialist
whose responsibilities include maintaining accounts for the project preparation grant, project accounting,
internal controls and financial reporting. The PIU accounting staff will be further trained, as needed, and
this training will be provided as a part of the technical assistance for the project.
(ii) Capacity of accounting system to generate the agreed Project Management Reports (PMRs). The PIU
is using an accounting software which capable of generating the agreed PMRs. The PIU will hire
consultants as required to ensure that the PMRs will be produced starting from the period ending on March
1, 2002.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). The PIU will open and maintain a Special Account
(SA) in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, as well as a transit account in a local
commercial bank. In addition, the PIU will open an account in a local bank, where the Government's
contribution will be deposited. These accounts will be managed by the PIU. The total amount held in the
transit account will be limited to the equivalent of $5,000. The SA and transit accounts will be audited
annually and the results made available to the Bank.
- 60 -



The Bank will give special attention to the project financial management risks. The risks will be subject to
a rigorous follow-up during the supervision missions.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Management-oriented PMRs will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The formats of the PMRs (Cash Model) were agreed during Negotiations and are
included in the Operational Manual. The PIU will produce a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending on March 1, 2002. However, the PMvRs
showing the project's sources and uses of funds (PMR 1A) and the project's Special Account Statement
(PMR 1 E) will be produced from project effectiveness and the four procurement management reports
(PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be produced within six months of project effectiveness.
Disbursements: Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the
mutual agreement of the Government and the Association and will be considered once the PIU is familiar
with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable
project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by September
30, 2002 (the project's mid-term review).
Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Association and on
terms of reference acceptable to the Association will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost Selection.
Annual audited financial statements of the Project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be extended
from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be
financed from the proceeds of the Credit an incremental operating cost.
- 61 -



Procurement Plan______
PI,OT COURSTS
Rd,Oka,fApp.0 -ofY -oo,                                                     I   cm)    ICB        F0i.          I               57i             650,370  15,A7.01  154 -01  15-Moy-O1  30.26-00    31Jol I   31-Ag-01   I5.0oy131  3aS-50,1            D. 02(002
Rd326 ofApp11( ,2 Coot fo (20 1cmo                                                                                                         8975
SiN I,ooo  Coo ofMgM~-26001Io,os81o (digo do)                               I   CW52    NCB       P500                          27SD            310,550  I-N-NO0   I 1D-0         I-.13-CO   15-2.01   15-100.01   15-M-k-Os   31-M.-t   15I-AP-OI  O~0
Los 5-Is Fos Im-~s (5-so- VOSOS0 C-OS (Ho                                   I   (7(3    NCB        15-          1               2W5,I0           32775   1 Os.-ES    a 26.05      5W-0I   15-Pds-015I-Mb-OS   I5-Ap,-01  30.04005   15-MoOI  N-v2001
Cos  -0745 N     CoNM soiloC -  - Yoroo                                     2   IWO    NCB     P-0   I          I               250,000          287,500  I1J0.11    I-Fds.I    1.5000       15-M.fr  a   5-A040  a  15-Moy-Ol  31-M501"I-JoDol          p20
3Osko1- F17-S  h-oos Cool- G-,  Coos H00                                    2   CV5      ICB       P-o          I               600,00           60000    .5,0001   15-OP-OS   15-Ap-01  31-M*1I  3W01bO             31-181-01 5      15-MoO  s-y-l  Ap,2003
NON-PILOT COURTS
IsO fio0s  Coo.fl . "As    8NO-Nsk C(0oo03i. - Y-sss (d.-igs d-5)           I   (V/b    NCB       Pr,-          I               300              345,00   15.5,03   13-Od-00   15.00.0    30.N-00,      31-D.03   31-18-11   15-20-11    25-05,0    Ao-2901
I   CW71 NCR         P00.          I               350,0100         40200  15.Ocs-EO  15-Nw-EO  1S.,b-N-O   31-Oso-E    31 1-01  28-03,01  15-5,0001  314A-2,5-    505.2001
4~~~s,5,i MOO 13001 o~~~~00Coo(- 04000k Coo, lAos,                                                               __LI'I___0_00
Coi Ms F/s h-oos Coos - &0oNs'o CIoo hoso                                   I   (75-    NCB        P00          I                600,00          069000  15-1 00-E   15-Oso-l   15-D-ME   31-J.001   28-k"t-0   31-M.-Ol  S 13-A0o           30-AOp,-Il  N-ov.0
M10    ,-Mo FOsS h(,oosOCh   - 5S-  Coo H.-h                           2   00(    NCR        P58           5                                9 2,00   155-1001   15-5005,155-00.05  314A-1,0-       30.Ap0-OS   31-Moy-01  15-1-ssE     30-0010    13-2001
2  CWOI  NCR         P00          1               230,00           264,0D0  M5-PR"!  31-M.5-01  31-M.5-OS   15-Moy01  155-20001   15-Ju-l.01    31-W]-O    15-A.00I  Sp,-2R5
A0-- NbOlAo 0000-  Coo - A.o,io Coo HMooIsMOO                                                                                               15,D
2  CWII   NCR         000                          250,000          207,500  15-Op-OS   15-M,oy01  1S5-M~0    30-los-0S   31-J61-01   35-0510  153.50,         30-So      Apo-32D02
Rd.boSiho0-ofCuo-s CooS0.00                                                                                                                  80
I-o 1,000Cm,doESSI-g'0 150(OuyOfYOL2.050                                                                                                    27,D
3  CW,8-1    NCR      P00          I               400,               OP    I3SJs-US   15-500-M1   15-000    314-NbS     30-Ap-0C2  3I-M.s-112  15-100-11    3W-()sl    APo-20032
Fi-boSosCos -.A,sokooSD2600CooNouO                  fY -oo                               LaS I                               58030          23Q0300
F/so kNooso Cosos O(A.-2650081K   losoon Cooosoosos               ~~~~               ~~Los2          200,500          230-307
T-osOFsohs,,ao  Coos -5 I       soS b-OsH                                   3  CW13   NCR          Ps.          I                83000            92,000  15-Nb-O2   15-Ap,-12   15-AI,-OS   31-My.y-O     30A-0,o12   31-J.1-012   15,-A,1   31A-Ao11   M.y-200
SUBTOTAL NON-PILO  COURS                                                           1,750,000           2,012,500
1532TAL ALL SNIRASTRUSCI7J   RKFSAR0LTTAflON:                                                        3,732400             4.2M237
(lR.)Oir-R Fosiso, 5-o psl Pa. Coo s)boloos  1.05,030)                      3             1S       PM-s         I           5(1000           551000        I          3(I30.0    30-00-E    30-IJsoE    304.-01   55-505,0   15-5.-01   1A -15             2001
OIR) OIRdo F-odo fiC F300hW8.oPfiN Cos   b,           I.Jodo0  81h55        3             1s       15(0         I           50.0(            55,301         -10 14     -Jul-03    15-261-0    15-          N/A       1~5-       13-1W130-   31-130-3   Fd~050-
/3R) J00ls doslo .si d-o 21 100h)                                           2             70       550                      45400            49,5W0        ij,-.M0    I.26412    15-26403   15-5.50        NVA       I5-0.y0    15(260-O2   31-00-03   D-203
OIR) Cosoos roso fo P6  Coos                                                3             IS       05-S         1           05,53W           00450        1-1,m0      IW-MuE      15-M6-113   1&tW         N/A       15-So'0    15-00,      35-0,0    1s-2102
111R) O0ss F50iso-  fi P1oo Colo (Neqos   &Ms osSo bosulo                   2             50/      154          5           45.00            49.503       1.2s.0      I-265-O     1s-A.l-O S  -A..-        N/A                  15-00-OS   3 1--0    F8s20
(SRI 0ssio  ,,J-psoO OCoosSooo , 545500/0.                                  3             1(33     P- dos       S                           410,000       I-Ap-ES   15-N*-ES   31-MopES, 15-38103   15-AWT03   l5-Sq-0    30Ss              5-13,.11544    PO,-2(004
(PA) F03los   OfI7SICoo   10lS. 401156108o                                   I          34q505           1                   40000           4,4X           N/A         N/A         N/A    I N/A           N/A         N/A         N/A        N/VA        N/A
(JG) rF a0pooo .iN OS.woo So AosooOf/20p4 P. )-                                           is       Pd.s-        I           0 0              599000        1I-MOS    15-03001   15.50030  1   ,,0   15-1*-os15-6                30.26-011   31-265-01   00-2001
/1)M  rrFq04o,oho           . 4   -u sOsoooOosf g-9 y,ss.ho                 3             ICR      55-os        I           5(1140          9910500       I-Mb-oS   15-Op41    I-ooO 15-A       26.2    15-261-02   15-A..o.0   31-Aug-S    15-Sq,-0  1D05
n03 A.50Oisf0u,. &*,oboSosio                                                 I            ICR      P551         I           3110-0          33(103        1-N-00-E    15--13/E   104so.0   55-50,0   15-5-0-01   15-Aq.-01  3)-ApWI  55-sN-S   Sop.S3
(11    -t A uo- oo kofoid ksg.1 08 .0 Obsov,s&co                          3             CRI      P5-o         I           250,OO          575,00(0      I-M,00.3   15-Ap-OS 15fpl          I 5-Jsp03   15h-3803   55-Ag5003  31A0g03 1-,03 i5S         .o -2034
(LI) Eloss  O26i.s                                                         -3             IS       152          I           91/103          950.00         1-0.03      1-W01E    I55-26-E    15,-AqoE      N/A       1-50-315-     0003 31 -03.0   5000-004
1110) 551.-50t .0 115,50 So 15                                              2             Oil      Ps/so        1           16               1764500      30.API-42  30-0*O       15-2.0    15-Au0    305-40    31-6002   15-SOs-2S  35/Mo-02  F20,5304
j(IOWo0010s.-PP0                                                          I             71       500          I           77000            7,700          N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A
I(p   T0osOS5oPPF                                                            I            00       003          2            M0OW             11050          N/   NA I        NA   -            N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A
l(ORsoOss          -NPF                                                      I            00       05           I            3,000            3,30          N/A         N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A         N-A         N/         NA
TOTAl.                                            02,075,500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z1   12,750,50_                                                                              _
- 62-



(JR) Intemssun tmInsEfh to prepare technircal desig
gud,                                               I Cl      CQ      TO        cny I         35,00         36,750              l    ~ 15-Sep-0    15-Oct02         N/A       31-Oct02   30-Noo-00  15-Dec-00   Mar-2001
(ER) Degi  adtechnical seficaono for 5pilot courts  IC2 QB                io                  124000_1_  -0   1-JIn-0l   ISe  0                       31-Oct01   15-Dec-01   15-Jan-02   15-Feb-02   20-Feb-02    Ag20
(IR) Arciuncs to prepare TORs for 2 desigp comopetitions IC    IC      TRol          2           00 _____    I-ug0               N/A         NA          NSA         N/A         N/A       I -pW       1-e-        Dec=2500
OR   eincomop final desgn and tech specs for Gytomn  C4  Design C'   Prior     1         69/00         72,450
nio coo                                             I__                                               ___           1-Aug-00  I SeM       15-Sep-02   31-Oct-02      N/A      15-Nov-02  15-Dec-00  28-De-00   Mar-2001
OIR) Design corap. fina design and tech specs for Center
Pilot coon                                          I C5 Dei   CITR l                         29,000        30,450  I           1eW  -Oct-00   15-Oct02   30-Nov-02,   N/-A   15-Dec-0    15-Jan-01   28-Jan-01    Mar-2001
OIR) Design and itechtical specifications for anon-pilot
coarnsinoErebent, Sepaoanan d Ashnok                I IC6. C           TORol         1          3           34,650  1-Oct-02   1-Nnv-00  15-Nov-02  31-Dec-02        N/A      15-Feb-01   15-Mar-0l  31-Mar-0l   Ma-20
OIR) Design and technical specifications for nonv-pilot
comins  Sevan, Artashat, MassisanddcEiesiadzin      1 IC71   CQ        TOR  Iry                25,000       26,250  1-Nov-02   1-Dec-0   15-Dec-02   31-Jan-01       N/A      15-Mar-0l15I-A       l -01 ApIL  Jan-2001
(IR) Design aid SElncal specificaotisu for rai-priot
coorts. Cassain. Shengait, Ajapnyak Arabkwi and
___e__a____                               I C8I CS           I OR 2&       1         6052          63,000  1-Dec-0   I-Jarn-01   15-Jan-01   31-Jan-01 , N/A        15Apr-1   15-M4y-l 1   Mz-0    Jal-2001
(ER) Expertise for pilotcourts                      2  CS1   C8Q    I TR10           1         23,310       24,476 I-MWy02   1-Jun-2   15-Jan-02   30-Jun-02         N/A      15-May-02   15-Jan-02   30-Jan-02    Sp20022
()Expesise for ann-pilot coasrs                   21 CIOI   CQ    IT-OR            I        12,390        13,010  1-Jan-0    1-Jul-02    15-Jul-02   31-Jul-02     N/A      15-Aug-02  31-Aug-02                 Oct-2002
(1R)l[ntemaOnma Consxdonosupervision for all courr   3 CIII   CC       TO    Il               202,000      210,000  Iep-3   1-Oct-03   15-Oct-03- 31-Oct03   30-Nov-03   I5-Dec-03   15-Jan-Oil  15-Feb04   Aug-2024
SUBTCYTAL MINFASfRLUCrUE REHIAB
SERVICE61R01                                                                                               62
(IG) Design and insplonenidn of new cosTts
admintsrhaonosysets                                 I C121 QCB20         Prior       I       502,502       525,000  1-Jan-01   1-Feb-01   15-Feb-01   15-Mar-01 , 5-Apr,01   31ApO    15-May-01 31-May4J1   Aug-2002
publicasign of financialmgmt  Poca d m  ing co      2 C131  1,62S        PMn         I        135200        141,750  1-Jan-2   1-Feb-02   15-Feb-02   15-Mar-02  31-Mar-02 . 5Ap~         15-May-02  31AW0    Nov-2002
(JO) TA for legal drafling                          2 C14    IC          Fast        I        50,502       -52,502  1-art-02   1-Feb-02  -15-Feb-02   15-Mar-02      N/A      15Ar0    15-May-02  31MW0    Sep.2022
(JG) Data collection, establishment of-Slatisaics Office
and naising                                         2 CI5 -CB            Fria        I        15Z,201       150,602  1-Jan-,02   1-Feb-02   15-Feb-02   15-Mar-02  31-Mar-02   15         1pr May-02y-
(JO) Assisoance fin developing sew cane management
procedures & org.                                   IC1 C      CBS       Fr-a        I       370,020       388,3021 1-Jan-01   1-Feb-01   15-Fe01   15-Mar-01  31-Mar-01    15-Apr-Ol1  15-May-01 31-May-01   Ma-20
11G) Assessmenetof scof technology inconets         3 C17    IC        TRcd          1         15,503        15,750  I-Jan-03   I-Feb-O    15-Feb-05   15-Mar-O3     N/A      15-Apr-S 1-a-03         31 -May-03   Sep-2003
SUBTOTAL.JUDICSAL GOVERNANCE
SERVICER                                                                                   $I,22001    $8W,2000
(ES) Org. development of tIre Enoforcemenet Seivic, inxL
PR office & tg.                                     I CI C 181    2BS5   T-O   ony            110,000       115,502  1-Jan-01   1-Feb-01   15-Feb-01  -31-Mar-01     N/A    1 5ArO    15-Ma-0l         3-ay-01     Nov-2001
(ES) Development of case processing techniques,
statistics and mgnrl                                21 C19    CQ       TO     l      1         60,000       63,000  I-Fd-0I  1-Mar-01  15-Mar-01   30-Apr-01         N/A      15My0   31-4ay-01  15-Jan-01    Dec-2001
(ES) Adviory scdistosupyportdraffig                 2 020      IC      TO  ol        1        25,000        26,250  1-Mar-01   I-A-01   15-Ap -01  31-May-01         N/A      15-Jun-01   30-Jtn-0    15-Jul-01    Sep.2001
SUBTUrAL EN'kORCElsIlTSERVCEE
SERVICES.                                                                                   $19,0         $30,780                         ___                                   __
(A) Corrununicaotionconsudtant:and  -am            I  C21   QCS         Pfier       I        175,000       183,750  I-Apr-01  I-May-01  15-5la-01   30-Jan-0        N/A       15-Jul-01    31-Jul-01   15-Aug-01   Aug-2002
(PA) TV pg          producrion                      2C022      CB        Prior       1       320,030       336,030  I-Ap-01   1 L-01  154   -01  30-Jan-01   31-J"l-0          15-Jul-01   31-Jul-01   15-Aagk01   Aug-2004
(PA) Radio               iren                        2C0231 C            Post        I         35,020       36,750  1-Mar-01  I1-Ap-01   15-Apr-01   31-May-01       N/A       15-Jun-01   30-Jian-0l   15-Jul-01    Jul-2004
(PA) Development of legal blonuelsamnd banks an legal
issoes di printing                                  I0241   C            Post        1        30,003        3 1,500  1-Jan-01   1-Jul-01    15-Jul-01   31-Jul-01    N/A      31Ag0    15S"           3aep0        Se20022
(PA) Psdilic Opotma research -judcial sirvey  _     IC251   C            Faos       2          403000       42,030  1-Jul-01   I-Aug-01  15-Aug-01  31-Aug-01        N/A      3-e01 15-Oct-01   31-Oct01    Oct-2024
SUBTOAL PUBLC AWARENEE% SERVICES:                      -                                           8$M",Xt  __
(LI) Devrnelopetofa oncept                          IC026   QCB0S        Friar       1      -50,002         52,502  1-Mar-01   I-Apr-01   15-Apr-0  1  4,WJ0   30-Jan-0l   15-Jul-0        31-Jul-0l    15-Jul-01    Aug-2003
(U)Development ofa classificato c/systemataizahlo   IC0271   FCS          rior      I         80(830        84,000  I-Apr-01   1-May-01  15-ay-01   30-Jan-01   31-Jul-01    15-Jul-01    31-JulIl  15-ALag-01    a-22
(Lo Developmentsofasanlware                         1_028   QCBS         Prior       I        9502,         8925   lAMay~01  1-Ja-01   15-Jai-01   30-Jiur,01        N/A      15-My-0   15-Jan-01   30-Jun-01    Jul-2001
(Lt)Irnplernentatin                                 1_029  IQCBS         Prior       I         05,200       8925   1-Feb-02   1 -Mar-02  15-Mar-02   15-Apr-01   15-Mvay-02   15-Juan-0    15-Jul-02   31-Jul-02    Jan-2023
SJUTOTAL LEGAL MINOMAtION SERVICES.R1,0
(FTC) Anssisance in canficulsur development         2C030   QCBS         Pcn        2         1510200      157,50   1-Feb-02   1-Mar-02  15-Mr0        5-Apr-01   I--ay0    15-Jan-,02   15-Jul-02   31 -Jul-02    Jan-2023
(ITC) Asnsncc in developmsentof JTC                 2C31       CO        post        I        102,00        102,00   1-Feb0    I-Mar-02  15-Mar-02   15-Apr-01   15-May-02   15-Juns-0    15-Jufl-02   31-Jul-02    Jan-2003
SUrOTrAL JUDICIALTRANIG CENTIER
SERVICES                                               -                                                  $262,500 
TOTAL SERVKS    I          I          I$ 3,370,700    $3,37,6351  I__                                      __________
- 63 -



(JG) T             orgofhads ofWai   Camilue and . o_
staff of the CCC                                2 C32    CQ          1         I        6            63,_      14-an2   14d-2   15-Jul-2   IS-AE          NA       IS9p02   30642   ISOC42    DW20M
(JG) Sau  ust for manbos ofthe OCC cn saecific
topics                                           I C33   c*       TCo*         2        60.60        63,W   1M4w-01  1-Apr41   153Apr-l  1          1     NA       IS-An4-    30- 3 n.01   IS-Jul    Occ-2002
(JG)Cmnfaceccost bsr 1 23j u   (2Cmn s)         2C34              TO           2        30,o         31    01-Fe2  -4Mw-    15Mw-02 11-A2 S01    NWA                  -       IS215-M    31-Ju142    Ocf-2002
(JG) Training of oam a&inisual  & dev. Of AO
cagsy in m BaL                                  2 C35    fl2         Pt        I I      50,0         525    I-F 2  I-Mw-Cl  IS-t-    15-A-01              N/A     1S-1   IS-Ju14    31-Jlu4  1 O-20
(JI)CCompAue b-ginin fgawa   t peractl sdandjudes 3 C36              P6 f 0    2           -X 0      31A    I1-hn03   1-IJu0    153-J -03A                           IS                       Scp( B ISNov43  3Nov03   I _ 2__ 4
(JG) Taming forcourt irnacial offxs             3 C37    CQ   IPoe             2        2-000l       21,C 11  -J"      1A2   135-Asl  _ISSM4              WA       l t-0-     150w-De2  31-D4c-03   Mr-0204
(ES) C puernoc mnidng                           2. C35      Q        POO       3        2M           21M   1-Jm0    2-F&M0   2$J*0    1S-MwwCl    N/A              15*~       15-J..02   30-Jun2    Oct-M
(ES) Salay mtus for hey Enfosarn lService naff   2 C35     Q    ITORr          r        3OA01        31j    I-Feb1   I-Mw-l  1541w-C   ISA       W4 OA             I1Mwy2   15-Ju2   31-Jl02    O-2002
(PA) PR trais  forjudciasy and eafcrns          _  _s. vi.
staff                                            2 040    OQ     TORall        2               5        50   I-Jr4-2   1-F-Cl  IS-eb,02  1SMw4C          NA       ISAvr02  ISM402  31-M            AW0
(PA) Regiornl semniars                           2 041      Q   ITORa   r                10           IC0     I-Ju-    1-b02  15-FebI02  1S6W               AA02  N/A         I4         3
(PA) Jrnaism maining                             3 C42    IC    I-TORJu tSiple          4O                             1-J Fs43   15-Feb03  IS3-Mw-      NA       ISA341-3  i3-MWO   3              Dec-2003
(ITC) Trai:ing for lTC stff                      2 C43     O        TOR oil    I                     63      I-Jmi-4Cl 02 -4iJu2   ISJul4- Cl  Aw4        NA       15<R42   3054    ISOCt02   Ar 2003
(JC)        t Oganinaon of confamre to dvdcq canra _ _g
udkiTal  wdacasAcuA                             1 tC44              po         I                     31      C 1-Jn401   I-Ju-C    1-Jul-01   31-Ju141   NA       31_kvgoC  ISSepC1    _           _ Nov-2D01
TOTAL SMV0FAM TRAiNw                                                   $3.670           K
mPIU) Salams                                                 A                         22           231,0_____
(PIU) Asidit                                                                                         73,500                         ___7_
(PRU) Tramin inA                                                              =                      84,000
(P1EMS Sysen                                    _          IC                            is          15,750
(PM13 Opaaong expenses  nkaf. few, gmrons
cxSses etc.)                                              N A      _           _       1000         126,0C0          
1TAL IN4MOPER COMIQ __5f S       
wnpilotscrn                                       _                                               325,00           I
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Project Schedule                                  P                            Aitual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                   18
First Bank mission (identification)             12/15/98                     12/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     05/09/2000                   05/12/2000
Negotiations                                    06/12/2000                   07/19/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/30/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Justice, Council of Court Chairmen
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant No. 25794 for $281,000, SATAC I and II Credits
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Irna Kichigina                    Senior Counsel / Task Team Leader
Els Hinderdael                    Architect / Senior Procurement Specialist
Brenda Morata                     Program Assistant
Frances Rosenthal                 Operations Analyst
Vigen Sargsyan                    External Affairs Officer
David Shahzadeyan                 Public Sector Management Specialist
Anna D. Staszewicz                Financial Managernent Officer
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Judicial Sector Assessment for the Republic of Armenia, April 1998
C. Other
1. Inventory of Court Buildings and Needs Assessment in the Republic of Armenia, March 2000
2. Assessment of Court Administration and Case Management in the Judiciary of Armenia, March 2000
3. Structural Reforms in the Enforcement of Civil Judgments System of Armenia, January 2000
4. A Masterplan for the Judicial Training Center, January 2000
5. Social Awareness of the Judicial Reforms Survey, February 2000
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Diffeence between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frn ReVd
P035806       1998 Armenia                    AGRI. REFORM SUPPORT                               0.00      14.50      0.00       7.51       3.74       0.00
P008281       1998 Armenia                    EDUCATION                                          0.00      15.00      0.00       8.46       2.31       0.00
P008276       1999 Armenia                    ELECTRANSM & DISTR                                 0.00     21.00       0.00      19.18       3.34      -0.53
P008279       1997 Armenia                    ENTERPRtSE DEVELOP.                                0.00      16.75      0.00       2.92       3.23      0.00
P050140       1998 Armenia                    HEALTH                                             000       1000       0.00       7.34       4.79      0.00
P035765       1996 Armenia                    HIGHWAY                                            0.00     31.00       0.00       0.64     -13.04       3.21
P064879       1999 Armenia                   IRRIGATION DAM SAFETY                               0.00      26.60       0.00     24.85       1.91       0.00
P008277       1995 Armenia                   IRRIGATION REHAB.                                   0.00      43.00       0.00      4.39       6.38       5.14
P035805       1998 Armenia                    MUNICIPAL DEVELOP.                                 0.00      30.00       0.00     22.99       3.22      0.00
P051171       1999 Armenia                    SAC3                                               0.00      65.00       0.00      5.58       7.08       0.00
P051026       1998 Armenia                    SATAC2                                             0.00       5.00       0.00      2.43       2.55       0.00
P035768       1996 Armenia                    SIF                                                0.00      12.00       0.00      0.21       0.99       0.00
P057952       2000 Armenia                    SIF II                                             0.00     20.00        0.00     19.87       0.00       0.00
P057560       1999 Armenia                    TITLE REGISTRATION                                 0.00       8.00      0.00       6.80       2.00       0.00
P044829       2000 Armenia                    TRANSPORT                                          0.00     40.00        0.00     39.49       0.00       0.00
Total:       0.00      357.85        0.00      172.66     28.50       7.82
-67 -



ARMENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0:00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               Hotel Annenia                     0.00   3600.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitmnent:        0.00   3600.00      0.00       0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARMENIA: Judicial Reform Project
Etirope &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central     Low.
Armenia       A"la  income           i I5        9n
1998
Population, mid-year (mAtions,                            3.8       473      3.515
GNP per capita (Atlas nmethtod, US$)                     480       21190       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          t.8      1,039     1.844
Averaae annual rowth. 1992-98
Population I(%J                                           0~3        0.1       1.7
Labor force (%)-1.2                                                  0.6       1.9 ti
Most recent estimite (tae"t year available 19''248)
Poverty l% of population below national pove ft            ..line)
Urban population ( of total population)                   69         68         3i1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          75    2     9         63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                 1 5        23         89
Child malnutrition (% of children urider 5)                 .                         :        AccasstQe.1ew8t r
Access to safe water (% of onufaton)                      85          ..as      74
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                        1         4         32
Gross primarv enrollment (%of sctoot-aoe Do00u1tiOn)      87        100        108                      iti
Male                                                     ..       101        113
Female                                                            199        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197 1987       1997       1993
GDP (US$ bil lions)                               .         ,        1.6       1.9
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                  Z7           ,,      1390      14.7
Exports of 9oods and services/GOP                 .                 20.3      19.
Gross domestic savings/Gop                        .         .      -25.2     -19.2
Gross nationalsavinqsIGDP                         ,,       ..       2.68    -12.8
Currentt account balance/GDP                      .         .      -15,8     -17,4
Interest pavmentslGDP                            ..        ..        0.8       0.8                 +
Total debtGDP                                     .                 49.0      43.5
Total debt service/exports                        .         ..       5.8       7.7
Present value of debt/GOP                         .        ..       27.7
Present value of debt/exports                                       92.0         .
1977-87  1988-28      1997       1996   1999i-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                     ..     -7.7      3I1         7.2        ,.
GNP per caoita                                -1,.5      8.3          -
Exports of coods and services            ,      2.3       1.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998
(% of GOP)
Aoriculture                                       .         ..      33.3      34.2
Industry v.                                                         26.2      24.0
Manufacturing                                   ..                25.1 
Services                                                    -       40.5      41.7      no
Private consumption                               ..       ..      112.3     107.3
General oovernment consumption                    ..       ..       12.9      11.9
Irmports of aoods and services                    .         ..      58.S      53.0
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      ..       1.6        0.5      21.3
Industrv                                          .     -14.1        3.7      12.1     Z
Manufacturin.                                         -13.1        3.3         ..    3Z
Services                                          ..   -10.8         4.5        ..    20
Private consumption                                      -8.6        1.7         ..               /s
General qovernment consumption                    .      -2.1        4.4                  -i
Gross domestic investment                        ..   -10.9         24.3       Zi
Imports of aoods and services                     .       2.7        2.3        ..               " s  .       .r -   im,wts
Gross national Product                           ..    -9.9          8.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averace. If data are missina. the diamond wilt
be incomplete.
- 69 -



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998         _ o-%
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  ..        ..      13.8       8.7
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..       ..      17.3      11.2
Government finance                                                                    2,00    v
(% of GDP. includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   .        ..      19.8      20.8               03   9t   r,    "        s
Current budget balance                            ..      ..       -1.7       1.5                      P   r
Overall surplusldeficil                          ..       ..       -5.9       4.3
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998                          (US5 AIans)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..       233       251        t
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones        ..       ..       102          .
Machinery and mechanical                        ..       ..        36         .
Manufactures                                    ..         ..      19
Total imports (cifl                              ..        ..       793       802
Food                                            .         ..      270         ..      _
Fuel and energy                                                   235
Capital goods                                  ..        ..        34         ..            _
U2 #8      4   98    se 07 #
Export prce index (1995=100)                     ..
Import price index (1995=100,                    ..       ..         ..         ..               *Es           Srk
Terms of trade (1995=100J                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998
Exports of goods and services                     ..      ..        330       357        -
Imports of goods and services                     ..      ..        952       948
Resource balance                                 ..       ..       -622      -591      o
Net income                                        ..       ..       123        75      4   _
Net current transfers                            ..        ..       242       188      t-
Current account balance                           ..       ..      -257      -328
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..       316       331
Changes in net reserves                                             -59        -3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            .        ..       255       298
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/lUS$)                 ..        ..     490.6      504.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millionsJ                                                                         4o  _e  ofu QWa d     109 lw s$ mUIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..       798       820
I BRO                                           .        ..        11        10                   e4   ,1
IDA                                                               254       293
Total debt service                                ..       ..        28        37
IBRD                                            .        .          1         1                                      :9
IDA                                             .                   1         2          22*
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..       ..         35
Official creditors                              .        ..        98        18
Private creditors                                                   0         0
Foreigndirectinvestmenl                                            51       221            TO:7  .
Portfolio equity                               ..         ..        0         0 
C 174
World Bank program                                                                    A-SiN
Commitments                                    ..       ..        107       125    e  OA      D-oti swa ti   F -Prte
Disbursements                                  ..       ..         77        43    C W                            G J &Wt84r
Principal repayments                           ..       ..          0         0
Net flows                                       ..      ..         77        43
Interest payments                              ..       ..          2         2
Net transfers                                  ..       ..         76        41
Development Economics                                                                                                     9122199
- 70 -



- 71 -



IBRD 29596
AA'                    T.                                                                A~~~~~~~4 4~      6~ 
GEORGIA                       ,,_ I                                                 Iabn.  _;i.__J.               \                          E R IAtt                                           <e                                    '6 .=
GEORGIA                        ToTh,~~A                                 V      I IGEO GI
. Ba9novko.                                                                                                                                                                     UKRAINE  
-K >'                                                      7 -            i-                                                                                                                                                              KAZAKHSTAN
/,~~~~~~~~~Ts Ar                             Aevrdi             Noyemoer,or    T                                   ZRB IAY
~~~~~Res.~~~~~~~~~~     '  -QJ   EGO IAR CPTL
RYIA   SSSIANEPSU
W'?L 65VA              AS O        DRATIOE
<'.' M,. 3'-'   > 4   REPUBLIC                    <REPUBLIC 'OF  ARMENI
co!ors~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0eonbr  Ro ')_            AFIA                                          TL                                        >,~   0                                                           0     3       0    5       0lmb        3.i
LodRs,     ;       o2ngb
IJEV                                                                                                                  R    O N   ( R                                   M AYITA9S
40                                                                                                                                                           -      PRIMARY ROADS                                      4D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIGCHU5KY 
GY                                                            T         U-S  H                                                                RESERVROAIR                     OO4-RAI RAD
VANADZOR  I        I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -NTRA OA  OUDRE
-~~~  REPUBLIC  Reoeroorn    r                                                                  Tolorrgekoi                0         15         20        35         40MiIos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYIA  REL)LI
39   0 040 0!o000e0 000.  OF  IRAN                                                                                                                    0      iT    20    30    40    ST    STKlooelers ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RABOFRA
rXOTN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY(O



