Report No. PID8028
Project Name                     Armenia-Judicial Reform (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Legal
Project ID                       AMPE57838
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Council of Court Chairmen
Ministry of Justice
Judicial Training Center
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           April 20, 1999-revised December 13, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March, 2000
Projected Board Date             June, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives:   the objective of the project is to assist in the
development of an independent, accessible and efficient judiciary in the
Republic of Armenia. During the CAS discussions, IDA was requested by the
government to assist in the further definition and implementation of its
judicial reform program. The proposed project responds to this request.
Description:
2.      The following components will form part of the project:
(i)     The Court Administration Component would focus on consolidating court
administrative functions in a separate agency within the judiciary, in the
interests of enhancing the professionalism of administrators, ensuring that
court administration receives the necessary level of government attention and
financial support, and promoting true independence of the judiciary. Such
agency - the Council of Court Chairmen -- has been already established under
the new law on the judiciary. The court administration system itself would
be fundamentally altered. A modern concept of court administration divides
it into six broad areas: court administration (general), judicial
administration, court management, case management, court technology, and
public trust and confidence. The project will provide assistance in
developing all these areas, with particular focus on case management and
court automation. Work is already underway on a Court Administration and
Case Management Assessment financed by the Judicial Reform PHRD Grant.
(ii) Court Infrastructure Rehabilitation. The project will assist the
Government with rehabilitation and reconstruction of selected court
buildings. The court facilities currently available to many first instance
courts are in deplorable condition. For a variety of reasons, these
facilities received little or no maintenance and repair during the past
decades. In addition, a number of court facilities were destroyed or
severely damages by the 1988 earthquake, and have not yet been replaced or



adequately repaired. No modern office equipment, such as word processors,
facsimile machines or photocopy machines, are available. The few typewriters
and telephones that have been provided are both antiquated and inadequate in
numbers. An inventory of court houses has been provided and initial work is
underway financed under the Judicial Reform PHRD Grant.
(iii) Training of judges and court personnel. Provision of comprehensive
training to judges and other court personnel has been emphasized as a main
priority by all our Armenian counterparts. Several initiatives in this area
are currently under way, including a TACIS project for the establishment of a
Judicial Training Center in an amount of ECU 1 million. The Bank project
will assist in the establishment and strengthening of the Judicial Training
Center, as well as with short-term training needs for the judiciary which
have been identified during project preparation. The Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC I) is financing a masterplan for the
Judicial Training Center, which is expected to be completed by February 2000.
(iv) Enforcement of court decisions. Enforcement of judicial decisions has
emerged as a particularly difficult issue for the Armenian judiciary.
Increasingly judicial decisions in civil, commercial and criminal cases have
gone ignored by the parties whom they bind. In an effort to address this
problem, a new Law on Enforcement of Court Decisions was adopted in 1998. A
special category of enforcement personnel has been established under the
Ministry of Justice. The project would assist a newly established structure
in the areas of capacity building, training of personnel, and provision of
equipment. The Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC I)
is financing a German team who will conduct an assessment of the legislative
and institutional framework of the bailiff service.
(v) The project would also attempt to improve access to legal information
through (i) facilitating the flow of legal information to judges,
governmental officials, legal professionals and general public; (ii)
developing a Government strategy for facilitating private and competitive
dissemination of legal information, and (iii) strengthening institutional and
operational capacity of agencies responsible for maintaining authoritative
texts of official legal materials, their codification and systematization.
The project will also support a public awareness campaign aimed at educating
the population of Armenia about their basic legal rights and obligations, the
role of law and judiciary in a modern society, access to justice, various
forms of legal representation in court, etc. The public awareness campaign
would also include dissemination of the information about ongoing reform of
the judiciary which should ultimately contribute to the improved image of the
judiciary. The Judicial Reform PHRD Grant is financing a baseline survey
which will be conducted shortly.
(vi) Project Management. The project will finance PIU staff salaries and
operating expenses of the PIU.
Financing
3.      The proposed credit will consist of a $10 million dollar equivalent IDA
credit.
Implementation
-2-



4.      Overall project management will be the responsibility of the Project
Implementation Unit (the PIU). The PIU will be responsible for the
coordination of all project interventions, and for providing necessary
support services (procurement of goods and services, financial control,
monitoring of project activities, preparation of annual work plans, and
reporting on status of project implementation).
5.      Separate Working Groups for each component were established early in
the summer of 1999, comprised of representatives from the Council of Court
Chairmen, the Ministry of Justice and the relevant agency to provide policy
guidance and oversee project preparation activities.
Sustainability
6.      The process of project development has been largely collaborative and
benefited from extensive participation by the representatives of the
judiciary, the executive and legislative branches and legal professional
community. There is a very high degree of consensus in the Republic of
Armenia about the need for judicial reform which should be an important
factor for the sustainability of the reform process. However, careful
attention will need to be paid to Government budgetary support during and
beyond the implementation stage of the project. Also, adequate funding and
procedures for operation and maintenance of judicial infrastructure should be
ensured.
7.      Key issues for sustainability of the interventions contemplated under
the project include: (i) the continued political and public support for
legal and judicial reform through a long-term program; and (ii) developing
systems that provide incentives for effective, continued reform and good
performance by the judges.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.      Although the Bank Group has somewhat limited experience in the area of
judicial reform, projects to date have shown that the project will only
succeed if ownership and commitment at the highest levels of Government are
in place. The other important lessons include the following:
(i) a judicial sector review should normally be a pre-requisite for any
lending operation in the area of judicial reform. A comprehensive Judicial
Sector Assessment for the Republic of Armenia was carried out in 1998, and
the main conclusions and recommendations of the assessment are being
reflected in the project design;
(ii) coalitions of leaders from the executive, the judiciary, legal
profession, the Bar and NGOs form the most effective foundation for
sustainable judicial reform. In Armenia, an initial effort of designing the
judicial reform concept was supported through the State Committee for Legal
and Judicial Reform which represented a wide spectrum of leaders from the
executive, the judiciary, Law Faculty of the Yerevan State University, the
National Assembly, the general Prosecutor's Office and legal scholars.
During project preparation, all major counterparts continue being involved in
discussions with the Bank project team, and among themselves;
(iii) there is a need to prioritize judicial reform activities in order to
-3 -



avoid overloading the judicial capacity to absorb the necessary changes.
Careful planning of the court administration reform, as the most complex and
challenging component of the project is being carried out under the Judicial
Component of the Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit;
(iv) sustainability of judicial reform is linked to developing or
strengthening institutional capacity of judicial institutions. One of the
main focuses of the proposed project is an institutional development of the
Council of Court Chairmen, the Administrative Body of the Council, MOJ's
Department of Enforcement of Court Decisions and the Judicial Training
Center.
Poverty Category
9.      This is not a poverty targeted intervention.
Environmental Aspects
10.     The physical infrastructure rehabilitation component will include civil
works; the environmental issues will need to be identified and mitigation
measures will be described.
Program Objective Categories
11.     EA/PV
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Irina Kichigina, Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2784
Fax:        (202) 522-1591
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 24, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



