Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3417 AM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Judicial Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 14, 2000 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3417 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
August 21, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
reform the judicial system of the Republic of Armenia (hereinafter called the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
 
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution 
No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 
1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such 
countries.” ; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Administrative Office” means the Office of the Council of Court 
Chairmen (hereinafter defined as the Council) responsible for the provision of 
administrative support to the Council; 
 
(b) 
“Advisory Board” means the board supervising the implementation of 
Part F of the Project;  
 
(c) 
“Council” means the Borrower’s Council of Court Chairmen, established 
pursuant to the Law on the Judiciary of 1998; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories  (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Enforcement Service” means the Service for Compulsory Enforcement 
of Court Decisions, established pursuant to the Law on the Service for Compulsory 
Enforcement of Court Decisions, dated June 3, 1998; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means a plan setting forth mitigation 
measures and other requirements for carrying out works under Part B of the Project, and 
such plan constitutes a part of the Operational Manual; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“JTC” means the Judicial Training Center established under the Council 
pursuant to the Law on the Judiciary of 1998; 
 
(i) 
“MOFE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economy; 
 
(j) 
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice;  
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
setting forth the implementation rules and procedures for the Project, including the 
functioning of the PIU and including the Environmental Management Plan for Part B of 
the Project;  
 
(l) 
“Pilot Courts” means Appellate Court on Criminal and Military Case, 
Appellate Court on Economic Cases, Appellate Court on Civil Cases, the Court of 
Malatia-Sebastia Community of Yerevan, the Court of Center and Nork-Marash 
Communities of Yerevan, the Shirak Marz Court, and the Lori Marz Court.  
 
(m) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established under the 
MOJ; 
 
(n) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01(b); 
 
(o) 
“Project Administration Council” means the council established by the 
Borrower for the overall Project coordination; 
 
(p) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(q) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 1, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on June 21, 
2000; and 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on  June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2010 and ending June 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2020, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) Whenever 
(i)
 the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Bank and after due consideration by them of the development 
of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  7
-
6
-
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the A
ssociation determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Program, the 
Operational Manual and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) open by January 31, 2001, and maintain  thereafter a Project 
Account in a bank acceptable to the Association; (ii) replenish said Project Account from 
time to time so that the amount deposited in said Project Account shall not be less than 
the equivalent of $75,000; and (iii) use said Project Account for financing the Borrower’s 
contribution to the Project expenditures. 
 
(c)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and the 
Program; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 
1, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:  
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
1,
Government House 
 
Republic Square 
 
Yerevan 375010 
 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
243331
LADA SU 
(3742) 151-154 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By /s/ Arman Kirakossian 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) Goods  
 
(a) under Part C.1           
of the Project 
 
(b) under other Parts       
 
of the Project 
 
(2)  Works 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
 
services and training  
 
(4) Incremental 
 operating 
costs 
 
of
the PIU 
(5)  Refunding of
Project Preparation
Advance
TOTAL 
 
133,000 
 
1,918,000 
 
3,021,000 
 
2,789,000 
 
383,000 
 
356,000 
 
8,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 90% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
90% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs of the PIU” means the incremental 
expenses incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, including: staff 
salaries (other than Government officials), training of the PIU staff, minor office 
refurbishment and office maintenance, office supplies, minor office equipment and 
maintenance, vehicle operation, insurance and maintenance, utilities, communications, 
translation, banking charges and audit expenses. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;  and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) until the 
Borrower shall have submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence that an 
organizational and management structure of the JTC has been established and the JTC 
has become fully operational.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not 
exceeding $600,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent per contract;  (v) 
training; and (vi) operating costs of the PIU, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account,  in a bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  14
-
13
-
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 
1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
Page  15
-
14
-
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, th
e
term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of  SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  17
-
16
-
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $750,000. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen judicial governance through 
the support to the Council; (ii) to improve court administration and case management 
procedures; (iii) to develop a comprehensive institutional base for continuing education 
for judges and court personnel; (iv) to strengthen the service for enforcement of court 
decisions; (v) to develop a comprehensive legal information system accessible to judges, 
legal professionals, business community and citizens; and (vi) to promote public 
awareness of laws and legal institutions.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Judiciary
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for: (a) institutional 
strengthening of the Council and its Administrative Office; (b) development of the code 
of ethics for judges and a mechanism for evaluation of judicial performance; and (c) 
improvement of the legislative framework for the judiciary. 
2. 
Development of modern court administration models in the areas of: (a) court 
financing; (b) efficient  organization of judges and court personnel’s work; and (c) court 
statistics.  
3. 
Establishment of a modern case management system for courts of the first 
instance. 
4. 
Carrying out of a court automation program through: (a) provision of computer 
equipment, software and technology to selected courts and training of judges and court 
personnel; and (b) carrying out an assessment for the use of other technology in courts.  
Part B
:
Court Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. 
Rehabilitation and refurbishing of six (6) Pilot Courts and construction of one (1) 
Pilot Court in Giumri. 
2. 
Rehabilitation of thirteen (13) selected courts.  
Page  20
-
19
-
3. 
Development of new design and space planning standards for courts.  
Part C
:
Training of Judges and Court Personnel
1. 
Assistance to the JTC in: (a) development of an organizational and management 
structure; (b) curricula development; and (c) equipping classrooms and other facilities. 
2. 
Assistance in the development of a comprehensive strategy of continuing judicial 
education. 
Part D
:
Improving Enforcement of Court Decisions
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the Enforcement 
Service for strengthening its institutional and operational capacity. 
Part E
:
Legal Information
1. 
Strengthening of the institutional and operational capacity of the MOJ and 
development of an adequate legislative framework for classification, systematization and 
collection/registration of legal information. 
2. 
Development of an electronic legal database within the MOJ. 
3. 
Development of a comprehensive strategy for effective and competitive 
dissemination of legal information.  
4. 
Provision of essential legal texts to courts.  
Part F
:
Public Awareness and Public Education Campaign
1. 
Development of a comprehensive public relations strategy for the judiciary and 
establishment of a public relations unit within the Council. 
2. 
Provision of specialized training to journalists and other representatives of mass 
media in order to improve mass media coverage of legal and judicial matters. 
3. 
Dissemination of legal information to the population through: (a) television and 
radio programs; (b) seminars in local communities; and (c) publication of brochures on 
legal issues.  
Page  21
-
20
-
4. 
Conducting public opinion surveys during Project implementation aimed at 
evaluation of public awareness of laws and legal institutions, and public attitude to courts 
and judges’ services.  
Part G
:
Project Management
Provision of equipment, training and administrative support to the PIU, including 
financing of its operating costs during Project implementation.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section.  
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.  
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $600,000 or more. 
(b) 
Preferences for domestically manufactured goods and 
domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  23
-
22
-
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $600,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,940,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
Bidders for works procured under this method may be postqualified in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.57 of the Guidelines. 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $407,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $126,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $600,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost $100,000 
or more; and (iii) the first two contracts for works to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  24
-
23
-
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
2. 
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  25
-
24
-
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,270,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants’ Guidelines.  
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
3. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services for construction supervision under Part B of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
Page  26
-
25
-
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain the PIU within the MOJ, with the staff, resources and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association;  
(b) 
assign to the PIU the responsibility for Project implementation, 
including: (i) preparation by November 30 of each year, commencing from November 30, 
2000, of annual work programs and associated budgets for the Project, reviewed and 
agreed upon with the Association; (ii) monitoring of the preparation of bidding and 
contract documents and of procurement procedures under the Project; (iii) maintenance 
of Project records including the Special Account and the Project Account, and arranging 
for the audit thereof; and (iv) preparation and furnishing to the Association of Project 
Management Reports;  
 
(c)  
ensure that Project implementation will be carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual;  
(d) 
maintain the Project Administration Council responsible for the overall 
Project coordination which shall include representatives of the MOJ, the Council, the 
judiciary, the office of the Prime Minister, the MOFE, the Enforcement Service, the PIU 
Director and other representatives as may be agreed upon from time to time with the 
Association; and 
(e) 
maintain Working Groups for each respective Part of the Project with 
composition and responsibilities acceptable to the Association. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
Page  28
-
27
-
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about July 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter. 
3. 
Not later than June 30, 2001, the Borrower shall submit to the parliament an 
amendment to the Law on the Judiciary of 1998, providing the Council with supervisory 
authority over administrative affairs of courts of all levels, and such amendment shall be  
reviewed and agreed upon by the Association. 
4. 
Not later than December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall submit to the parliament a 
draft law, reviewed and agreed upon by the Association, regulating classification, 
systematization, and registration procedures for the Borrower’s laws and regulations. 
5. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, during execution of the Project, an Advisory Board whose composition and the 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Association. 
6. T
he Borrower shall implement the Environmental Management Plan and shall 
ensure that all rehabilitation and construction works shall be carried out in accordance 
with the mitigation measures specified in the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
Bmorata 
\\LEGNT01\LEGEC\BACKUP\ARMENIA\CONFORM\C3417.doc 
02/06/01 11:04 AM
 
