Page  1
May
21,
1999
His Excellency
Edward Sandoyan
Minister of Finance and Economy
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Yerevan, Republic of Armenia
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Judicial Reform Project
Grant No. TF 025794
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(the
Association) to indicate the Association
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred eighty-one 
thousand Dollars
($281,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Armenia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Association  of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Judy O’Connor
Director for Armenia and Georgia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
/s/
Edward Sandoyan
Minister of Finance and Economy
Date:
June 8, 1999 
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the 
Judicial Reform Project to be financed by the Association
(the Project), which main 
objective is to assist the Recipient in the establishment of the independent,
efficient,  and effective judiciary in Armenia.
The activities
(the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) an assessment of existing court management procedures (including personnel 
policies, organizational structure, planning, and budgeting) and development of a 
strategy for court management reform aimed at rationalizing the court structure and
allocation of human and financial resources in the judiciary;
(b) analysis of existing case management procedures and preparation of a 
masterplan for the development of a new, modernized system of caseflow management and
record-keeping, statistics and archives;
(c) preparation of a strategy for improving the legal information system, 
including: (i)
clarifying the Government’s strategy for facilitating private and 
competitive dissemination of legal information;
(ii)
reviewing the available
Page  2
technology and facilities; and
(
iii
)
identifying a strategy for dissemination of new
laws and changes in the legal system to government agencies, courts, business
community, the legal profession and public at large;
(d) preparation of preliminary design, costing estimates and cost-benefit 
analysis for rehabilitation of court infrastructure and development of an automated
court information system;
(e) strengthening of the capacity of the Council of Court Chairmen and the 
Project Implementation Unit to design and implement the project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants
’
services and minimal office
equipment required for the Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.
The
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the
results of the Activities.
The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by March 31, 2000.
After
that date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants), as well as 
procurement of goods, required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall
be the responsibility solely of the Association and shall be done according to the
Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Republic of Armenia on the Consultants or any of the
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in 
connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities.
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the
IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Armenia, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement
with the Association shall have been suspended.
The Association may also terminate
the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Association has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the
Project; or
(b)
the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Association’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Association is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Association pursuant to this
Agreement.
