                                                                                                                    92424
TV Show Increases Awareness of Legal Rights in Armenia                                                              July 22, 2005
7/2005


                                                          Yerevan, Armenia - In October 2003, the Government of Armenia and the World
                                                          Bank funded a television program called ”My Right” to provide Armenian society
                                                          with information on legal rights.

                                                          Surveys found that many citizens were unaware of their legal rights and
                                                          lacked understanding of the legal system. Distrust of the courts was widespread. 

                                                          To change public opinion and create legal literacy, the Bank funded the show
                                                          through its Judicial Reform Project development credit. It worked closely with the
                                                          Ministry of Justice to identify public information gaps. The local producing firm
                                                          “AZD” was hired on a competitive basis for the production of the TV show.  

The program uses mock trials to depict real-life disputes.  

The judge on the show is a deputy minister of justice, Mr. Tigran Mukuchyan, and
the actors are often parties in a real dispute. 

Episodes cover rental and property disputes, torts, contract issues, and family law
matters: all issues that are timely and of broad interest. 

A live studio audience of judges, lawyers, legal officials, law school students and
the general public discuss the trials on-air. A special web site was launched for
getting feedback and providing general information to the public.

Aired once a week on Armenia's Public TV channel and repeated on Sundays, the
show was soon a hit. After six airings, ”My Right” became the country’s number
one show and received a special award. It generated an immense interest in legal
issues and citizens' rights among viewers, including parliamentarians and laywers. Since the Public TV channel is also broadcast on
satellite, the show is watched by many Armenians from the Diaspora who actively send their positive feedback using the TV show's web
site.
 
Deputy minister of justice Mr. Tigran Mukuchyan, the show's judge, became so popular that many people consider him the most favorable
judge in the country and approach him on the streets with their real legal issues.

When power went out in a town a few minutes before ”My Right” was to air, townfolk marched to the mayor's office and accused local
officials of intentionally disrupting power so that people could not watch the show.

Viewers write and call in for legal documents and decisions. They are reportedly
now asking for the same documents from notaries, judges and other legal officials.
Responding to public demand for legal consultancy, the TV production team has
organized several meetings with the judge on the show and other lawyers from the
Ministry Justice.

The show has increased public interest in the protection of legal rights and
introduced people to the type of legal remedies they can find in courts. These are
the first steps towards building trust in the justice system.

As one of the journalists said, “'My Right' is the most fair court in the world. We
have to translate this virtual court into reality”.

The program has now aired about 40 episodes and popular demand has prompted
the production of another 40.

                                                                      ***

                     To read more about the World Bank's Judicial Reform Project (2000-2006) in Armenia, click here.

             Other information on the Bank's work in Armenia can be found on the following website: www.worldbank.org.am
