Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11658
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1292-MAU)
FEBRUARY 16, 1993
Country Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency
Ouguiya (UM)
Exchange Rate (UMIJUS$)
1985  UM 77.08
1986  UM 74.38
1987  UM 77.38
1988  UM 75.26
1989  UM 83.05
1990  UM 80.61
1991  UM 81.83
October 1992  UM104.00
List of Acronyms
CSA          Commissariat A la Scurite Alimentaire
PCR          Project Completion Report
SAL          Structural Adjustment Program
SNIM         Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SONELEC   Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 16, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mauritania-Second
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1292-MAU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Second
Technical Assistance Project in Mauritania (Credit No. 1292-MAU)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. The PCR is of high quality. It focusses
on the right issues, and its findings are presented in a clear, forthright manner.
The PCR's main conclusioh is that the project's original objective of long-term, sustainable
improvement in macroeconomic and sectoral management capacity "seems largely to have been
ignored, both by the Bank and the Government." The project's objectives were so broadly stated
as to be operationally unclear, and although this was evident early in the implementation phase, the
objectives were never revised to reflect simpler and more realistic goals. The project design called
for the provision of a four-person resident team to advise and assist the Government with macro
and sectoral planning and policy formulation, including through regularly scheduled inter-Ministerial
meetings. At Government's request, only one adviser was provided, on secondment rather than via
the project, and the intended inter-Ministerial review meetings were never held.
Instead of serving, as intended, as an instrument to foster institutional development, the
project was transformed largely into a study fund, while also providing some salary supplements to
government employees as well as ad hoc operating expenses (including foreign travel) of the
Ministry of Planning. Moreover, while training had been highlighted during preparation as a key
aspect of the project, virtually no training--either on-the-job or through formal programs--was
provided during implementation.
Thus, the project outcome was unsatisfactory. To be sure, the project did yield benefits in
the form of a substantial number of studies, of satisfactory quality, that contributed to the
preparation of the first SAL operation and other Bank projects. But it failed to reach its stated
objectives and its institutional impact was negligible. Weak Government commitment to project
objectives, lack of specificity regarding actions to be taken, loose project administration, and weak
Bank supervision underlie these results.
This project will not be audited as the PCR reconfirms well-known lessons regarding
technical assistance operations.
Attachment
This documcnt has a r(estrictcd Ais.r; iutii n a!1d  rn;y b1  used [y recipients only in the performnance of their official duties.  ILs
contents may not otheiwise be Jisclomd %;ithouL 'i rild Iatik authonzation.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit No. 1292-MAU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface    ........................................                                   i
Evaluation Summary    ...............................  iii
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                                       1
Project Identity.                                                           1
Background and Early Preparation ... 1
Project Design and Organization.                                           2
Project Implementation.                                                    4
Project Results.                                                           6
Sustainability.                                                            7
Bank Performance.                                                          8
Borrower Performance.                                                      8
Project Relations.                                                         8
Consulting Services.                                                       9
Documentation and Resource Data for Preparing PCR.                         9
Conclusion.                                                                9
Part II:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                               10
Part m]: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .............................    11
Related IDA Credit  .............            ..................   11
Project Timetable   ............            ...................   11
Cumulative Credit Disbursement ..............................    11
Project Implementation ................................  11
Project Costs and Financing  ...............................    12
Project Results   ..........            .....................   12
Status of Covenants . ...............................  13
Mission Data  .............             ......................   14
Follow-On Operations ................................  14
ANNEX  Borrower's Assessment of the Project (copy of the original in French) . .   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1292-MAU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Technical Assistance Project
in Mauritania, for which an IDA credit of SDR 4.1 million was approved on September 21, 1982.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1991, some four years after the original closing date. The
credit was fully disbursed. The final disbursement was on December 2, 1991. The project was
cofinanced with a grant of DFL 5.8 million (US$2.9 million equivalent) from the Netherlands.
2.    Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Operations Division (AF5CO).
The Borrower prepared a very short note assessing the project, which is presented unedited as
Part II.
3.    Preparation of this PCR was initiated by a mission to Mauritania in December 1991. It
is based on interviews with Mauritanian and Bank staff who worked on the project as well as a
review of file documents, both at Headquarters and at the Resident Mission in Nouakchott.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1292-MAU)
Evaluation Summary
1.    The Second Technical Assistance Project for Mauritania (Credit No. 1292-MAU) was
designed to address a very broad spectrum of institutional weaknesses including macro economic
issues, sectoral planning and implementation capacity, institutional organization and public
enterprises. The project included an important training component to build local competence to
perform these functions following project completion, thereby ensuring the project's sustainability.
2..   The project required four extensions (despite the absence of any special conditions) to
become effective during which time it became clear that the Government's commitment to the
project's fundamental design and objectives was extremely weak. The Government strongly
resisted the notion of the proposed four-person expatriate team meant to guide policy
formulation and oversee project implementation. Moreover, faced with steadily deteriorating
economic performance and declining external assistance, the Government wished to reorient the
project toward short-term goals (e.g. preparation of a recovery program which was to form the
basis of a Consultative Group Meeting) at the sacrifice of the originally stated longer term goal
of strengthening economic planning/management capacity.
3.    Whatever the merits of these modifications (the elimination of a very costly resident
expatriate team was probably a good decision) it is puzzling that the need for them emerged only
after Board approval and even more puzzling that, once they were revealed, the project's legal
description was never amended.
4.    In the absence of any clear restatement of project objectives and with frequent changes
of the Mauritanian project director, start-up was extremely slow. After two years, disbursements
picked up because of two factors. First, a new Minister of Plan was anxious to reach agreement
with the Bank on the govemment's long-standing desire for a structural adjustment operation.
Second, with the establishment of a Resident Mission in Nouakchott and the assumption of task
management by the Resident Representative, the overall policy dialogue improved markedly. The
TA H project was tapped as a ready source of funds for a variety of short-term tangible products--
the recovery program for the anticipated Consultative Group Meeting and a series of widely
diverse studies, many of which related to preparation of the Bank's own pipeline, including a first
structural adjustment operation. The original objective of long-term institutional strengthening
seems largely to have been ignored, both by the Bank and by the Govemment.
5.    The project provided a ready source of funding for studies covering a wide range of
important policy areas--public enterprise rehabilitation, private sector incentives, tariff reform,
fisheries and banking sector studies, to name only a few. Many of these served as critical inputs
to the preparation of SAL I. However, contrary to the originally intended structure of annual
work programs submitted for consideration at regular inter-Ministerial review meetings, activities
funded under the project often appear to have been on an ad-hoc basis. Moreover, the training



- iv -
objective, a cornerstone of the original project design, was virtually ignored until just before the
project was due to close, by which time it was clearly too late to make a useful contribution.
6.    It is clear that the Mauritanian Government was not prepared or capable to embark on
a project with such a broadly defined mandate. (In fact, it is doubtful whether such an all-
encompassing operation could have been implemented successfully under any circumstances.) As
highlighted in OED's report on free-standing technical projects in Sub-Saharan Africa, projects
with more limited and clearly focussed objectives designed to provide institutional support to fill
particular gaps have almost always achieved greater success than their more ambitious
counterparts. This was certainly true in this instance.
7.    In the end, the project was implemented largely as a study fund, and as such, it supported
analysis of a number of vital issues, which, in turn, contributed to the design and preparation of
Bank-supported projects. But the implementation context was very different from that envisaged
at appraisal. It is worth noting that, with a few notable exceptions, neither the substance nor the
contribution of the individual activities funded by the project is being impugned. However, it is
difficult to see that the sum of these activities constituted an interrelated program to strengthen
public administrative or economic managerial capacity, which had been the original objective.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1292-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Credit Amount:            SDR 4.1 million
Board Approval:           September 21, 1982
Effectiveness:            March 15, 1984
Original Closing Date:    June 30, 1987
Actual Closing Date:      June 30, 1991
Final Rating:             3 -- No revision proposed
Background and Early Preparation
1.    The Second Technical Assistance Project for Mauritania was prepared from 1979 to 1982,
in the wake of a first Technical Assistance Project (TA I). Because of the strong parallels
between these two operations, it is worthwhile to devote a few introductory remarks to the earlier
project.
2.    TA I (Cr. 664-MAU, approved November 1976, closed June 1981), had been designed
to strengthen economic management, to identify and prepare viable projects to utilize effectively
the then abundant concessionary aid, to rehabilitate key public enterprises and, finally, to train
Mauritanian staff in basic aspects of economic management. However, a number of factors
intervened to hinder the realization of these objectives. The worsening Sahara conflict both
reduced the inflow of foreign aid (especially from Arab sources) and absorbed a greater share of
public finances. Earnings from iron ore exports deteriorated sharply as a result of declining world
market prices and Polisario attacks on port facilities, resulting in increasingly severe budget and
balance of payments deficits. Consequently, a change in the initial objectives of the project
became necessary and the emphasis of the TA project shifted from medium-term institution
strengthening toward "crisis' management of public finances, with the tangible objective of
preparing a financialVeconomic rehabilitation plan.
3.    Although the training objective had been central to TA I, the component itself was
(wisely) modest, namely to train ten MA graduates in macro arfd sectoral planning. However,
some 15 years after Independence, only three suitable candidates had been located and trained
and even these soon left Government service for employment in the banking sector or parapublic
enterprises. In addition, TA I provided scholarships for existing Government staff, but since
Government was unwilling to release staff, this component was significantly underspent. The
inability to achieve even this modest level of training was a recognized failure of TA I and was
a key element in the genesis of TA II.



4.    Two other weaknesses of TA I which were recognized in the PCR1' were its failure to
significantly strengthen macro-economic planning (in particular to relate the impact of the public
expenditure program to an overall macro economic framework) and the absence of a centralized
and systematic project monitoring mechanism. These are worthwhile noting since, as indicated
below, both are repeated in the implementation experience of TA II.
Project Design and Organization
5.    Despite the failure of TA I to meet its stated objectives, the design of the second project
was nearly identical to the first.Y The project's objectives were to (i) formulate and monitor
macro-economic policy; (ii) assist Government to prepare annual investment plans within the
context of the fourth Five Year Development Plan, 1981-85, including strengthening capacity for
sectoral planning and identifying and developing sound investment projects; (iii) continue the
rehabilitation of 20 public enterprises; and (iv) train local staff in the Ministry of Planning in basic
aspects of economic planning/management. To accomplish these objectives, the project was to
provide a four person resident team (a macro economist, two sector specialists, and a financial
analyst); 110 months of short term consultancies, 16 local professional staff-" (12 of whom were
already employed and four of whom were to be recruited), and funds for overseas scholarships,
local training seminars and on-the-job training of counterparts. Project conditionality called for
an annual work program and departmental training proposals to be agreed between IDA and
Govemment, full collaboration between concerned Government agencies with periodic meetings
to review project developments, proposed macro and sectoral strategies, and proposals for
institutional and administrative reforms aimed at increasing the country's absorptive capacity.
6.    TA I attempted to address virtually all aspects of institutional weakness--macro economic
issues, sectoral planning and implementation capacity, institutional organization and public
enterprises. Parallel training efforts were envisaged to build local competence to perform these
functions following project completion. The very limited absorptive capacity of Mauritanian
institutions no doubt explains the desire to address such a broad spectrum of needs. In hindsight,
however, this might equally have signaled the prudence of a more modest project design.
7.    The credit, 1292-MAU, for SDR 4.1 million ($4.6 million equivalent) was approved by the
Board in September 1982. Implementation was expected over a four year period, from 1982-86.
-1'he Project Completion Report for TA I, Report No. 5629, May 3, 1985, alludes to several
weaknesses in project implementation, but concludes that overall the project was successful. The
files for TA II, especially during preparation, are more critical in assessing the weakness of TA
I.
a The OED report, "Free-standing Technical Assistance Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa," April,
1990 notes that in the late 1980s, there were a number of "follow-on" TA projects whose design
reflected previous projects despite a lack of success in the latter.
v' Reluctantly, the concept of salary premia for local staff to be paid by credit proceeds, was
accepted in light of the poor experience of local training under TA I.



- 3 -
In fact, however, the project closed only in June 1991, following three extensions :v. A principal
factor responsible for extending the project period was a grant by the Netherlands in 1986 of
some DFL 5.8 million (US$2.9 million equivalent) which was used to replenish the credit account.
8.    Despite the absence of any special conditions, the project required four delays and some
fifteen months to finally become effective in March 1984. The Government explained these
repeated delays as the result of cumbersome administrative procedures required to set up
accounts with the Central Bank. However, project files suggest an alternative explanation in the
continuing debate (between the Ministry of Planning and the then existing "super" Ministry of
Economy and Finance) on the structure and location of the expatriate team. This issue remained
outstanding after Board approval, despite having been discussed at length and agreed during
preparation. It appears that this was due partly to internal rivalries between the two concerned
Government departments and partly to the desire to isolate the team from day-to-day
administrative responsibilities, since, under the first project, the TA team had assumed many
routine administrative tasks, a factor which was recognized to have seriously limited its
effectiveness.
9.    Even more important in explaining the delayed effectiveness was the Government's strong
reticence over the basic project design. In a letter, dated July 1, 1983, to the Minister of Plan,
the WA2DA Director, states, ". . we understand that one reason for the delay was that some
aspects of the project do not correspond to the Ministry's wishes . . ." The letter goes on to
discuss the Ministry's wish to see permanent expatriate staff reduced and some "reorientation" of
the project's objectives. Subsequent correspondence, also prior to effectiveness, provides further
confirmation that the basic design of the program under the leadership of resident expatriate
team, had not been truly accepted by Mauritania. Contracts were canceled for the two members
of the TA I team which the Bank had anticipated would be extended (funded by the project) as
the core members of the TA II team, thus facilitating early start-up of project activities. At this
point, an alternative suggestion was launched by the Banks which ultimately led to seconding a
Bank staff (financed under the then existing IDA TA program) as a macro-economic advisor in
place of the resident expatriate team.
10.   In parallel with reappraising the resident team, and also prior to effectiveness, the
Government sought the Bank's agreement to reorient the project's objectives. This occurred
against the background of further deterioration of the country's economic and financial position
(resulting from declining levels of external assistance and continuing erosion in world market iron
Y There appears to have been a procedural error in extending this credit; the second extension
was through December 1989 whereas the third extension took effect from June 1989 (to June
1991). It is not clear why neither the Bank nor the Government picked this up.
5' Effectiveness conditions were to establish a Special Account with the Central Bank and a legal
opinion that the DCA was legal and binding.
F An alternative to the resident TA team for the project was suggested supposedly because other
donors, France and Germany, were already providing resident TA--but this TA had been in
Nouakchott throughout project preparation.



- 4 -
ore prices). It was therefore proposed to focus the project on the preparation of a recovery
program for consideration at a forthcoming consultative group meeting, tentatively scheduled for
late 1985 (although it is not clear whether this was meant to replace all other project
components). The Bank apparently agreed to the Government's request, although there is no
formal correspondence in the files modifying either the project description or the disbursement
schedule in the Development Credit AgreemenL
11.   Whatever the merits of these modifications--the elimination of a very costly resident
expatriate team was probably a good decision--it is puzzling that they emerged only after Board
approval, especially since the project preparation had been characterized by staff continuity,
regular field missions and frequent correspondence. The desire to reorient the project
represented an obvious consensus between the Government and the Bank, but, in the absence
of any clearly articulated restatement, by the time implementation actually began, the project's
overall objectives seem to have become somewhat obscured.
Project Implementation
12.   Implementation appears to have undergone three distinct phases. In the first, start-up was
very slow, and was no doubt influenced by the reported poor state of overall relations between
the Bank and Mauritania during this period. For some time following effectiveness the
Government failed to appoint a Project Director (this notably was not specified as a condition
of effectiveness) while continuing to re-examine project design and objectives. Disbursements
through December 1985 were US $1.3 million, of which some $600,000 had refinanced a PPF and
$300,000 had been to pay salaries owed to the expatriate team from TA I, implying "new
disbursements' of only $400,000 in nearly two years of implementation.
13.   Subsequently, disbursements mounted rapidly, principally due to two factors. First, the
newly appointed Minister of Plan was much more anxious to consolidate relations with the Bank
with a view towards reaching agreement on the govemment's long-standing desire for a structural
adjustment operation. Moreover, with the establishment of a Resident Mission in Nouakchott
and the assumption of task management by the Resident Representative, the policy dialogue
intensified markedly.
14.   Nevertheless, as was the case with the first TA project, the longer term institutional
strengthening and training objectives were largely de-emphasized in favor of short-term, more
tangible outputs, as the project seemed no longer to be an institutional strengthening vehicle, but,
rather, a ready source of funding for a series of widely diversified studies, most of which related
to preparation the Bank's own pipeline.2' Between 1986 and 1988/89, studies financed under the
project included: cereals marketing, restructuring of the Commissariat A la Securite Alimentaire
2"In addition to studies, the project also financed a variety of other ad hoc expenditures, including
travel by Mauritanian government officials to come to Washington; such travel included
negotiations of two IDA credits, one PFP, and one donors' meeting related to the Reinsertion
Program. On one such trip, the one official became ill and required hospitalization, the bill for
which the Government attempted to claim under 1292. In another instance, the Government
attempted to claim under 1292 the costs of gifts given to a senior Bank official in the course of
an official visit. Both of these claims were rejected.



(CSA, the food distribution agency), banking sector reforms, regional planning, industrial
incentives, debt management, water supply sector, municipal code, household surveys, fisheries
taxation, preparation of an IDA-supported health project, macro-economic analysis, a feasibility
study for an irrigation project to resettle workers declared redundant in the reorganization of the
Societ6 Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM, see below), a study of the development
potential of the Senegal Valley region following the completion of the Manantali Dam (Etude
Apres-Barrage--this absorbed most of the Dutch grant), an audit of the Societ6 Nationale d'Eau
et d'Electricite (SONELEC), sulphur exploration, local government employment creation and a
rural development fund. While many of these supported the preparation of a first SAL and/or
preparations for the Consultative Group meeting, a large measure of expediency is apparent in
determining what would and would not be financed under the project.
15.    The ad-hoc nature and sectoral diversity of many project activities and the fact that they
mainly supported the Bank's pipeline suggests that the ownership of the project rested much
more with the Bank than with the Govemment. Since the funded activities (mainly studies) were
dispersed among a variety of Ministries/Departments, many organizational units had a small stake
in the project, but none carried major responsibility for it. This aspect was reinforced by the
continual changes in project director, a position which had been subsumed within the portfolio
of the Secretary General of Ministry of Planning. Frequent cabinet reshuffles resulted in new
Ministers of Plan which, in tum, resulted in new Secretaries General who assumed this as one
of many responsibilities.
16.   In the final phase of implementation, 1989-91, with some considerable urging from
Government, the credit closing date was extended a third timeW mainly to permit funding of the
recurrent costs of the Reinsertion Program,9' although a number of studies were also being
finalized during this final stage. Eventually some $0.6 million was allocated mainly for office
equipment and local staff salaries. While ownership of the project clearly shifted back to the
Govemment, the project again functioned largely as an ad hoc funding source for operating costs
and equipment procurement; project correspondence during this period seldom emerges from a
very pedestrian (and not always cordial) exchange on equipment specifications and what can and
cannot be financed under the project.
17.   At no time during project implementation was the agreed structure-- namely, submission
of annual work programs for IDA's approval, periodic inter-Ministerial meetings to review project
developments, and formulation of training programs (keyed to institutional strengthening as well
as individual skill-building)--enforced. Only one file document--prior to effectiveness--requests
that the Ministry of Plan submit its work program for the period June 1984-June 1985; this
appears never to have been submitted by Government nor followed up by IDA. Throughout the
remainder of implementation, no further references to such periodic review appear in project
Y Under recent guidelines, extension of the closing date under these circumstances, i.e. the
existence of an unutilized balance, destined to support an activity not envisaged at the time of
appraisal and in fact of dubious relation to the stated project objectives, would be very
questionable.
2' This program aimed to facilitate the reabsorption into economic employment of returnees from
Senegal following the 1989 disturbances.



files. The reasons for this are not clear; there appears simply to have been no demand for the
originally conceived design. Perhaps more than any other factor, this demonstrates the ad-hoc
nature of this operation which was accepted by both Government and IDA. It must be noted that
with the Resident Mission responsible for project management, the project was closely supervised;
but this is not equivalent to internal coordination and monitoring within the Mauritanian
administration.
18.   With regard to training, the alleged cornerstone of project preparation, immediately
following effectiveness a (very) few scholarships were approved. Thereafter, this aspect was
virtually ignored until the very end of project implementation, when the Resident Representative
task manager requested the Ministry of Plan to submit its training program. The Ministry
responded with a list of individuals for foreign training, but without linking the training proposal
to any institution building impact. This issue generated a fair amount of (sometimes acrimonious)
correspondence toward the end of the project period, but the files do not suggest that any
adequate explanation was ever provided to Government of what was being sought--a program of
training aimed at institutional, rather than individual, training. In fairness to the Government,
this was much too late to resuscitate this objective when the project was about to close.
19.   In the area of financial management (a continuing problem area noted in the FY91 ARIS
country review), repeated difficulties were experienced with timely provision of counterpart funds
with Government, on occasion, using the special account as a source of bridging finance. On the
other hand, audit compliance throughout the project was generally very good.
20.   The closing date of the project was extended three times, thereby doubling the
implementation period. Much of the explanation for this resides in the provision by the
Netherlands of a $2.9 million grant which was added to and disbursed along with the IDA credit.
However, it is also striking that each request for a delay in the closing date, beginning in June
1987, is accompanied by the assurance that credit proceeds were fully committed.
Project Results
21.   To assess whether TA II met its intended results, it is necessary to clarify what in fact
these were. The reorientation of the project, but with no modification to the legal description,
contributed to a somewhat murky implementation context with considerable scope for
interpretation in deciding what qualified as legitimate use of credit proceeds.
22.   In a literal sense, some of the intended reoriented results were achieved--formulation of
an economic recovery program and preparation of a consultative group meeting. However, the
original objective of sustainable improvement in the country's economic management and sectoral
planning capability was, at best, addressed only indirectly--through the policy aspects of those
IDA-supported projects whose preparation was financed under the TA project. Herein lies the
project's major contribution--it provided an easily accessible source of funding for studies in a
wide range of important policy areas: public enterprise rehabilitation, the incentive structure for
private sector, tariff reform, fisheries and banking sector studies, household surveys under the
SDA program, agricultural potential in the Senegal River Valley, regional planning,
decentralization toward municipal authorities and population and health. These studies made
essential contributions to the preparation of the first SAL operation, to the Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project, the AGSECAL, and the Health/Population



Project. To the extent these operations have strengthened macro-economic management and
sectoral planning capacity, TA II was a significant contributing factor. But the context in which
this took place was very different from the intended one. Instead of an annual joint review by
Bank and Government to assess the priority of project activities as they related to the overall
objectives of the project, the task manager seems to have been the principal decision maker,
accepting or rejecting discrete proposals, mainly from Bank staff, when funding was required.
There appears, in general, to have been little dialogue between Government and the Bank on
what activities would be funded.
23.   It is worth underscoring that neither the substance nor the contributions of the individual
activities funded by the project is being impugned; but there appears to have been little or no
consideration to whether the sum of these activities constituted an interrelated program to
strengthen public administrative or managerial capacity.
24.   The decision to fund the Reinsertion Program in retrospect appears questionable. With
no obvious link to developmental objectives, this decision reflects the Bank's desire to support
the Government, along with other donors, during a time of crisis. While the reinsertion program
represented a significant political statement at the time by the Government, its development
impact some two years later is negligible. It is estimated that of the approximately 150,000 1w'
returnees, the Reinsertion Program office estimates less than 2000 received training and only
about 10% of the families received assistance in agricultural settlements.
25.   The training objective which was emphasized so heavily during preparation was virtually
ignored until the very end of the project period when it was too late to have any impact. The
final rating of this project--a poor "3"--was based on the failure to achieve its training objective.
This appears in hindsight to have been a somewhat self-serving statement by the Bank, who, like
the Government, failed to follow this aspect of the project. In many ways, the on-going
Development Management Project was conceived as a third attempt to deal with the issue of
institutional strengthening in Mauritania, and it will be for the PCR of that project to assess the
Bank's success in its training efforts in Mauritania.
Sustainability
26.   Since the project was implemented essentially as a study fund, by itself and directly, it had
no sustainable impact. Many studies made valuable contributions to a number of operations. To
the extent that these operations have positive sustainable impact, TA II was a contributing factor.
A few studies, however, not only did not contribute obviously to either a Bank-supported or
Government program, but were also of very questionable value by themselves; the most obvious
examples include the "amenagement du territoire" and the SNIM-irrigation scheme.
Contributions to the Reinsertion Program (and the Program itself) have had no sustainability
impact. Finally, the Bank's acceptance of utilizing project funds for travel expenses, had no
sustainable impact, but, more importantly, in all likelihood has a negative impact on the objective
of promoting disciplined financial management.
2' Current estimates of retumees from Senegal vary widely, from less than 100,000 to 200,000.



- 8 -
27.   With respect to the sustainability of the studies (or the results thereof), one important
qualification is worth noting. As far back as the mid-1980s, the issues highest on the reform
agenda were planning and monitoring public expenditures within the framework of a realistic
public investment program, and urgent reforms in the fishing and banking sectors--exactly the
same issues now confronting Mauritania. The similarities between the fishing and banking sector
issues then and now are particularly salienL It is certainly not proposed to attribute the failure
to resolve these issues to TA H, but to point out that however valuable studies are in clarifying
issues, they cannot, by themselves, resolve issues. In this case, despite considerable efforts, the
apparent lack of progress in redressing the most pressing constraints frustrating economic growth
is very striking.
Bank Performance
28.   The most obvious question about the Bank's performance is why, throughout the
preparation of the project, was the Government's commitment to the original project conception
not assessed properly. Subsequently, it is equally unclear why no ostensible effort was made to
reformulate the project to preserve, at least partially, the original objectives, albeit using different
vehicles to deliver technical assistance, or if technical assistance was no longer a priority, to
redefine the project.
29.   With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the Government was not ready to embark
on a project with such a broad mandate. The explanations for such a comprehensive project
design are obvious--this was the "reigning" TA model of the time. Moveover, the limited number
of projects which can be accommodated in a program as small as Mauritania's encourage a
christmas tree approach. OED's report "Free-Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional
Development In Sub-Saharan Africa" (April 1990) stresses that free-standing TA projects are
most successful when countries have some strategy of institutional development. Moreover, even
under these circumstances, projects with limited, clearly focussed objectives designed to provide
institutional support to fill particular gaps have almost always been more successful than more
ambitious efforts. Mauritania, with its very low level of institutional capacity, clearly lacked such
a sense of direction for usefully benefitting from such comprehensive technical assistance.
Borrower Performance
30.    Human resource development and institution/capacity building are the most pressing long
term priorities for Mauritania's development. From this perspective, failure to utilize this project
to its full advantage represents a lost opportunity. Especially during the latter stages of project
implementation, the project seldom dealt with issues other than the level of staff salaries and the
purchase of office furniture and equipment.
Project Relations
31.    Generally, relations between Mauritania and the Bank relating to this project appear to
have been amicable, with the possible exception of isolated instances very late in the project
period.



-9 -
Consulting Services
32.   Overall, the many consultants working on various studies under the project appeared to
have performed satisfactorily. In very few cases do the files suggest that either the Government
or the Bank were dissatisfied with their performance, the timeliness of submission of reports or
the quality of work performed. There are a number of fairly provocative references in the files
which suggest that relations between the Government and the two members of the TA I team
who were originally intended to remain as the core members of a TA II team were poor. This,
however, remained unexplained and whether or not this was a critical factor determining the
Government's decision to modify the project concept is not clear from the files.
Documentation and Resources Data for Preparing PCR
33.   Source material for this PCR were files in the Resident Mission and at headquarters and
interviews with Mauritanian and Bank staff familiar with the operation. The completeness of files
in the Resident Mission and at headquarters varies markedly; hopefully the two together
represent a reasonably complete picture. Contacting Bank staff familiar with the project was not
difficult; however, the long project period and the many changes in Project Director severely
handicapped the ability to contact Mauritanians who worked on the project, especially early in
the implementation period.
Conclusions
34.   The last supervision report rated the TA II project at "3", as a result of its failure to meet
the training objective. This report recommends maintaining this rating, but for more fundamental
reasons, namely that it was implemented in a largely ad-hoc manner, which contributed little to
a sustainable improvement in the country's human resource base. The original project design was
so broad to have rendered clarity of purpose and financial discipline during implementation
almost impossible. However, a more appropriate response would seem to have been to
revise/simplify the project within the context of more limited and realistic objectives, which could
have been better monitored by the Government and by the Bank.



- 10 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following is a direct and unedited translation of the Borrower's assessment of the
project. The French version is attached as Annex.
Observations on Credit 1292
The project consisted of an integrated program of technical assistance with the objective
of aiding Mauritania to strengthen its capacity for economic planning and execution of projects.
The project, which closed in June 1991, was supposed to furnish assistance to the Ministry
[of Plan] in the following areas:
1.    Assistance in formulating programs of structural reforms and public investments;
2.    Improving the data base for analyzing and monitoring public investments;
3.    Specialized training of selected personnel of the Ministry of Plan with fellowship
grants, seminars, and workshops on preparing and monitoring projects;
4.    Logistical support for different activities of the Minister of Plan with respect to
managing economic reform programs. But the project deviated from these
objectives.
In spite of undertaking important sectoral and socio-economic studies, e.g. the Post-Dam
study, preparation of the HealthlPopulation Project, and SDA household surveys, banking reform,
the project in large measure provided logistical support to a different bureau within the Ministry
of Plan.
Thus the objective of monitoring public investment programs with an improved statistical
data base was quickly abandoned.
Also the funds allocated to training (fellowships and seminars) were hardly utilized. The
results of the project in this area were not attained.
The deviation of the project from its objectives is due largely to instability within the
Ministry of Plan, the implementing Ministry, which was reflected at the project level by
inadequate monitoring of project activities.
It should also be noted that the project was not adequately supervised by the Bank.
At present, the project still carries a debt of UM 8.5 million, some eight months after
project closing."'
*u The Borrower has been advised on several occasions that the credit has been fully disbursed.



- 11 -
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credit:
Technical Assistance I, Credit No. 664-MAU; approved November 1976; closed June 1981. Project
design and implementation experience were very similar to TA II.
2.    Project Timetable                     Original     Actual
Identification                         09/80       09/80
Appraisal                              07/81       07/81
Negotiations                           06/82       06/82
Board Approval                         09/82       09/82
Effectiveness                          12/82       03/84
Closing                                06/87       06/91
Completion                             12/87       12/91
3.    Cumulative Credit Disbursement -- US$ Million
FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92
(i)   Planned      1.0   2.3   3.5   4.6
(ii)   Actual      0.0   0.8   1.2   1.5   2.3   3.4   4.8   6.0   7.2   7.6
(iii)   Act. as %
of Planned   --    34    34    33
Date of Final Disbursement: December 2, 1991
N.B. The above disbursements include an addition of some $2.9 million equivalent from the
proceeds of a Dutch grant which was added to the credit proceeds and disbursed as
commingled funds. For this reason, no attempt was made to calculate actual disbursements
as a percentage of planned disbursements after FY86.
4.    Project Implementation
Not applicable. At the time of project preparation it was not the practice to define quantifiable
indicators to monitor implementation performance.



- 12 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
Original    Disbursed    Canceled     Repaid  Outstanding
IDA Credit No. 1292-MAU        $4.6 mil       4.7         0.0          0.0         4.6
Dutch Grant                     2.9 mil       2.9         n.a.         n.a         n.a.
Local Contribution              0.0 mil       n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
6.    Project Results
A. Direct Benefits:        N/A
B. Economic Rate of Return:  N/A
C. Financial Rate of Return:  N/A
D. Studies:
Name of Study            Purpose            Status       Impact of Study
1. Cereals Marketing     Liberalize cereals  Complete   Preparation AGSECAL
marketing procedures
nationally.
2. Restructure CSA       Improve efficiency of Complete   CSA restructured; role redefined
food aid distribution.         solely to provide food to isolated
areas during food crisis.
3. Banking Sector Reform   Strengthen banking   Complete   Prepared component of SAL I.
sector; improve    (Initial     Follow-on measures to be included
regulatory framework. phase)    in private sector project.
4. Regional Planning     Examine development Complete    Helped to prepare component of
potential of major geo-         Development Management Project
graphic areas.
5. Industrial Incentives  Review Investment   Complete   Prepared new investment code;
Code.                           implemented under SAL 1.
6. Extemal Debt          Improve management Complete   Initial implementation
Management             of external debt.               under SAL I.
7. Water Sector Study    Strengthen          Complete   InitialimplementationunderPublic
SONELEC.                       Enterprise Rehab. & TA Proj;
follow-on under PESECAL.
8. Municipal Code         Examine municipal   Complete   Study incorporated into Devel.
finance procedures.             Management project



- 13 -
Name of Study            Purpose            Status       Impact of Study
9. Household Expenditure   Survey hsehld. expend. Complete   Foundation of SDA work;
Survey                  to monitor impact of            regular survey established.
adjustment measures
on poor segments
of population.
10. Fisheries Taxation   Compare taxation of  Study never
Mauritanian industry  completed.
w/ other countries.
11. Health-Population    Prepare Health/Pop.  Complete   He a It h / P o p  p r o j.  now
Project.           effective.
12. Resettlement of      Resettle laid-off    Complete   Implemented.
SNIM Workers           SNIM workers on
agriculture project
13. Post-Dam Study       Examine agricultural  Complete   Initial implementation
development potential           under AGSECAL; follow-on
of Senegal River Valley         under subsequent projects.
after OMVS development.
14. SONELEC audit        Strengthen financial  Complete   Implemented under PE Rehab &
mgt of SONELEC.                TA   project;  followed  by
Nouakchott Water Project
15. Sulphur exploration  Assess possible     Complete   Found in uneconomic deposits.
sulphur resources.
16. Rural development fund  Job creation in rural  Complete   Only partially implemented due
areas.                          to shortage of donor financing.
7.  Status of Covenants
Compliance with legal covenants was generally good. However, three covenants appear not to have
been respected either by the Borrower or by IDA. These were Sections 3.07 and 3.11 which called for
annual submission to IDA of annual work programs and assessments of staff performance and Section
3.09 which called for the submission to IDA of an incentive system to reward staff.



- 14 -
8.  Mission Data
Staff        No.         No.        Report
Date        Weeks        Staff        Weeks       Date
Preparation          09/80         2            2            4         11/80
Appraisal            07/81         2            2            4          N/A
Supervision **
Completion           12/91         1            1            1         03/92
* * The project was task managed from the Resident Mission in Nouakchott. As such there were few formal
supervision missions, although close contact between Government and Bank staff responsible for
implementation of the various project components was maintained throughout the project period.
9. Follow-On Operations
The Second Technical Assistance Project contributed to a number of projects/programs subsequently
supported by IDA. These include the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1567-MAU, $16.4 million of March 1985), SAL I (Cr. 1812-MAU and SFA Cr. A028-
MAU, June 1987, for $15 million and $27.4 million respectively), the Development Management
Project (Cr. 1865-MAU, November 1987 for $10.0 million), and the Health Population Project (Cr.
2311-MAU, November 1991, for $15.7 million).



- 15 -
ANNEX
Page 1 of 2
OBSERVATIONS SUR LE PROJET KAU 1292
Le  p roJe t consl s tai t en un pro grammRe  Ll t9 Ygre da s   .s -.inc:e
f J-hngque dont le but est d'aider la HauriLtanie J renforcer sa
,:-jc:te de planification gconomique et d'epxcut ion des p.-c;jes.
Le projet clotur6  en juin  1991  dev-. zt .t,~;urnir tLn .,5  'e
2r+ci:leux sux activites du Minist6re dans les d:omaines sujia,r s-S
I- Expert.lses ponctuelles pour 1 'e1aboraticn de progreaa:nnes
d'investissements publics et la formulation de reformres
structurelles;
2- Mise en place d'un suivi d'analyse et de suivi des ;,cxzts
d'investissements par le biais notamment d'une amel u.ration
des bases de donnees disponibles;
2- Formation spOcialis6e du personnel du Minisstdre du Pldr paJx
le biais de 1 'octroi de bourses d'#tudes et le financement
de s6minaires et ateliers sur la pr6paration et la gest.ion
des pro jets;
4- Appu. Zogistique aux diff6rentes activits du Pfinlstze cdu
Plan, en mati6re de gestion des programmes de redressement
6conomique. Mals le projet semble d6vier peu A peu le -es
cbjets.
Er effet,  en d6pit de la rOalisation d'iinportanlta, ct':da's
.sectorielles et enqu6tes socio-economiques telles que 1 'Etude Apz,s
Farrage,  1'Etude  de  Pr4paration  du  Polet  Sante  Pcopulatzon.
ESnquite permanente sur las Conditions de Vie des Merjages '. '.,',',
'F,tude de Redressement du Syst6me Bancaire..   le Projet: 5'e5c
-:}:nt6 presqrue exclusivement  vers le  soutlen log.stique  -par
Ailleurs prOcieux- prodigu6 aux diffdrentes directions du Mini1,5:re
..; Plan.
C'est   ainsi   que   l'objectif   de   sU u I,v   des   i          L. ;i
- nvestissement par le biais de la mise en place d'une Aba c- iJ
rI,nees jUIspcnirles a 6t6 tr6s vite abandorne.
Auss:i le  uLIdget cons5acr-  c la format_cn n'a 6t3 ati_.hs: q' e
C >~s part e~ ~.m.. t Idns 1'oct--oi de bourses ot 'e financei.u;lt Jos
s8imindires.  Les, r0sultats sont largement en dega de l bect:
~,,1tiai assign4 du pr ujer dans ce domaine.



- 16 -
ANNEX
Page 2 of 2
ba Je iat2cv   du projet de ses objet-ct-   *-  depi-  es- 
qr.de p3-tie J 1 'instabilitg dans 1 'adminiscration du Mtnistre d6
7T(tele du projet, entrainant par la mLme occasilon une instab.1 LU-e
&a rjiveau de la direction du projet lui mnmi&e et un marique ce suiv:
de ses op6rations qui en dgcoule.
II  est  aussi  J  noter  que  les  mLIsi2n.:   d' ;'- 'u(t l.-r.  4
n?'parcours de la banque ont tres vite cess;i de s'interessei 3r,
,rr r7et.
Actuellement  le  projet  continue  A  t1aJ.nneir  des  d.-?7        de
5OO.00Q  r,ouguiyas et ce 8 mois apr6s sa cll3ture.



