CREDIT NUMBER 1292 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                   1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1292 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       TA              6 , c, 1982,
between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted- to the Borrower by the Association
pursuant to the letter dated June 21, 1982;
(b)  "MP" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for planning;
(c) "DEP" means Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation
within MP;
(d) "DP" means Direction des Projets within MP; and
(e)  "Para-Public Sector" means all 6tablissements publics
as defined in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Borrower's Loi
No. 77046, dated February 21, 1967 and all societes d'6conomie
mixtes established under the laws of the Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Proj-
ect Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a separate treasury account (the Special Account) on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the
Project and to be financed under Categories (2) through (4) of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of the Schedule hereto in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 hereto, but no such
payments shall be made after the Closing Date.
(d) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the cur-
rency of the Borrower equivalent to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000). Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the
Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account, such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments


﻿-3-
made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
under Categories (2) through (4) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto.      Except as the Association
shall otherwise determine, each such deposit after the initial
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account, in the same respective amounts as have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documentsT statements of
expenditure as referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project under Catego-
ries (2) through (4) of the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from
the Credit Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless
otherwise determined by the Association, prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (d) and
(f) of this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account
shall be made by the Association if the Association shall have
notified the Borrower that it has determined that all further
withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(h) If the Association shall not have received, within
ninety days after the Closing Date or within ninety days of the
date of a notification as referred to in paragraph (f) of this
Section, whichever date shall be the earlier, the evidence
required pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section in respect of


﻿-4-
any amount deposited in the Special Account in accordance with
the provisions of this Section, or if any amount is to be paid by
the Borrower after the Closing Date or the date of such notifica-
tion pursuant to paragraph (f) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, repay to the
Association, the equivalent of such amount, as of the date of
such notice, in the currency specified in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement (or the currency designated or selected instead thereof
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions); any such repayment to the Association shall be
credited to the Credit Account.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such  later  date  as   the Association   shall  establish.    The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after th- date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1993, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial praccices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that all of its ministries including those responsible for
education, equipment, mides and energy, and rural development
cooperate fully in the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project.
Section 3.02. Without* any limitation on the generality of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) open a separate treasury account (the Borrower's
Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association; and
(ii) make at least quarterly deposits into the Bor-
rower's Account on the basis of cash forecasts
regarding expenditures for the immediately follow-
ing   quarterly  period   and   documentation   for
expenditures   incurred  during   the  immediately
preceeding quarterly period, such deposits shall
be sufficient to meet the Borrower's contribution
for the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 6-
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts including a general economist, two sectoral economists
and a financial analyst, whose selection, qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure: (i) that the general econo-
mist, the two sectoral economists and the financial analyst
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall, as a team, be
attached to MP; (ii) that one of such experts shall be selected
to act as leader of such team; and (iii) that such team leader
shall, at all times, exercise appropriate power and authority to
carry out his or her obligations as set forth in his or her terms
of reference.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and


﻿- 7 -
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at semiannual
intervals progress reports and all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed ouc of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.06. By January   31, 1983, or such other date as
the Association may ag:ee, the Borrower shall, in carrying out
Part D.1 of the Project, employ four Mauritanian professionals,
whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) By December 31 of each year during
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare an
annual work program for each professional staff member within DP
and DEP.
(b) The Borrower shall review, annually and on the basis of
said work programs, the performance of the staff members referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times,
the responsibilities and authority of each department within MP
are clearly defined.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall prepare a reward system
offering adequate incentives to the staff of DP and DEP and
exchange views on such reward system with the Association by
December 31, 1984, and the Borrower shall carry out such reward
system by October 31, 1986 and thereafter.
Section 3.10. (a) In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project
the Borrower shall grqnt scholarships for training programs
acceptable to the Association to individuals whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its
approval detaiied proposals for the training programs to be
carried out under Part D.3 of the Project.
Section 3.11. By June 30 of each year or such other date as
the Association may reasonably request during execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare an annual work program
satisfactory to the Association, including, a detailed forecast
of expenditures therefor, setting forth all activities, including
training, to be undertaken by the Borrower in the carrying out cf
the Project during the immediately following year.
Section 3.12. (a) By June 30, 1983, the Borrower shall, in
carrying out Part B.6 of the Project, submit to the Association
for its comments a proposal for the procedure to review public
investments.
(b) The Borrower shall establish the procedure referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section by December 31, 1983.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures under Categories (3) and (4) (b) on


﻿-9-
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from  the   Credit  Account   on  the  basis   of  statements   of
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Special Account and the Borrower's Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said separate accounts, records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
. ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section  5.01.   The  followfirg--ev-ents  are  specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has opened the Special Account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower has deposited the initial amount of fifty
thousand dollars equivalent into the Borrower's Account.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. The date                              is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section       12.04 of te General
Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.08 and 3.09 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purpose. of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire
B. P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                        Telex:
MPDI                                 540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /-/
Regional Vice President
Western AFrica


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              2,650,000                 100%
services under
Parts A, B and
C of the Project,
including the
auditing required
under Section
4.01 (c) of this
Agreement
(2) Equipment and               100,000                 100%
vehicles
(3) Operating costs
under Parts A,
B and C of the
Project
(a) office supplies         50,000                  54%
(b) special staff           70,000                 100%
allowances
(c) fuel and main-          35,000                  54%
tenance costs
(d) secretarial            150,000                  89%
services


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(4) Training
(a) Consultants'            30,000                 100%
services,
under Part D
of the Project
(b) operating costs         60,000                  54%
including office
supplies under
Part D of the
Project
(c)  scholarships          175,000                 100%
(5) Initial deposit              90,000
into the Special
Account
(6) Refunding of Project        445,000            Amount due
Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                 245,000
TOTAL     4,100,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made prior to
the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such CPte-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower,  cancel   such  amount  of   the  Credit   as,  in   the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of an integrated program of technical
assistance to help the Borrower to strengthen its economic
planning and project preparation and implementation capability.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   National Macroeconomic Policy
Strengthening of MP's capability to monitor the macro-
economic situation and identification of structural
reforms to be undertaken to improve the financial and
economic basis of the Borrower.
Part B:   National Development Planning
1.   Assistance for the annual review of the Fourth Five-
year National Investment Plan and for the implementa-
tion thereof.
2.   Carrying out of studies to formulate institutional and
administrative reforms, necessary to establish improved
development planning and improved supervision of the
execution of public investment projects estimated to
cost three million dollars equivalent or more.
3.   Carrying out of feasibility studies for investment
projects.
4.   Coordination of the national development planning and
the sectoral investment planning being undertaken by
planning   units  within   the   Borrower's  ministries
including the ministries rebponsible for education,
equipment, mines and energy and rural development.
5.   Improvement of DP's capacity to monitor and analyze
investment projects, including the improvement of DP's
data collection and processing system.
6.   Establishment of a procedure to review the economic
viability of each public investment estimated to cost
three million dollars equivalent or more.


﻿-1.6 -
Part C    Para-Public Sector
1.   Assistance  to  implement  an  accounting  system  for
enterprises in the Para-Public Sector.
2.   Preparation of contrats-programme to be entered into
between the Borrower and enterprises of the Para-Public
Sector and monitoring of the execution of such
contrats-programme; said contrats-programme to specify,
inter alia, the management's objectives of the enter-
prises and the Borrower's financial obligations vis-a-
vis said enterprises.
Part D    Training
1.   On-the-job training of four qualified professionals
within DP and DEP.
2.   Scholarships not exceeding two years to be granted to
individuals having participated successfully in the
training to be carried out under Part D.1 of the
Project or having been at least one year staff members
of a ministry of the Borrower.
3.   Carrying  out   of  seminars  dealing  with  planning,
preparation and management of projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   All contracts for the supply of goods except as provided in
paragraph B of this Schedule shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Association.
B.   Contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $10,000 may be awarded on the basis of
local shopping in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association' s concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 18 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph,  the   Borrower  shall  furnish   to  the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determinati n.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 022     day of2      , 198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


