                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR2392



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF058085)

                                            ON A

                                          GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION


                                          TO THE

                                 LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

              WEST BEKA’A EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT



                                      November 14, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
        REPUBLIC OF LEBANON – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1st – December 31th

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 14, 2012)
            Currency Unit                   Lebanese Pound
               US$1.00                        LBP 1,500

                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                           METRIC SYSTEM

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRWA     Beka’a Regional Water Authority
BWWP     Ba’albeck Water and Wastewater Project
CDR      Council for Development and Reconstruction
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FM       Financial Management
GOL      Government of Lebanon
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB      Islamic Development Bank
IO       Intermediate Outcome Indicator
KFAED    Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KM       Kilometers
MOEW     Ministry of Energy and Water
PDO      Project Development Objectives
MG       Milligrams
ML       Milliliters
PMT      Project Management Team
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RWA      Regional Water Authority
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
WA       Withdrawal Application
WHO      World Health Organization



          Vice President:             Inger Andersen
          Country Director:           Ferid Belhaj
          Acting Sector Manager:      Richard Pollard
          Project Team Leader:        Claire Kfouri
          ICR Team Leader:            Claire Kfouri
                                               REPUBLIC OF LEBANON

                             West Beka'a Emergency Water Supply Project

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. v

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 17
  Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 3. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Economic and Financial Justification ........................................................... 23
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR ........................................................................ 26
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
  Annex 7: Map ............................................................................................................... 29
A. Basic Information
                                                                        West Beka'a
Country:                Lebanon                 Project Name:           Emergency Water
                                                                        Supply Project
Project ID:             P103885                 L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-58085
ICR Date:               11/14/2012              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                        LEBANESE
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                        REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 15.00M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 14.91M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 15.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Energy and Water
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
Beka'a Regional Water Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Kuwait Arab Fund for Economic Development (KAFED)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/19/2007     Effectiveness:                                08/02/2007
                                                                                   02/12/2010
Appraisal:            02/06/2007     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   11/07/2011
Approval:             03/20/2007     Mid-term Review:         02/03/2010           02/09/2011
                                     Closing:                 05/20/2010           05/20/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                       Substantial
Bank Performance:                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
                            Moderately                              Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                          Unsatisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision:     Moderately     Implementing        Moderately Satisfactory


                                                i
                               Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                    Moderately            Overall Borrower               Moderately
Performance:                   Unsatisfactory         Performance:                  Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                                     Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                                      No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                    5                     5
Water supply                                                             95                 95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                                  25                   25
Other human development                                                  50                   50
Pollution management and environmental health                            25                   25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                            At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:            Ferid Belhaj                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:              Richard W. Pollard                    Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:         Claire Kfouri                         Mohammed Benouahi
ICR Team Leader:             Claire Kfouri
ICR Primary Author:          Samantha M. Constant

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

1.      As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD): "The development objective
of the government program for the West Beka'a and World Bank-financed project is to
alleviate the precarious conditions of the area's water supply systems, which have been

                                                  ii
further aggravated by hostilities and long-term neglect. More specifically, the project was
expected to improve health conditions of the population of the West Beka'a through the
provision of non-contaminated water in increased quantities by completely rehabilitating
the area's water network."

2.      The Results Framework more simply expressed the PDO as: "Improved health
conditions of population living in the project area." It then proposed the three outcome
indicators evaluated below. None of the indicators attempts to measure health outcomes,
but the first two could be interpreted as indicators of health conditions related to network
water supply.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target              Formally       Actual Value
                                        Values (from                Revised         Achieved at
  Indicator        Baseline Value
                                          approval                   Target        Completion or
                                         documents)                  Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Quality of Water (WHO standards met)
                                                                                   Nitrates: &lt;10
                                             Nitrates: &lt;10
Value                                                                              mg/l
                Nitrates: 100 mg/l           mg/l
quantitative or                                                         N/A        F. Coliform:
                F. Coliform: 10/100 ml.      F. Coliform:
Qualitative)                                                                       &lt;1/100 ml (but
                                             &lt;1/100 ml
                                                                                   see comments)
Date achieved             05/26/2007              05/20/2010                            05/20/2012
Comments          Results show that levels of nitrate across the network are well under 10 mg/l and
(incl. %          total coliforms average &lt;1/100 ml per month. Residual chlorine is not detected
achievement)      in some network water test results
Indicator 2 :     Quantity of water supplied
                                                                                   Per capita delivery
                  Per capita delivery of     Per capita delivery
Value                                                                              of water to
                  water within project area: of water within
quantitative or                                                         N/A        subscribers in the
                  60 liters per capita per   project area: 100
Qualitative)                                                                       project area:
                  day (60 l/c/d)             l/c/d
                                                                                   &gt;100 l/c/d.
Date achieved             05/26/2007              05/20/2010                            05/20/2012
                  The Chamsine Spring plant has a daily production capacity of over 19,000 m3.
Comments
                  As the estimated 16,962 households in the service area have an average 5
(incl. %
                  residents each, delivering 100 liters daily per capita requires less than 8,500
achievement)
                  m3/day.
Indicator 3 :     Increase number of households legally connected to the water supply network
Value
quantitative or              30%                        90%            N/A               32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/27/2007              05/20/2010                          05/20/2012


                                                  iii
Comments        As the utility continued distributing water through the old network, the utility has
(incl. %        yet to meet its goal of increasing the proportion of households legally connected
achievement)    to the new network.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Implementation progress is satisfactory and works contracts awarded without
Indicator 1 : delays.
                                            Timeliness in
                                            works schedule                     Despite delays,
Value
                                            and project is                     project was 100%
(quantitative                0%                                      N/A
                                            expected to be                     completed by loan
or Qualitative)
                                            100% completed                     closing.
                                            by loan closing.
Date achieved           03/01/2007              05/20/2010                          05/20/2012
Comments
                Political tensions and security concerns resulted in a two-year delay in
(incl. %
                completing the project infrastructure.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Percentage of households in the project area with meters installed.
Value
(quantitative                0%                     90%              N/A               32%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           03/01/2007              05/20/2010                          05/20/2012
Comments
                Each legally connected household is metered. This indicator thus tracks PDO
(incl. %
                Indicator 3.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : The number of kilometers (km) of water supply network rehabilitated.
                                            29 km of
                                                                               20 km of
Value                                       transmission lines
                                                                               transmission and
(quantitative              0% km            and 80 km of             N/A
                                                                               174 km of
or Qualitative)                             distribution lines
                                                                               distribution lines
                                            rehabilitated.
Date achieved           03/01/2007              05/20/2010                          05/20/2012
Comments        Network design was modified during implementation, reducing the total length
(incl. %        of transmission lines to be constructed but increasing the length of distribution
achievement) lines. In most cases, new lines were laid rather than rehabilitating old lines.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            0.00
  2     12/05/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.00

                                                iv
  3    06/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory     0.26
  4    12/30/2008       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory     0.29
  5    06/15/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            0.33
  6    11/25/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory     2.46
  7    05/11/2010   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory            2.49
  8    01/19/2011       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            7.11
  9    12/20/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    10.69
 10    04/15/2012   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    12.80

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of closing date due to
 02/12/2010       N       MS    MS            2.47   implementing delays caused by
                                                     political and security issues.
                                                     Extension of closing date due to
 11/07/2011       N       S       S          10.27   implementing delays caused by
                                                     political and security issues.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.      Lebanon has long suffered from serious challenges in the provision of potable
water, including gaps in distributional equity across regions, poor quality and intermittent
supply. Among the regions recognized for poor water quality and intermittent supply of
water was the West Beka’a Valley, a region also suffering from pockets of extreme
poverty and economic hardship. In 2007, the average access rate for network water
supply was at 68%, considerably lower than all other regions in the country. Furthermore,
those with access were being provided with water that studies showed met neither World
Health Organization (WHO) nor Lebanese drinking water standards.                      These
environmental challenges compounded the economic and social hardships faced by
residents in this area where a substantial number of residents were reported to live below
the extreme poverty line and illiteracy was as high as 35%.

2.      In the late 1990s, the Government of Lebanon (GoL) developed a two-track
approach to addressing water and sanitation challenges both nationally and in the Beka’a
specifically. The World Bank assisted with both tracks and provided technical assistance
support to the Ministry of Energy and Water (MOEW) for the design and implementation
of critical sector reforms. The World Bank further financed: (i) the 1993 Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) which supported Lebanon’s massive
post-war reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts, (ii) the 2002 Ba’albeck Water and
Wastewater Project (BWWP) to improve urban water and sanitation services in the
Beka’a area and; (iii) the 2006 West Beka’a Emergency Water Supply Project.

3.      GoL’s first track focused on institutional change. In 2000, Parliament passed a
new water sector law (Water Law 221) designed to improve efficiency in service
provision, in part through consolidating many small utilities into Regional Water
Authorities (RWAs). In the Beka’a, the Beka’a Regional Water Authority (BRWA) was
formed in 2001 to take on the role of service provision for some 572,000 people,
absorbing 3 utilities plus smaller regional water boards. BRWA inherited distribution
networks that were in poor physical condition, with very high numbers of illegal
connections and very low tariff collection rates from those who were legally connected.

4.      The second track was to channel investment resources to the sector, particularly to
the historically underserved areas. Against the background of BRWA’s weak institutional
capacity and slow progress in improving underlying service conditions, the 2006
Lebanon war proved a particularly major setback to the Beka’a region’s already poor
water infrastructure conditions.

5.      In the aftermath of hostilities, resources available through the Bank Trust Fund
for Lebanon, in support of recovery and reconstruction efforts, therefore supported a
Grant for reconstruction of the water supply system in West Beka’a. An assessment of
the economic and social impact of the hostilities and an analysis of the macro and
structural priories for the future were carried out in preparation for this program. This

                                             1
included extensive consultations with government, private sector and other stakeholders
as well as partnerships with multiple donors. The broader program in West Beka’a has
also benefited from support from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
(KFAED).

1.2    Main Beneficiaries

6.     The project was implemented in a region of Lebanon known to have among the
lowest income levels in the country. In 2009, a World Bank Social Impact Analysis
(Report No. 48993-LB) of the water and electricity sectors in Lebanon showed that in the
Beka’a Valley, 10 percent of the population lived below the extreme poverty line. This
compared to an overall country average of less than one percent in extreme poverty, and
was matched by disparities in service provision across regions.

7.       While the project was not designed to have a direct impact on poverty reduction,
it did aim to improve health outcomes by providing near universal access to clean water.
The project achieved significant cost savings which allowed the distribution network to
be directly extended to over 16,000 additional beneficiaries as compared to the targeted
beneficiaries at project design. Over 84,810 people have thus benefited from the project
through the provision of improved access to water supply services, which has an indirect
but significant impact on the poor.

1.3    Original Objectives and Key Indicators

8.      The key development objective was to “alleviate the precarious conditions of the
area’s water supply systems, which had been further aggravated by recent hostilities and
long-term neglect?. More specifically, the project was expected to improve health
conditions of the population of the West Beka'a through the provision of non-
contaminated water in increased quantities by completely rehabilitating the area's water
network.

9.      To this effect, the World Bank proposed to focus on three main project
development outcomes to improve the health of population within the project area: (i)
quality of water supplied (WHO standards met); (ii) quantity of water supplied; and (iii)
the number of households legally connected to the water supply network.

10.     Intermediate outcome (IO) indicators included: (i) implementation progress is
satisfactory and works contracts awarded without delays; (ii) number of meters installed;
and (iii) number of km of network rehabilitated.

11.    Project outcomes were supported through two key components:

      • Component I: Construction of water networks and facilities (13.75 million
        USD): The first component focused on rehabilitation and expansion of water
        production, storage, transmission and distribution systems in the villages of Er
        Raouda, Bar Elias, El Marj, Haouche el Harime and El Khiara.

                                           2
      • Component II: Technical assistance (1.25 million USD): The second
        component was designed to ensure effective implementation of the project
        through four activities: consulting services for construction supervision,
        consulting services for implementation of the Environmental Management Plan
        (EMP), a technical audit under Component I and support to the Project
        Management Team (PMT) responsible for implementation of the project.

1.4    Revised PDO and Key Indicators

12.    The PDO and indicators have remained the same throughout the project lifespan.

1.5    Other Significant Changes

13.    Extension of Grant Closing Dates: The project became effective on August 2,
2007, three months after Board approval. Due to political tensions and security concerns,
works under Component I started only on August 28, 2009 with an expected timeframe
of 24 months. Therefore, a request to extend the closing date from May 20, 2010 to
November 20, 2011 was made and approved in February 2010. Once the contracts were
awarded, construction and supervision proceeded on schedule.

14.      Although physical implementation proceeded with no major bottlenecks, a major
institutional issue – that of subscriptions to the upgraded service – arose as the new
distribution system was laid. Households accustomed to service without formal
connections or to formal connections without payment, were slow to accept the utility
imperative of moving to service on a self-sustaining commercial basis. The Bank
responded by identifying additional Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF) Grant funds to support BRWA’s subscription efforts and granted an additional
six-month extension to give the BRWA more time to increase subscription levels, leading
to a final closing date of May 20, 2012.

15.     Increased scope of work and service area: At appraisal, the client expected that
available funds would support the rehabilitation of 29 km of transmission lines and 80 km
of distribution lines. A combination of modest redesign and significant procurement
efficiencies allowed the rehabilitation or replacement of 20 km of transmission and 174
km of distribution lines, extending the potential number of subscribers from the 13,600
households estimated at appraisal to nearly 17,000 households at project close.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.    Link with National Investment Program for the Water and Wastewater
Sector: This project was an element of Lebanon’s national investment program prepared
by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) for implementation between
2006 and 2010. The program was designed to rehabilitate and expand water and
wastewater infrastructure, and improve operation and maintenance of facilities as well as

                                           3
the overall institutional framework of the sector. The West Beka’a was a priority area for
investment under this program.

17.      Project Preparation and Design: The project team drew lessons from the 2006
mid-term review of the Ba’albeck Water and Wastewater Project (BWWP - P074042),
which was under implementation in another BRWA service area. In particular, to avoid
implementation delays, the Bank team recommended the use of a single works contract
evaluated through a simplified CDR approval process. Additionally, because the BWWP
already supported BRWA’s institutional development and given the emergency nature of
the project, the Bank team determined that the West Beka’a project should not include an
institutional capacity building component.

18.     Bank appraisal team members were on-going contributors to the national water
sector policy dialogue in Lebanon (including most recently with the development of the
MOEW’s 2012 National Water Sector Strategy). The West Beka’a PAD thus documented,
in Annex 2, the broad array of national level water sector initiatives that, when
implemented, would provide the enabling environment needed by BRWA to significantly
improve its technical and financial performance, including the realization of the PDO
target of 90% legal connections to the new infrastructure.

19.     Despite a history that suggested otherwise, the Bank’s appraisal of the West
Beka’a project assumed that once connections were available, households would
subscribe. This judgment was made in the face of the 2006 BWWP midterm review that
documented the failure of BRWA to make any institutional progress (including in
subscriptions) over the first four years of the BWWP. The West Beka’a appraisal team
was so confident of their midterm review prescription for BWWP success that the West
Beka’a PAD did not even mention institutional development as a risk factor.

20.      The sustainability of the investments made under the West Beka’a project was
likewise wholly dependent on the financial strength and technical and managerial
capabilities of BRWA. The Bank appraisal team was correct that the West Beka’a project
itself did not need an institutional development component, given the efforts aimed at the
BRWA already supported through other projects. However, the West Beka’a project’s
failure to meet its key development objective was inextricably linked to the failure of the
BRWA institutional development program. The West Beka’a team did not include that
effort as a risk element of the West Beka’a project despite their recognition of BRWA’s
weaknesses in the BWWP midterm review. For this reason, the quality at entry is deemed
moderately unsatisfactory.

21.      BRWA’s performance is analyzed in detail in the forthcoming ICR for BWWP,
but in summary, Lebanon’s inability to make significant progress in water sector
institutional reform severely affected BRWA, both in its staffing and financing. The
national government appoints each Regional Water Authority Director General (DG), but
failed to appoint a full-time DG for BRWA until late 2009. The resulting eight-year
leadership gap slowed institutional reform. While the 2009 appointment finally led to
badly needed leadership improvements, the DG did not receive authorization to recruit

                                            4
professional staff until 2012 and, at project close, recruitment was still under way,
leaving the BRWA much weaker than anticipated at appraisal. Other critical national
policy changes, such as that of moving RWA customers to volumetric tariffs (hence
making meters a useful element of the system) were piloted in other parts of Lebanon but
not implemented nationally. BRWA’s push to legalize connections, establish a culture of
payment, and cut off non-payers also does not have strong political support, a fact not
lost on BRWA customers.

22.     Compounding these institutional bottlenecks, the appraisal team underestimated
the influence that local politics might play in household decision-making. The region,
historically known as a factional stronghold, is one of the most politically and socially
complex in the country. While the challenges of conducting development operations at
the local level is well known, social risks associated with the project were not flagged and
therefore preemptive action to mitigate such costs was absent.

23.     Because of the risk of household failure to legally connect was ignored at
appraisal, it became apparent only once the new system was operating, leaving BRWA
scrambling to develop a response (with strong support from the new Bank
implementation support team) only very late in the project’s life. The appraisal failure to
perceive any risk to this key element of project performance renders this element of
quality at entry unsatisfactory. The success of the design and procurement approaches to
the physical works only partially offset that evaluation and overall quality at entry is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

24.     One risk that was highlighted by the preparation team (that of political and
security risks) did become a factor that significantly slowed implementation. The
Lebanese war of 2006 that triggered this project resulted in an internal, two-year political
stand-off that delayed project implementation. Once the situation eased in 2008, the
awarding of the works contract followed by physical implementation proceeded on
schedule.

25.    Quality of Entry: There was no formal review carried out by the Quality
Assurance Group. This ICR review concludes that Quality of Entry was Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

2.2    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

26.    The Government monitored progress through quarterly reports submitted by the
Project Management Team (PMT) at CDR to the World Bank, the MOEW, CDR’s
executive management and the BRWA. Monitoring focused on engineering outcomes
during early implementation. Monitoring of on the number of new connections was
added as the rehabilitated system became operational. The M&E design did not include
monitoring of health or poverty outcomes.

27.    The monitoring program provided timely coverage of progress with civil works
and, in 2010, revealed that while infrastructure improvements were on track, the

                                              5
proportion of household connections remained low. This was principally due to the
pervasive issue of non-payment and legal enforcement by Beka’a residents and the
BRWA respectively.

28.    A 2011 public awareness campaign organized by BRWA and the PMT, with the
support of the Bank supervision team, was launched in the West Beka’a to introduce
subscription discounts complemented by a free household connection service (Annex 6:
List of Supporting Documents). These measures led to a significant increase in
subscription rates. Between October 2011 and May 2012, subscription rates across West
Beka’a localities increased by 59 percent. This was considerably higher than the previous
annual subscription growth rate of less than 10 percent. While increasing from a
subscription base still low relative to that required for the utility’s economic viability, the
success led BRWA to continue, after project close, a strategic communications and
outreach effort across communities in the Beka’a Valley.

29.    In March 2012, the BRWA carried out a region-wide survey of 800 households
with the support of the PPIAF Grant to better identify community needs and approaches
that would increase subscription levels (Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents). The
BRWA has already drawn from the survey results to better address specific concerns with
water operations in select neighborhoods.

30.      Though the BRWA’s recent measures to increase subscriptions are promising,
success at achieving the goal of 90 percent connections will require the BRWA to shut
off water through the old network still used, at no cost, by most households. This decision
is not in BRWA’s hands, but must be made at the political level.

Post Completion and Next Steps

31.      Building institutional sustainability is an ongoing process that requires time and
strong leadership. Institutional growth is further inevitably impacted by the socio-
political context surrounding it. In a region such as the Beka’a Valley, the political nature
of how local development unfolds is complex and unpredictable, calling for project teams
to be more realistic about feasibility of objectives and timeframe. In the case of this
project, the physical works were successfully completed but the risks associated with
consumer behavior were underestimated and proved to be an obstacle for overall success
in the lifespan of the project.

32.     Shortly after his appointment, the Director General of the BRWA set in place a
strategy to increase subscriptions through enhanced outreach and partnership
development. The Director General also played a lead role in lobbying the MOEW for
the 20 billion Lebanese Pounds (LBP) which have been transferred to support operation
and maintenance costs post the closing of the World Bank projects in West Bekaa and
Ba’albeck.

33.    Had the Director General been appointed at an earlier stage of the BRWA
formation, the institutional process would have started years ago and likely resulted in a

                                              6
more positive outcome. Nonetheless and, as noted earlier, the ICR team views the
measures undertaken by BRWA as promising and, in time, achievable with government
support and appropriate reforms in place.

2.3       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34.    There were no reported divergences or waivers from the Bank’s safeguards and
procedures during implementation. As required, CDR prepared quarterly reports to the
World Bank and Bank teams supervised these aspects of project implementation.

35.    Environment: The project was categorized as Category B, consistent with World
Bank Operational Policy 4.01, and any adverse environmental impacts caused by
Component I investments were expected to be temporary and minimal. No significant
impacts were reported or noted by the client or Bank supervision teams during or post
construction.

36.     Social: It was expected that the project would “require a modest acquisition of
land? under Component I and as such triggered the Bank’s safeguard policy OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement. At the time of the design of the Technical Annex, the details
for the construction sites had not been identified. Therefore, a Resettlement Policy
Framework (see Annex 6 – List of Supporting Documents) was prepared by CDR to set
guidelines for assessing construction on private/public land plots and, where needed, put
in place a plan for compensation. Records presented by CDR during the ICR Mission
dated (April 24-28, 2012) indicate all construction under Component I took place on
public land, therefore no land acquisition was necessary.

37.     Financial Management: As stated in the PAD, a financial management
capability already existing within CDR would be responsible for maintaining records and
reporting to the Bank. Supervision teams reviewing internal approval documents indicate
an experienced Financial Officer has been adequately implementing the financial
management arrangements 1. There have been no reported FM issues.

38.    Disbursements: The estimated project cost during appraisal was 15 million USD.
Actual project cost was 14.98 million USD which were fully disbursed within the grace
period following the grant closing date (See Annex 2). 2 All disbursement requests were
appropriately documented and the Bank response was timely.

39.    Procurement: CDR prepared a procurement plan as of February 16, 2007,
included in the PAD as Annex 4. The PMT was responsible for all implementation
arrangements related to Bank-financed procurement. Due to the political situation and as
described above, there was a two-year implementation delay, with the works contract
signed only on July 7, 2009. Since the commencement of works on August 28, 2009,


1
  Samples from Baalbeck Water and Wastewater Project and West Beka’a Emergency Water Supply Project Supervision Mission Aide
Memoire, August 26 – September 8, 2008 and June 6-10, 2011 -- (Page 9 and Annex 1 – Financial Management Review, respectively).
2
  There is a four month grace period where committed funds can be disbursed. The deadline for West Beka’a was September 20, 2012.

                                                               7
there were no reported issues with compliance of Bank procedures and procurement
proceeded on schedule.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

40.     The project was directly linked to long-term and still relevant, government reform
efforts and addressed important issues highly relevant to improving water and wastewater
services across Lebanon. The project is referenced in the 2007 Interim Strategy Note
(Pillar 3: Resource and Environmental Management which was designed to contribute to
the outcomes of improved water management, land use management and air pollution
control), and most recently in the 2011-2016 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) (Tier I
– Core Program in which the project was reflected as a project under implementation).
Improved water and sanitation remain a high priority for GoL as witnessed by their
inclusion in the Council of Ministers’ December 2011 Economic and Social Reform
Action Plan reform pillar on Infrastructure Rehabilitation as well as the March 2012
formal adoption of the National Water Sector Strategy, as set out by the MoEW which
proposes a detailed plan for improved water, sanitation and irrigation services and
reforms nationwide.

41.     In addition, the project contributed directly to the Government Investment
Program in the Western Beka’a, with objectives, design and implementation focusing
specifically on rehabilitation to improve quality and quantity of water supplied to a
population with some of the lowest socio-economic indicator levels in the country. Its
focus on increasing the number of legally connected households in order to ensure self-
financing for the BRWA was well placed, but it lacked the analysis needed to understand
whether this was a realizable goal. Furthermore, project design shortcomings left the
project vulnerable to unacknowledged risks that were well known in the sector at the time
of appraisal as described above.

42.     Finally, the stated objective of the project was to improve health conditions of the
population through the provision of non-contaminated water in increased quantities by
completely rehabilitating the water network. The appraisal states that “more specifically,
the project is expected to improve health conditions of the population of the West Beka’a?
(PAD, para 23). However, the team did not document the state of network water-related
health issues in the area at appraisal and made no provision to follow up on this issue
during implementation. The two-year implementation delay did not appear to impact
health in the area. The PDO would thus more appropriately have either not raised the
health issue or would have made an effort to document it.

3.2   Achievement of Project Development Objective
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                            8
43.     The achievement of the PDO is evaluated below, with detailed analysis of the
indicators used by the team to measure overall PDO outcome:

44.     Development Objective: Improve health conditions of the population of the
West Beka’a through the provision of non-contaminated water in increased
quantities by completely rehabilitating the area's water network. PDO achievement
is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

45.     The PDO focused on correcting the unsafe conditions found in the water supply
and reducing the consequent health risks to residents. The PAD proposed three indicators
to evaluate the outcome: (i) quality of water supplied (WHO standards met); (ii) quantity
of water supplied; and (iii) number of households legally connected to the water supply
network.

46.    It is important to note that although adequate quantities of high quality water play
an important role in maintaining health, the determinants of health outcomes go beyond
the measures proposed. These indicators alone are not sufficient to make a statement
about health outcomes. Since both the preparation team and the ICR team lacked access
to the information needed to relate health outcomes to water project outcomes, this
analysis will present the outcomes of indicators: (i) quality, (ii) quantity, and (iii) number
of households legally connected without attempting to link them to local health outcomes.

47.     Quality: Expected improvements in the quality of water supplied (WHO
standards met) were met under this project. In 2007, the water supplied to residents in
West Beka’a failed to meet WHO or Lebanese drinking water standards. The
rehabilitation of the Chamsine Spring and the new distribution network under Component
I were expected to ensure that the population would be provided with good quality water.
As such, Grant resources complemented other funds to facilitate a testing regime that
tracks the output of the source wells, the effectiveness of the chlorination facilities, and
the quality of water delivered to households via rehabilitated networks.

48.      The water testing protocols have been observed and monthly reports aggregate
test results. The ICR team reviewed a sample of these reports, which confirm that the
project water supply has consistently achieved WHO drinking water quality standards
with the exception of some instances where residual chlorine was not found. In contrast
to the experience at entry, when nitrates were at 100 mg/l and fecal coliforms at 10/100
ml, after project implementation nitrates have been below 1.5 mg/l and fecal coliforms
typically measured at 0/100 ml. This performance easily meets the PAD targets of
nitrates below 10 mg/l and fecal coliforms below 1/100 ml. The testing regime includes
measurement of residual chlorine with mixed results indicating that more attention is
needed to ensure sufficient free chlorine is available throughout the network (especially
at end-of-pipe).

49.    Quantity: Levels of potable water supplied to commercial establishments and
households meet original target objectives. The increase in available water from 60 liters
per capita per day (l/c/d) to well above 100 l/c/d promises to raise the benefits of water

                                              9
use enjoyed by households. The upgraded water supply system produces sufficient water
to meet the output goals under the project.

50.     Legal Connections: The proportion of households legally connected falls far
short of the goal of 90 percent. According to utility records, 5,310 households (or 32
percent of total current households), are connected to the upgraded system (see Table 1).
Given that the utility now has much better control of the network than they did at
appraisal, illegal connection numbers for the new network are very low. However, at
closing, the project delivered safe potable water to just over one third of total households
largely due to the BRWA’s policy of only providing water to those households that had
legally connected to the network.

51.     As discussed below, the ICR team believes that the utility has made the right
long-term decision by withholding connections to non-subscribers; however, when
assessing achievement of the PDO, the outcome at closing must be judged moderately
unsatisfactory.

             Table 1. West Beka’a Subscriptions and Improved Network Beneficiaries:

 Locality        Households            Current           31/12/10         30/09/11         30/11/11         31/12/11   10/5/12*
                  at entry            households
Bar Elias             7,024               9,252             1,983           2,051            2,182            2,615      N/A
Hauch el              1,728               1,400              205             259              266              293       N/A
Harime
Khiara                 436                 437                91             132              136              138      N/A
Marj                  3,920               5,353              684             693              819             1063      N/A
Rauda                  481                 520               182             207              231              246      N/A
Total                13,589              16,962             3,145           3,342            3,634            4,355     5310
WB:
*Final figure reflects subscription applications being processed during the final months prior to project closing.


52.    Connection policy: During the early implementation of BWWP, the BRWA had
a policy of connecting all potential users, whether or not they immediately subscribed to
the upgraded service. The rationale behind this policy, and that adopted in the West
Beka’a project design, was that the demonstrated benefits of the service would lead users
to subscribe. In practice, the policy was unsuccessful for multiple reasons. A long history
of poor service provision across the region, combined with a lack of enforcement due to
BRWA’s weak institutional capacity, created little incentive for households to subscribe.
Additionally, people saw few reasons to move to paying status if they already received
high quality water without paying. A detailed discussion of the Ba’albeck experience
with this policy is provided in the forthcoming Ba’albeck Water and Sanitation Project
ICR.

53.     Disconnection of non-subscribers has been difficult, so BRWA modified its
connection policy in 2010 so that connections are made available only to households that
first subscribe. In the West Beka’a service area, rehabilitation came on-line only after the

                                                                   10
new policy was in place. Households with alternative sources of water have been slow to
subscribe, creating the gap between appraisal estimates and the project outcome. Within
BRWA as a whole, the subscription rate is estimated at 41 percent, which is above the
West Beka’a level. Contributing to this relatively low subscription rate has been
BRWA’s practice of continuing to supply water through the old, low-pressure West
Beka’a distribution system – a choice necessitated by the political unacceptability of
immediate, full cut-off.

54.    BRWA has an active, Bank-supported subscription program that has enabled it to
add 2,000 new subscribers over the 12 months through May 20, 2012. Based on this
experience and subsequent plans to reduce flows into the old distribution network,
BRWA has reason to expect that in the medium-term a very high percentage of the nearly
17,000 households now residing in the West Beka’a service area will be serviced through
subscriptions.

55.     It is clear that the implementation of the project is an ongoing process that – due
to aforementioned challenges – will require additional time to meet the overall outcome
of 90% of beneficiaries choosing to access the water made available by project outputs.
With the improved network available, it is a matter of time before BRWA continues to
cement its record of credibility among its community members and improves the
connection rate.

3.2.1 Outputs by components

56.    The achievement of the two components is summarized below:

57.   Component 1: Construction of Water Networks and Facilities. This
component is rated satisfactory.

58.      At project closing, all transmission and distribution pipelines were either
rehabilitated or newly constructed, for a pipeline total of 197 km. The production wells
were relocated, deepened, and better protected from outside influence. New water storage
tanks were constructed to ensure better continuity of supply and to lower operating costs.
Approximately 174 km of distribution pipes (polyethylene [PE] and ductile iron [DI]
ranging from 25mm to 300 mm) were laid in the villages of Bar Elias, El-Marj, Er-
Raouda, Haouch El Harime, and Khiara, while 20 km of new transmission pipelines (DI
ranging from 125-600 mm in diameter) were run from the storage tanks and 3.5 km of
line (DI-500 mm) was laid from the pumping station to the storage tanks. Modifications
during construction were made to increase distribution lines, allowing future connections
to 17,000 households from the appraisal estimate of 13,600.




                                            11
                             Table 2: Localities of Distribution Networks

             Localities                       Total             Total        Total DI
                                           Polyethylene        Ductile       and PE
                                            Pipes (PE)        Iron (DI)
             Bar Elias                        60,398           21,064         81,462
             El-Marj                          39,908            9,630         49,538
             Er-Raouda                         6,874            2,933          9,807
             Haouch El Harime                 19,112            5,979         25,091
             Khiara                            7,261             554           7,815
                                  Total      133,553           40,160        173,713

59.   Extensive improvements in the Chamsine spring catchment were carried out
including four new pumps, and two storage reservoirs with a total capacity of 7,000 m3.
Modifications in terms of number of wells, pumping stations and reservoirs were made
during the construction phase based on need and current design to meet objectives. Table
3 presents outcomes of works in more detail.

                  Table 3. Outcome of Works: Construction and Rehabilitation
      Rehabilitation of           Installation of 4 New Pumps
      existing Chamsine           Installation of Chlorination System
      Pumping Station             Reinstallation of Surge Tank
      (Zone 1- Western            Rehabilitation of the Pumps Area
      Bekaa)                      Chlorination Rooms
                                  Guard House
                                  Upgraded Laboratory Room
                                  New small sewage treatment lant for the guard room
                                  Improved Lighting, Window System, and Tiling
      Kefraya Well Station        Installation of New Submersible Pump, 10", 72m3/hr,
                                      h=300m
      Rmasa Well Station          Increasing Well Depth from 512m to 620m
                                  Replacement of the Submersible Pump, 6", 12m3/hr,
                                      h=620m
      Strategic Reservoirs            Two circular reinforced with a total capacity of 7000m3
                                       (2x3,500m3)
                                      New pipe connections, accessories and valves
                                       chambers, retaining walls, steel gate and fence.
      Elevated Reservoirs             Rehabilitation of 2 existing elevated reservoirs: 300 m3
                                       each, at al-Rawda and al-Khiyara




60.    Component 2: Technical Assistance. This component is rated as satisfactory.
The sub-components are evaluated below:


                                                  12
    • Consulting services for construction supervision were completed with no
      demonstrable challenges and physical outputs met contract standards.
    • Consulting services were acquired for implementation of the Environmental
      Management Plan (EMP) which established the needed protocols and training to
      upgrade laboratory work and resulted in the needed frequency and quality of
      testing, supported by detailed record keeping.
    • Support to the PMT was provided by CDR staff on a regular basis. As a result, the
      PMT was effective in ensuring that implementation stayed on track and was active
      in supporting the BRWA in implementing outreach materials to increase
      subscriptions and improve communications with clients.
    • There were no outstanding audits at project grant closing.

3.3.   Efficiency
Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.3.1 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return

61.     The economic rate of return was not estimated at appraisal due to the emergency
nature of the project, time constraints and limited availability of data. The PAD does,
however, offer a qualitative assessment of the economics: “the project will bring
significant public health and socio-economic benefits through better quality and
availability of water, improvements in the sustainability of water sources by reducing
losses and wastage, as well as through the reduction of the cost of water supply for low
income families. Overall, the project is expected to improve the quality of life of the
targeted population, leading to significant health and welfare benefits. 3? and “Given the
high positive externalities for this type of investment, the project is expected to be cost-
effective. 4?

62.     The fundamental economic question in evaluating project outcomes then becomes
the number of people enjoying the use of the higher quality water, available at higher
quantities. By this measure, at least in the short run, the project has not met its economic
target with 5,310 connections at project close, compared to the 12,230 connections in the
appraisal estimate for project close 5. The economic cost of each connection at project
close is thus more than twice that anticipated at appraisal. If the program can continue to
add 2,000 households per year until they achieve 90% of the population, BRWA will
have brought the net present value of the average economic investment cost per
connection down to a level very close to the appraisal sum.

3.3.2 Financial Rate of Return

63.    Similarly, the financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal due to the
rapid assessment required of this emergency project. Among subscribers across BRWA,

3
  As stated in the PAD, paragraph 62.
4
  As stated in the PAD, paragraph 63.
5
  The procurement efficiencies that allowed expansion of works well beyond the appraisal and additional local household growth rates
during the two year delay led to a household count at close of 16,962 as opposed to the 13,600 appraisal estimate.

                                                                13
the tariff collection rate is rising, but in 2011 reached only one-third of billings. On that
basis, the investment currently faces a negative financial rate of return, as BRWA itself
must rely on national government subsidies to meet current operating costs and lacks the
budget to maintain the investments at the desired level. As mentioned above, the BRWA
has received a 20 billion LBP subsidy from the MOEW to finance ongoing operation and
maintenance costs over the next two years.

Project Efficiency Rating

64.    The positive physical investment efficiency (reflected in attaining network
extension well beyond planned levels) is outweighed by the very low efficiency (as
measured in terms of cost per subscriber). Despite the short term Government subsidy
provided to BRWA, the lack of a long-run sustainable financing source to assure
operations and maintenance at the level needed to protect the quality of the investment
contributes to the “Unsatisfactory? efficiency rating.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

65.     The overall outcome was measured against the outputs of the project’s two
components and a combination of indicators, including (i) quality of water supplied
(WHO standards met); (ii) quantity of water supplied; and (iii) the number of households
legally connected to the water supply network. Intermediate outcome (IO) indicators
included: (i) implementation progress; (ii) number of meters installed; and (iii) number of
km of network rehabilitated.

66.    The project succeeded in rehabilitating the network in West Beka’a, putting in
place a production and distribution system at lower-than-expected unit costs that can
assure sufficient clean water to 17,000 households in the service area, an increase of
3,400 households, or 20 percent, over appraisal estimates. Total investment costs
matched the appraisal estimate.

67.     Where the project falls short – and this the ICR team recognizes as no small gap –
is the number of households actually benefiting from the improved and expanded
network. As describe above, reasons for this ranged from weak institutional management,
inadequate government reforms, and misplaced incentives for households to pay for
water. The rating is thus moderately unsatisfactory when measured at project close.
Nevertheless, the significant efforts made by BRWA to increase subscriptions as well as
the intensified support by the World Bank and CDR in focusing on this critical step may
provide the basis for a satisfactory outcome in the long run.

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

68.    Institutional / Financial Risk: Low collection rates continue to pose a real
challenge to economic viability of the BRWA. Sustainability of BRWA, and

                                             14
subsequently to the West Beka’a investments, is therefore dependent on external sources
until subscription and collection levels increase. To date, the BRWA relies on financial
support from CDR and the MOEW to fill the financing gaps created by subscription
shortfalls and growing accounts receivable. Even with that support, operations and
maintenance are not funded at levels that protect against renewed degradation of the
system despite the efficiencies that come with engaging private sector operators through
service and management contracts.

69.     Nonetheless, recent data from BRWA reveal an increasing trend of revenues, due
to higher subscription and collection rates (See Table 4). This results from a targeted
outreach program and promotional discounts. Additionally, at the time of project closing,
BRWA was developing a five-year business plan (2012-2016) that would help recover
late fees, optimize records and help further increase subscriptions. The government has
further authorized the hiring of needed professional staff and has subsidized revenue
shortfalls so that minimum maintenance needs can be met.

70.     To date, these measures are inadequate to sustain a self-financing BRWA. The
risk to sustaining project outcomes thus remains high even while central government
funding ensures continued water service levels.

          Table 4: BRWA Service Area Collections (Jan - June: 2010, 2011, 2012)

             Month       2010 Revenues       2011 Revenues       2012 Revenues
         January           254,285,838         242,796,000         294,841,168
         February          206,225,000         376,299,000         388,812,000
         March             326,061,367         534,348,709         559,103,000
         April             304,201,372         560,368,384         727,097,000
         May               206,612,250         765,396,963         949,306,000
         June              483,805,542        1,296,210,721       2,082,224,000
         Total            1,881,191,369       3,775,419,777       5,001,382,168

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.      At the time of appraisal, the West Beka’a project team drew lessons from a 2006
mid-term review of the BWWP being implemented in another BRWA service area. In
particular, attention was given to implementation delays in the contracting process by use
of a single works contract evaluated through a simplified CDR approval process. The
project team expected that the institutional capacity needs of the project would be met
through on-going support to BRWA through BWWP, as well as dialogue at the national
level. The project nonetheless suffered a two-year implementation delay due to political
problems of the type highlighted in the risk section of the PAD. Moreover, the
institutional development problems around legal connections to the network that were not


                                           15
recognized as a significant risk have become the primary reason why the main project
development objectives had not been realized by project closing.

Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.     Security concerns and a fragile political environment created unavoidable
implementation delays early on. The BRWA Director General was further not appointed
until 2009 during which time the Bank supervision team supported the implementing
agency in creating a robust project management team that was in place and oversaw
efficient implementation once the political impasse was resolved. The implementation
delay did force extension of the closing date, which government was slow to request,
forcing the Bank team to downgrade project performance until an extension was
approved.

73.     The supervision team focused their efforts on both physical implementation and
the needed institutional reforms. By 2010, the BRWA and Bank supervision team
recognized the critical need to put BRWA on a sound financial footing and supported its
policy to withhold connections until consumers subscribed to the upgraded service. 6 This
threatened the short run achievement of the project’s PDO, but is key to long-term,
sustainable achievement of that goal. The supervision team further aided BRWA in
obtaining PPIAF support for a program to increase subscriptions and supported an
additional six-month project extension to support that implementation (See Annex 6).

74.    Although discussed in the text of the ISRs, the team did not downgrade the
“Progress towards achievement of PDO? rating to signal to management that the
connection goal in the PDO would not be met by project closing and as such, the quality
of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Justification for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75.   Based on an averaging of the aforementioned outcomes and the overall project
outcome rating of moderately unsatisfactory, the Bank’s overall performance is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2          Borrower Performance

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     The performance of the implementing agency is rated moderately satisfactory.
Despite the implementation delays that were outside the control of the agency and the
fact that the BRWA Director General was only appointed in 2009, CDR management


6
    Based on reporting from the West Beka’a Emergency Water Supply Project Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, October 6-8, 2010.

                                                               16
worked diligently to ensure that implementation would proceed on schedule once the
external political obstacles were overcome. Additionally, CDR’s support to BRWA
during the launch of the communications campaign was critical in helping increase
subscriptions prior to closing of the grant.

Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

77.     The performance of the Borrower is moderately unsatisfactory. The economic and
financial performance and sustainability of the project depended crucially on the series of
national institutional reforms outlined in Annex 2 of the PAD. The failure to make or
effectively implement the reforms, particularly those under the “Improve Sector
Governance? in Annex 2, have so slowed BRWA’s development such that it has been
unable to sustainably meet the project objective of sustainably providing water to even
half of the 12,000 households anticipated at appraisal.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.   Based on an averaging of the aforementioned outcomes and the overall project
outcome rating, the Borrower’s overall performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

79.     The implementation of infrastructure projects with the potential to serve a
relatively large population during a time of political and institutional transition is
particularly complex. In a country like Lebanon, the outcome is only compounded – often
times adversely -- by additional complexities brought on by weak public institutions,
deeply rooted political tensions, and, in the case of this project, historical mistrust of
government institutions by a large proportion of project beneficiaries. Key lessons
learned identified by the ICR team are thus as follows:

80.    Coherence between the PDO and the proposed activities is critical for project
success. There was a clear disconnect between proposed PDO and the activities under the
components, particularly on the issue of health outcomes. Activities targeting health
aspects of the PDO should have been incorporated in the design stage of the project.

81.     Emergency operations require particular additional attention to the design of
the monitoring and evaluation framework. The short time typically allotted to the
preparation of emergency operations in particular, coupled with a rapid preparation
process requires further development of the monitoring and evaluation framework at the
early stages of implementation. As similarly concluded in the ICR for the Lebanon First
Municipal Infrastructure Project (TF57333), the M&E framework is a key element of the
project design which should be detailed after the initial steps of implementation of
emergency reconstruction projects.



                                            17
82.     Past institutional performance as a key measure for project outcome. The
history of performance in key institutional areas provide critical insight into likely project
performance. Improvements in physical infrastructure and service delivery were not
sufficient to induce a change in the culture of not subscribing or not paying. Potential
subscribers were drawn from households long accustomed to poor quality service,
creating a mistrust of the service provider’s announced plans for a consistently high
quality service. In the case of West Beka’a, the simplification of the project design was a
double-edged sword. On the one hand it allowed for successful development of physical
infrastructure to meet the needs of an expanding population, but on the other hand,
underestimated the institutional disconnect with the population it serves and ultimately its
impact on beneficiary access.

83.     Supply does not create its own demand. A recent survey financed by the PPIAF
carried out within the BRWA service area, demonstrates that despite enhancements in
quantity and quality, consumers continue to purchase higher cost water even when access
to high quality piped water has increased. 7 Long term awareness raising efforts, coupled
with an in-depth understanding of the incentive structure governing household decision-
making processes are thus critical to project design.

84.      Strong and sustained leadership as an essential driver for institutional
development. The delayed appointment of a full-time BRWA Director General impacted
its ability to respond to the urgent need for increasing subscription and collection levels.
Once the leadership position was filled, a community response mechanism to address
these gaps was put in place, albeit late in the project lifecycle. Institutional development
thus requires an internal champion who is both empowered and competent to build
consensus around solutions that can steer the institution toward success as seen by the
promising results on the West Beka’a subscription program.

85.     Financial sustainability is a key ingredient in strong institutions and cannot be
ignored. A solid understanding of the water supply and sanitation ecosystem and how it
can be financially sustained is detrimental for sustainability of related infrastructure
projects and achievement of development outcomes. For the Beka’a emergency project,
the physical works and technical assistance components were satisfactory but expected
outcomes of beneficiary access were below the targeted rate of 90 percent raising
legitimate concerns on the long-term viability of the BRWA. Lessons can be drawn from
the experience, however, especially when designing similar emergency efforts.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies/
Partners

86.    In its letter dated 5710/1 dated November 5, 2012 (Annex 5), CDR provided
comments on the draft ICR submitted by the Bank team. All comments have been
incorporated into the final text.



7
    A summary of the PPIAF survey analysis is included as part of Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents.

                                                                 18
    Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Claire Kfouri                  Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.     MNSWA         Task Team Leader
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi          Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPR         Procurement Support
Rima Abdul-Amir                Sr Financial Management         MNAFM         Financial Management
Koteiche                       Specialist                                    Support
Rock Jabbour                   Financial Management Analyst    MNAFM         Financial Management
Mona El-Chami                  Sr Financial Management         MNAFM         Financial Management
                               Specialist
Parameswaran Iyer              Lead Water & Sanitation Spec.   MNSWA         Water Sector
Mouna Couzi                    Operations Analyst              MNCLB         Operational Support
Zakia Chummun                  Language Program Assistant      MNSWA         Administrative
                                                                             Support
Mohammed Benouahi              Consultant                      MNSSD         Consultant
Alexander E. Bakalian          Program Coordinator             MNSWA
Lina Fares                     Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPR         Procurement Support
Lizmara Kirchner               Water & Sanitation Specialist   LCSUW         Operational Support
Frederick P. Kranz             Consultant                      MNAPR         Procurement Support
Georges Raphael Khoury-        Consultant                      MNAPR         Procurement Support
Haddad
Diana C. El Masri              Consultant                      MNAFM         Financial Management
                                                                             Support
Josephine G. Salang            Senior Program Assistant        MNSRE         Administrative
                                                                             Support


ICR
Samantha Constant              Consultant                      MNSWA         Primary Author
Lee Travers                    Consultant                      MNSWA         Economics and
                                                                             Finance

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including travel
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                     and consultant costs)
   Lending
     FY07                                      25.96                     133,515.94
     FY08                                       8.58                      70,040.31
     FY09                                       5.7                       37,853.19
     FY10                                       8.35                      46,479.27
     FY11                                       4.85                      26473.02
     FY12                                      13.28                      76116.15
     FY13                                       -                          -313.95
     Total:                                    66.72                     390,163.93




                                                   19
                            Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                                   Appraisal                           Percentage
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                 Components                        Estimate                           of Appraisal
                                                                  Estimate (US$)
                                                    (US$)                                 (%)


Component 1: Construction of Water Networks
and Facilities                                     13,750,000      13,889,953.80         101.02
Component 2: Technical Assistance                   800,000         598,806.20            74.85
Contingencies                                       450,000         511,240.00           113.61
Total Financing Required:                          15,000,000       15,000,000             100



                                                                                   Percentage of
                                              Appraisal
                                Type of                          Actual             Appraisal
        Source of Funds                       Estimate
                                                                                       (%)

 Borrower                     Grant                  12,000        13,212             110.10
 IBRD                         Grant            15,000,000       15,000,000             100




                                              20
                           Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Component One: Construction of Water Networks and Facilities. The following
outputs were produced under this component:

Chamsine Pumping Station

Electromechanical works for pumping station buildings included installation of four new
pumps (206m 3/hr, H= 19 bars), electrical and control boards and cables, as well as pipes
fittings and accessories (water meter, motorized gate valves, check valves, air release
valves). The removal and reinstallation of existing pumps also took place along with the
removal, rehabilitation and reinstallation of the surge tank and replacement of the
existing chlorination equipment with a new system.

Civil works covered rehabilitation of all the existing buildings, including pumps area,
chlorination rooms, guardhouse, and laboratory room. This covered new waterproofing
for top slabs, painting inside and outside buildings, new tilling, concrete tiling in the
pumps area and outside building, new roof drainage systems, new steel and wood doors,
new steel gate and fence, windows and lighting rehabilitation, new complete
mechanical/sanitary system for laboratory room and new Waste Water treatment plant for
the guard house.
.
Kefraya and Rmasa Well Stations

Additional civil works covered the Kefraya and Rmasa well stations. The submersible
pump for each station was replaced with specifications that fit according to the capacity
of each well. An increase in well depth was required for the Rmasa well and this was
adjusted with the needed equipment.

Strategic Reservoirs

Two circular reinforced concrete reservoirs were built having a total capacity of 7000m3
(2 x3500 m3) including pipe connections, accessories and valves chambers, retaining
walls, steel gate and fence. An access road of approximately 1.1 km long and 5-6m wide
was constructed around the base of the reservoirs.

Pipelines

Pumping lines consisted of ductile iron pipes 500 mm in diameter with a length of 3.5
km, and 3.5 km of polyethylene pipe 63 mm in diameter for telemetry cable.
Transmission network consisted of ductile iron ranging from 125-600 mm in diameter
with a length of 20 km. Distribution networks consisted of polyethylene pipes ranging
from 25-90 mm in diameter with a length of 134 km and ductile iron pipes ranging
from100-300mm with a length of 40 km. Full pipe quantities across locations are
provided in the following table:



                                           21
Source: Project Management Team (PMT) at Council for Development and Reconstruction, April 2012.

Component 2: Technical Assistance. The outputs for this component are highlighted in
the main text. Primarily, technical assistance focused on consulting services for
construction supervision and implementation of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP). Needed technical support for auditing was also included as an output.

As such there were no demonstrable challenges in construction supervision and physical
outputs met contract standards. The EMP established the need protocols and training to
upgrade laboratory work. The team reviewed a sample of laboratory records which
provide detailed information about the frequency and quality of testing.

Finally, Bank reporting during supervision missions shows that adequate auditing
arrangements were in place with no outstanding audits at project grant closing.




                                                22
                     Annex 4. Economic and Financial Justification

The Technical Annex for the Grant supporting the West Beka’a Emergency Water
Supply Project investment (dated March 19, 2007) includes neither a quantified financial
nor an economics analysis, due to the rapid preparation needed for this emergency project.
It does, however, offer a qualitative assessment of the economics: “The project will bring
significant public health and socio-economic benefits through better quality and
availability of water, improvements in the sustainability of water sources by reducing
losses and wastage, as well as through the reduction of the cost of water supply for low
income families. Overall, the project is expected to improve the quality of life of the
targeted population, leading to significant health and welfare benefits.? (para 62) and
“Given the high positive externalities for this type of investment, the project is expected
to be cost-effective.? (para 63).

The PDO focused on health benefits and the proposed measures were three: (i) quality of
water supplied (WHO standards met); (ii) quantity of water supplied; and (iii) increase in
number of households legally connected to the water supply network. The ICR economic
analysis relies on the team’s chosen outcome measures. However, it is worth noting that
sub-component iii is not a measure of likely health outcomes (which depends purely on
whether households have switched to the higher quality water supply, not how they gain
access), but instead a sustainability indicator, since it signals the ability of the utility to
manage the network and, potentially, collect adequate revenue to meet maintenance and
rehabilitation needs.

Health Benefits

Although adequate quantities of high quality water play an important role in maintaining
health, the determinants of health outcomes go far beyond those two elements and it has
long been known that these indicators alone are far from sufficient to make a statement
about health outcomes. Both the preparation team and the ICR team lack access to the
information needed to relate health outcomes to water outcomes. This analysis will
therefore look at the two indicators of quality and quantity without attempting to link
them to local health outcomes.

Water Quality

Grant resources complemented other funds to facilitate a water quality testing regime that
tracks the output of the source wells, the effectiveness of the chlorination facilities, and,
through end-of-pipe testing, the quality of water delivered to households. The water
testing protocols have been observed and monthly reports aggregate test results. The ICR
team reviewed a sample of these reports, which confirm that the project water supply has
consistently achieved WHO drinking water quality standards.

The importance of network water quality is reduced by the fact that very few households
trust the quality of network water. A survey of water users in the BRWA service area
revealed that two-thirds of households who subscribe to the network continue to purchase

                                              23
water from other sources for potable use, not trusting the quality of their tap water. This
does not mean that good quality network water is unimportant, but it does mean that
water from other sources or undergoing additional treatment finally determines the
quality of water ingested.

Water Quantity

An increase in available water from 60 lcd to 100 lcd promises to raise the benefits of
water use enjoyed by households. It is unlikely to have any measurable health benefits,
as 60 lcd already provides adequate water to cover all basic drinking, cooking, and hygiene
needs. In the event, the new system does produce enough water to meet the output goals under the
project.

Beneficiaries

The fundamental economic question in evaluating the project outcome is the number of
people enjoying the use of the higher quality water, available at higher quantities. By this
measure, at least in the short run, the project has not met its economic target. The simple
arithmetic is as follows: “Legal connections to the network are still below expected
figures, at 5,310 out of an expected 16,529…? [ISR 11, April 2012]. The expected
number of connections is that consistent with serving the 49,000 people anticipated as
project beneficiaries. The current status means that less than one-third of the expected
number of people are benefiting from the project or, put another way, the economic cost
of supplying water is more than triple that anticipated at appraisal and more than two-
thirds of the people are not capturing the expected health benefits of the investment.

The beneficiary numbers need to be understood in the context of system sustainability.
As noted above, one PDO indicator is the “increase in number of households legally
connected to the water supply network.? That indicator was chosen to capture an
essential challenge to the sustainability of high quality water supply in Lebanon generally
and in the West Beka’a service area in particular – the failure of network water
beneficiaries to pay for the service they receive. Although this emergency Grant does not
attempt a structural solution to the sustainability problem, it does acknowledge that
problem through it reflection of national policy goals and proposed actions to improve
service sustainability. Within the BRWA service area, other recent service upgrades have
not been followed by significant consumer willingness to formalize their connections and
pay their bills. This unwillingness likely does not reflect a low value placed on the water
received, but rather a history of receiving that water – whether it is paid for or not. A
history of low rates of payment has led to a vicious circle of inadequate revenue, leading
to a deteriorating infrastructure and service levels noted in the West Beka’a Grant
appraisal, that deterioration finally leads to a full and expensive reconstruction of supply
and networks. In West Beka’a, the BRWA has adopted a new approach – households
will not be connected to the upgraded service until they subscribe. This approach,
supported by the Bank team, is not threatening the health of laggard households – the old
supply network continues to function, ensuring that all households receive at least the
quantity and quality of water available to them under the old system.


                                              24
Cost (to households) of Water Supply:

Another dimension of the expected project benefits is a reduced cost of water supply for
low-income families. The rationale behind this prospective benefit is not explained in the
PAD. One likely rationale is that families were paying a price above the piped water
tariff for water quantities above the 60 lcd from that system. Another rationale is that
families were treating water from the piped supply because they did not trust it to be of
potable quality and that with increased water quality after project completion; such
treatment could end, thus saving money. To date, there is no evidence of either benefit
being realized. Indeed, the cost of the new supply is higher than the old, since
households did not have to pay for the old supply. Although the quality is higher, a water
use survey done within the BRWA service area (not specifically on the West Beka’a
beneficiaries) indicates that consumers continue to treat water, or purchase high quality
water, even when piped water quality has increased. Over time, with evidence of
consistently high piped water quality, household behavior might change; but in the short-
run the goal of reduced costs has not been realized.




                                           25
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR




                26
27
                        Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Technical Annex, March 19, 2007
2.   Aide-Memoires/Management Letters
3.   Resettlement Action Plan
4.   PPIAF Survey Summary Analysis
5.   BRWA West Beka’a Brochures
6.   Ba’albeck Water and Sanitation Project Appraisal Document (P074042) and
     Implementation Completion Report (forthcoming)




                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33433R
                                                      35°30'E                                                               36°00'E                                                                        36°30'E



                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                    To                             To                           Hims
                                                                                                                               Al Hamidiyah                   Tall Kalakh
                                                                                                                                                          Kabir




                   LEBANON                                                                                                                                Qoubauyat
                                                                                                                                          Halba
34°30'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34°30'N
                                                                                                                                          Funaydiq                                                                          To
                                                                                                Tripoli                         Abou Moussa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Al Qusayr


                                                                                                                  Zhgarta
                                                                                                                  Zhgarta                                                        Hermel
                                                                                                                                                                                 Hermel
                                                                                                                   NORTH
                                                                              Chekka
                                                                                                                  LEBANON
                                                                                                                   Sib’
                                                                                                                   Sib’il
                                                                                                                   Sib’il                                                                                    Qaa




                                                                                                                                                                                     ntes
                                                                                                                             Ihdin
                                                                                          Amioun




                                                                                                                                                                                 O ro
                                                                                                                                 Bcharri




                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                        Ja o




                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s.
                                                                                         z
                                                                                                Douma              Qur nat
                                                                                                                   Qurnat




                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                        Al Labwah
                                                                                                                   as Sawda’
                                                                                                                      Sawda’                                                                                            tn
                                                                                                                                              Aynata
                                                                                                                                              Aynata                                                                M




                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                   (3,088 m)
           M e di t e r r a n e a n




                                                                                                                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                                                                                                                e               n




                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                            l




                                                                                                                                                                                                          no
                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                   Sea                                                                         Al Aqurah                                                                                                                            To




                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                 a                                                An Nabk




                                                                                                                                                                                                       b
                                                                     Jbeil




                                                                                                                                              n




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Le
                                                                                                                                                                             V




                                                                                                                                          o




                                                                                                                                                                                                 i-
                                                                                          Ibrahim




                                                                                                                                                                                            nt
                                                                                                                Afqa                                                a




                                                                                                                                       n




                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                               a



                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                          k     Baalbeck
                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                b
34°00'N                                                         Jounie                                                                                                                                                            34°00'N
                                                                                                                            e                     B
                                                                               MOUNT
                                                                                                                         L

                                             BEIRUT                           LEBANON                                        BEKAA
                                                                    Antilyas
                                             BEIRUT
                                                                                                                                     Rayak
                                               Baabda                    Hammana
                                                                                                                       Zahleh
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                              Az Zabadani
                                                                                                           ni
                                                                                                       ita
                                         Damour
                                                                                                    L




                                                                    Beit
                                                                    ed Dine

                                               Jieh                                                                            To
                                                                                                                               Ad Dimas
                                                                                                Joub Jannine

                                                  A w w a li
                          Saida
                                                                                     Qaraaoun
                                                        Jezzine
                   El Zahrani
33°30'N                                                                                                 Rachaiya                                                                                                                  33°30'N

                                                                                                                                              0                10                20                    30 Kilometers
                                                                                   i
                                                                                 an
                                                                                sb




                                                                                Ha
                                                                                                                                              0                             10                           20 Miles
                                       Nabatiyeh                                                                                                                                                             36°00'E
                                                                   Mar yjayoun
                                                                   Maryjayoun

                                                  N A B AT I Y E H
                                L it a n i
            Tyre
                       SOUTH                                                    To
                                                                              Baniyas
                                                                                                                                                                    LEBANON
                                                                     To
                                                                      o                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                    LEBANON                                        Qiryat
                                                                   Qir yat
                                                      Hula        Shemona
                                Tibnine
                                Tibnine                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
 Naqoura                        Bent Jbail                                                          This map was produced by
                                                                                                    the Map Design Unit of The
                                                           To                                       World Bank. The boundaries,                                 RIVERS
                                     Rmaich               Gadot                                     colors, denominations and
                                                                                                    any other information shown                                 MAIN ROADS
       To                                                                                           on this map do not imply, on
    Nahariyya                                                                                       the part of The World Bank                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the
33°00' N                                                                                            legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                    or any endorsement or                                       GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                    acceptance of such
                                                                                                    boundaries.                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                  35°30'E                                                                36°00'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAY 2011
