Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15207-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 13, 1996
South Asia Region
Country Department I
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1 =  33.00
Rsd  = 0.0333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feet Pound  =  Metric Units
I foot (ft) =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
I mile =   1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre (ac) =  0.405 hectares (ha)
I square mile =  259 ha
I cubic toit/second (cusec) =  0.0283 cubic meters/second (m'/sec)
=  28.323 liters/second
I acre foot =  1,233.5 cubic meters (m')
I poLiund lIb) =  0.454 kilogram (kg)
I loiig ton =  1.016 nietric ton
I pounid (Ih) =  0.454 kilogram (kg)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASO         = After-care Social Organizer                           PAD         = Punjab Agriculture Department
BSBDs       = Bank Standard Bidding Documents                       PC-I        = Planning Commission Proforma Number I
CBO         = communiry based organization                          PCC         = Project Coordination Committee
cca         = canal commanded area                                  PD          = Project Director
CD          = community development                                 PIA         = Project Implementation Consultants
CDSG        = Comimiunity Development and Support Group             PIES        =  Project Impact Evaluation Studies
CPPR        = Country Portfilio Performance Review                  PID         = Punjab Irrigation Department
CTW         = Community Tubewell                                    PIDs        = Provincial Irrigation Departments
CROPWAT =  Program to estimate crop water requirements              PMU         = Project Management Unit
DGWM        = Directorate General of Water Management               PPC         = Provincial Policy Commintee
ERR         = ecottoniic rate if returti                            PTW         = Private Tubewell
ET,.          reference evapotranspiratioti                         P&D         = Planning and development Department
FO          =  Fariiiers' Organization                              RAP         = Revised Action Program
EADA        =  Extra Assistant Director Agriculture                 RSC         = Residual Sodium Carbonate
FGW         = Fresh Groundwater Area                                R&R         = Resettlement and Rehabilitation
GOP         = Government of Pakistan                                SC          = Social Coordinator
GOPunjah   = Government of Punjab                                   SE          = Superintending engineer
ICB         = Itterinational Competitive Bidding                    SCARP       = Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
IBRD        = Intemational Bank for Reconstructioni and             SGW         = saline groundwater area
Developiie iit                                       SMO         = SCARPs Monitoring Organization
IDA         = International Developineiti Association               SO          = Social Organizer
NCB         = National Competitive Bidding                          SOE         = Statement of Expenditure
MAF         = millioni acre feet                                    STW         = SCARP Tubewell
MIS         = nianagement information system                        TC          = Technical Coordinators
M&E         = monlitoring and evaluation                            TOR         = terms of reference
NGO         = non0 governmental organizationi                       WAPDA    = Water and Power Development Authority
N PV        = net present value                                     W/C         = Watercourse
O&M         = Operation and Maintenance                             WUA         = Water User Association
OCC         = opportunity cost of capital (12 percent)              XEN         = Executive Engineer
OFWM        = On-Farns Water Management
GLOSSARY
abiaila        water charges levied Oin the basis of croppinig patterns
clsak       = tertiary irrigation c(ommanid served by a watercourse
do.db       = Iaiid between two rivers
karaze      = traditionili irrigation system with tutinel conveyance channel
Kharif'     = Summer -- April to October
pucca       = 'permaneit' a term used for tnasotiry sitnicture
puLcat naLLa = nitasouiry'concrete outlet to farim units aiid fields
Rabi        = Winier - November to March
mog,la      = uncontrolled outlet from parent channel to chak
tebsil      = adminisirative unit below the district
s:arkari klhal = ci insmiiunal portiori of waterciurse



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary.. ..................  iii
1.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ...........................                                                                        I
A .    Introduction   .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
B. Agriculture  ...........................................................   I
Irrigation sector  ....................................................  2
C. Groundwater Potential and Development  .................................... .                                3
Public Tubewell Developmelt .4
Private Tubewells Development.                                                                        5
Community Tubewell Development.                                                                       5
Behavior of Groundwater Aquifers.                                                                     6
D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy..                                                                            6
E. Government Policy.                                                                                           7
F. Bank Group Support and Lessons Learned.                                                                      8
Bank Group Support.                                                                                   8
Lessons Learned.                                                                                      9
G  Rational for IDA  Involvement .............................................   10
II.   THE PROJECT AREA                         ......................................                                   I I
A. Physical Features ......................................................   II
Location  ........................................................   II
Climate and Soils  ..................................................   11
Water Resources ...................................................   12
B. Relevant Water Sector Institutions and Regulations  ..............................   13
Water Sector Institutions  ............................................   13
Existing Legislation and Regulations  .....................................   14
C. Farm  Size, Agricultural Production, and Marketing  ...............................   15
Farm  Size and Tenure  ...............................................   15
Agriculture Production .......... .         .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .  .   .   15
Marketing  .............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .   16
Ill.  THE PROJECT .............. .. ... .. ... ..                                                                      17
A. Project Objectives ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .      ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .   .   17
B. Project Description ................ ................................... .  17
Tubewells Disinvestment .17
Development of Regulatory Framework .20
Improvement of Irrigation Facilities in Fresh Groundwater Areas .21
Prevention of Saline Groundwater Intrusion .22
Monitoring and Evaluation .24
Project Management .24
Technical Assistance and Training .25
This report is based on the findings of IDA/FAOCP Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal missions which visited Pakistan
in July, 1994 and June, 1995 respectively. The missions comprised of Messrs. Masood Ahmad (Task Manager),
Usman Qamar, Staurt Bell, Guy Motha (IDA), Daud Khan (FAO/CP), David Lugg, Nelson Plummer, Barry Deren,
Richard English (Consultants). The peer reviewers are Messrs. Herve Plusquellec (AGRNR), Harald Frederiksen
(ASTEN), Hugo Diaz (SAICA), Andrew Ewing (PSD), Bhuvan Bhatnagar (ENVSP), and Ashok Subramanian
(AGRPW). The Country Director is Ms. Mieko Nishimizu (SAIDR), while the Division Chief is Mr. Ridwan Ali
(SA I AN).



ii
VI.         COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS  .........                                                            ..            ..............  26
A.  Project Costs  Estimates   .................................................    26
B.  Project Financing  .......2.......................7......................                                                                         27
C.  Procurement  .........................................................                                                                            28
D.  Disbursement  ........................................................                                                                            30
Special Account and  Retroactive  Financing   ..............                                  II            .................    30
E.          Project Accounts and  Audit   ...........................................    31
V.          ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT AND COST RECOVERY  .........                                                               ..           .............  31
A.  The  Role of Implementingr Agencies   ........................................    31
Project Managemenit Unit  .............................................    31
NGO's  Role   ................................................    34
FO's Role ... 34
Project Coordination .35
Proiect Coordination Commii1ittee .35
P'rovincial Policy Committee .35
C. Implementation and Supervision .36
D. Operation, Maintenance and Cost Recovery ....................................  37
Operation. Maintenance   ..............................................    37
Recovery  of Capital Costs   ............................................    38
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ......... 40
A.  Agricultural Production    .................................................                                                                      40
Water Availability  ..................................................    40
Methodology  of Project Impact Assessment   ................................    41
Impact on  Production  ................................................    41
B.  Markets and  Prices    ....................................................    41
C.  Farm   Income    ............                                     ...........................................    42
Farm   Models   .....................................................    42
Impact on  Incomes   .................................................    42
VIl.        BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION   AND   RISKS  ................                                              ......................    43
A.  Benefits and  Justification   ................................................    43
Quantified  Benefits   .................................................    43
Other Benefits ................. ..................................  44
B.  Economic  Analysis   ....................................................    44
C.  Environmental  Effects   ..................................................    44
D.  Risks and  Sensitivitv  Analysis  .............................................    45
VIII.       AGREEMENTS  AND   RECOMMENDATIONS    ...................................    47
ANNEXES
1.         Physical Features of the Project Area
2.         Cost of Major Project Elements
3.         Termis of Reterence for Project Implemetaktiolt Consultants
4.         Farmers Participation Plan
5.         Groundwater Management and Regulationi
6.         Terms of Reference for Project Impact Evaluation
7.         Project Costs
8.         Schedule of Disbursements
9.         Project Implementation Plan
10          Financial and Economic Prices
H.          Farm  Models and Ecottomic Analysis
12.         Estimation of Economic Prices for Major Commodities
CHART  I:                Organizational Chart of Project Management Unit
CHART 2:                 Organizational Chart of Community Development Support Group
MAP:                     IBRD No. 27738 and 27739



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP)
Implementing Agency:       Pun.iab. Planiniiig and Development Department through  a Project
Managamiienit Unit.
Beneficiaries:             Puni iab.  Planinilng  and  Developmenit.  Irrigation  and  Agriculture
Departmiienlts.
Poverty Category:          P'rogram  of Targeted Intervention.  The project is included in the
programi of targeted intervenitionls for poverty alleviation because
proportioni of poor benefiting from the project is much larger than their
proportioni in Punjab's total population.  The project would increase
incomiies of smiall farmiers and provide additional wage employment for
comlimuniity members.
Amount:                    SDR 38.5 millioni (US$56.0 million)
Terms:                     Credit: Stanidard with 35 years maturity
Commitment Charge:         Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5 percent of the undisbursed
credit balanice set aninually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
On Lending Terms:          GOP  will pass the credit proceeds to GOPunjab under standard
ariainyeiments for development assistance to the provinces.
Financing Plan:            See para 4.3.
Economic Rate Return:    24 percenit.
Staff Appraisal Report:    15207-PAK
Maps:                      IBRD 27738 and
IBRD 27739
Project Identification
Number:                    PAK-PA-10501






PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
I . I          The groundwater use has been a major factor in the growth of agricultural production in
Pakistan over the past two decades. Groundwater tubewells not only supply additional water but have
provided flexibility to match canal water supplies with crop water requirements. Before 1960s the
development of the groundwater tubewells was limited to open dug wells operated by animal power
mostly outside the canal command areas. Large scale development of groundwater resources was first
attempted by the Government under Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs program) for
controlling waterlogging and salinity. Under the SCARP projects, about 13,500 publically owned and
operated tubewells were installed. In areas underlain by fresh groundwater (FGW), water from SCARP
tubewells (STWs) was used to supplement canal supplies.   SCARP tubewells had a significant
demonstrative effect in starting private tubewell development in fresh groundwater areas. As a result,
private tubewells (PTWs) grew rapidly and there are now more than 300,000 private tubewells in the
country. With rapidly growing private sector and declining performance of SCARP tubewells, there is
need for redefining the role of the Government in the groundwater development. Hence, redefinition of
this role in Punjab's groundwater development sector is the main objective of this project.
1.2            The project builds on the experiences of SCARP Transition, Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation. On-Farm Water Management programs and Private Tubewell Development Projects. This
staff appraisal report is based on the preparation report' by the Government with assistance of UNDP2
and the findiiigs of Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal missions which visited Punjab during July, 1994 and
June, 1995. respectively.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.3            Although the share of agriculture in the economy has been slowly decreasing, it is still
the backbone of the economy, employing more than 50 percent of the labor force and earning (directly
or indirectly) 70 percent of export revenues3. Total cultivated area is 21 million hectares (ha), with
overall cropping intensity of 101 percent. About 55 percent of the cropped area is under food-grains,
the most important of which are wheat and rice. The main cash crops are cotton and sugarcane, grown
on 12.4 and 4 percent of land, respectively. Cotton and high quality rice (Basmati) are important export
crops, and Pakistan is one of the leading cotton exporters in the world. Other major crops include
fodder, fruit and vegetables.
Third SCARP Transition Project. Project Preparation Report, Associated Consulting Engineering (ACE), May 1994.
Preparation was funded under. Investment Project Preparation in Water Sector --Umbrella-1l (PAK1881016) project financed by the
Umted Nations Development Program (UNDP).
Agricultuial policy and strategies for growth are the subject of a recent Bank report, "Pakistan: A Strategy for Sustainable Agricultural
Growthi". Report No.13092 PAK, November 3, 1994.



1.4           Most of the poor live in rural areas. Agriculture has particularly strong interaction with
rural poverty. Flight from rural areas is a contributing factor to urban poverty. Although absolute
poverty in Pakistan declined from 40 percent of rural population in the early-1960s to 25 percent by the
mid 1980s, this reduction is much less than East Asian countries with similar agricultural growth rates.
Agriculture is the primary user of natural resources --land and water resources. The development in the
sector has a direct impact on the incidence and pattern of poverty, natural resource management and
environmental protection, andi therefore, on sustainable development.
1.5           The sector has generally performed well, growing by more than three percent per annum
over the last three decades. The sources of growth have changed over the years: during the 1960s,
growth was mostly the result of the rapid uptake of the improved seed, fertilizer and irrigation packages;
during the 1970s it was the intensification of water and fertilizer use; and in the 1980s it was
improvement in crop management and incentives. The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has recently
launched a major economic reform progranm with the objectives of adjustment and growth. Agriculture
would have to play an important role in this process. However. there is limited scope for expanding
cultivable land or irrigation supplies and future growth has to rely on more efficient use of limited
resources. There is a particular need to ensure efficiency and sustainability in the management of land
and water, which are the two most important natural resources.
Irrigation Sector
1.6           Pakistan's agriculture is almost wholly dependent on irrigation --irrigated land supplies
more than 90 percent of agricultural production. Agriculture in most areas is not possible without
irrigation because the climate in Pakistan is arid to semi-arid witlh low and variable rainfall. Annual
rainfall over much of area is not more than 150 mm per annum, and evaporation is very high, ranging
from 1,250 mm to 2,800 mm per annum. However, there are abundant surface water resources in the
Indus Basin, which covering 566,000 km2 (70 percent of the country), is the major source of Pakistan's
water. The Indus Basin Irrigation System commands about 14 million ha which accounts for the bulk
of the agriculturally productive land. Annual river inflows average about 180 billion m3 of which about
130 billion m3 are diverted to canals. The Indus Basin Irrigation System is composed of three major
reservoirs (Chasma, Mangla and Tarbela)4, 19 barrages, 12 link canals, 43 canal conmnands and over
107,000 watercourses. The length of the canals is about 58,000 km, with communal watercourses (W/C),
farm channels and field ditches running another 1.6 million km.
1.7           In the Indus systein, river water is diverted by barrages and weirs into main canals and
subsequently into branch canal, distributaries and minors. Open, free-flowing outlets (moghas) regulate
water flow from distributaries and minors to W/Cs. Watercourse command area (chak) is a complex
miniature irrigation system with an average length of channels of 16 km. Water distribution to the field
is governed by a weekly time rotation (warabandi) based on the size of the land holding.
1.8           The canal system is also a major source of recharge for the groundwater. In fresh areas,
groundwater is pumped by public and private tubewells to supplement canal supplies. About 11,000
publically owned and operated STWs currently pump approximately 9 billion m3 annually. Pumpage
from STWs, however, is declining. On the other hand, with rapidly growing number of private tubewells
(PTWs) pumpage from groundwater is over 60 billion mi. STWs pump water in the communal
watercourses and it is distributed through the warabandi system. PTWs are mostly located on the farms
and farmers have more flexibility in their operation. Water supply from public tubewells is relatively
less significant --less than 15 percent of total groundwater pumpage or equivalent of less than 7 percent
Total live storage capacity of three reservoirs is about 18 billion m'.



of canal water diversions. However, public tubewells require about half of Government's irrigation
operation and maintenance (O&M) expenditures.
1.9            Flat topography and lack of well-defined natural drainage in the Indus Plain create a
surface drainage problem. The problem has been compounded by the construction of roads, railways,
flood embankments and irrigation systems that obstruct natural flows. The irrigation systems were
developed without provision of drainage. Over the years, about 14,000 km of surface drains have been
constructed in Punjab and more recently in the tail reaches of Rohri and Nara canal commands in Sindh.
The surface and subsurface drainage systems are inadequate. Under SCARPs, attempts were made to
meet the subsurface drainage iieeds through deep tubewells. A limited area is provided with tile drainage.
1. 10          About 2.2 million ha of irrigated land is outside Indus canal commanded area (cca),
scattered in relatively small parcels with water coming from open wells, tubewells, lift pumps, karezes,
springs, and small diversions. Generally, water supply in these system  is uncertain and varies with
season and location. Farmers have a major role in the management of these systems and some of these
were developed by communities themselves. Normally, these system do not suffer from waterlogging
and salinity problems.
1.11           While the irrigation and drainage systems are central to Pakistan's economy, they are
facing severe problems.  Despite Government's substantial budgetary input, the system is facing a
shortage of resources and suffering from severe and worsening operational problems. In addition to water
scarcity, major problems facing the sector are: inefficient management of water systems (that is low
delivery efficiency, and inequitable distribution); waterlogging and salinity; over exploitation of
groundwater in fresh groundwater areas: inadequate O&M; and insufficient cost recovery. The average
delivery efficiency is reported to be about 35 to 40 percent from the canal head to the root zone, but
actual is even worse. Most of the losses are in the watercourses. The loss of such a major part of
surface water not only reduces available water for crops but it also contributes to waterlogging and
salinity. Another serious problem is inequitable distribution. Excessive losses compared with the original
desigin also meanis that water does not reach the tail end of the system. Moreover, illegal pumping from
canals adds to the inequity of distribution. Poorly maintained watercourses have the highest incidence
of illegal diversions. Many of the above problems are worsened by an excessive Government role with
inadequate participation of the beneficiaries in the system management.
C. Groundwater Potential and Development
. 12           Most of the Indus Basin has been formed as a result of alluvium deposits derived by rivers
from the miountaini ranges in the north. These alluvial deposits consist principally of fine and medium-
grained sands and silts. although there are discontinuous lenses of silt and clay. Their depth ranges from
450( m in upper Punjab to about 60 m in lower Sindh, where it is layered with silty and heavy deltaic
sediment. There is a vast unconfined aquifer of around 6 million ha covering most of this area. The
water table is mostly high and has been rising due to lack of drainage. The hydrogeological conditions
are mostly favorable for pumping by tubewells. Groundwater quality is variable, ranging from fresh near
the major rivers to highly saline further away. In some areas, groundwater is saline even near the rivers
due to local salt deposits. In total, about 79 percent of the area in Punjab and 28 percent of the area in
Sindh has fresh groundwater5 which is suitable for irrigation. However, the residual sodium carbonate
(RSC) which results from use of groundwater is often high. Exclusive reliance on groundwater can lead
to a build-up of salts. resulting in binding of the soil structure, reduced water infiltration into the root
zone and falling yields. Ideally, groundwater should be mixed with canal water for irrigation use.
Total dissol ed salt less than 1 .200 ppm and electrical conductivity less than 2 mmhos.



-4-
Public Tubewell Development
1.13          By the 1950s, large areas in the Indus basin became waterlogged and soil salinity
increased, adversely affecting the agricultural productivity. Government involvement in the groundwater
development began with efforts to control the "twin menaces" of waterlogging and salinity by providing
drainage. The Government embarked on a series of SCARPs in the late-1950s aimed at lowering the
groundwater table by providing "vertical drainage" through large capacity. deep tubewells (60-140 liters
per second capacities and depth of 40-120 meters). Because of better economic returns, priority was
given to locating SCARPs in the areas where groundwater quality was suitable for supplemental
irrigationi, making the drainage a by-product in effect.  Over the last three decades about 13,500 STWs
have been installed by the Government in 36 projects covering a gross area of about 3.7 million ha. Most
of the STWs were equipped with electrically powered motors and deep turbine pumps with a relatively
large capacity of about 3 cusecs (.085 cubic meters/second).  Almost 75 percent of all STWs were
installed in the Punjab --8,000 in fresh groundwater areas and 1.800 in saline groundwater areas. In
saline grounidwater areas the STWs pumped water into drains or, when this was not possible, into the
larger canals. In FGW areas, water from STWs was normally pumped into watercourses and used for
irrigation along with surface water sL, plies. Bank involvement in public tubewell development was
limitetd to ilstallation of STWs in saline areas of Punjab under SCARP VI project (Cr. 0754-PAK).
1.14   Performance and Sustainability of SCARP Tubewells.         STWs were generally successful
in meeting their objective of maintaining the groundwater tables at desirable levels and providing a
supplemilentary source of irrigation. Their performance, however, declined over time due to poor
management and inadequate availability of funds for O&M. Presently, most of the STWs are very old,
equipment has worn out resulting in frequent breakdowns, and well capacities' are significantly below
their original designs. In Punjab, about half of STWs are below 50 percent of original capacity and only
15 percent have more than 80 percent. The utilization of STWs at present is considerably lower than it
was originally and water supplies have become unreliable due to the factors mentioned above and
prolonged blackouts due to power shortage and an unreliable public grid.
1.15          The O&M  costs of STWs have increased mlainyfold due to rapidly increasing power
tariffs, wages and mainitenance and replacement requirements.  Presently, the Punjab Irrigation
Departmenit (PID) is responsible for all O&M  costs of STWs. These cost include electricity charges,
repair and mainteniance, operation of special workshops for repairs, salary of a full-time operator and
higher managemiient, and other establishment costs. Funding for O&M of these tubewells is provided to
PID by the Government of Punjab (GOPunjab) through non-development budgetary allocations.
Expenditures for O&M of STWs in FGW areas of Punjab during fiscal year 1994-95 were almost equal
to O&M expenditures on canals while actual requirement were even more. Budget allocations for O&M
of STWs in 1995-96 exceed the allocations for canals. Annually they are more than Rs. 150,000/STW.
1.16          Water charges (abiania) are based on crop acreage and type of crop. In Punjab, farmers
receiving water from canals as well as from STWs are liable for paying double water charge (double
abianaia). (twice the amount of farmers receiving water from canals only). However, present water
charges only recover about 35 percent of provincial O&M costs on the irrigation and drainage systems.
Since O&M cost of STWs, per unit of water supplied, is much higher than canals, the provincial subsidy
for the O&M of STWs is many times more than for canals. Despite these expenditures water delivery
service from STWs has deteriorated due to institutional deficiencies. These include lack of motivation
and accountability of agency staff, high levels of political interference and rent seeking, as well as
inadequate conicerin for the needs of users.
Specitic capacity ot the well detiined as discharge per unit leIngd Ul drawdown, e.g. cusecs per foot of drawdowit



1.17           The void created due to institutional weaknesses is filled to some extent by informal
farmers' groups which have sprung up in STW areas. These groups look after daily operations, such as
switching on the pumps' and regular maintenance. They also carry out repairs using local mechanics,
electricians and other services from the local markets. Funds for these repairs are usually collected on
an ad hoc basis from the benefiting farmers. However, farmers find it difficult to carry out repairs
involving the main shaft of turbine pumps as it requires specialized equipment available from PID
workshops. Nevertheless, they do follow up and assist PID in expediting such repairs.
1.18           The operation of STWs in the public sector is unsustainable due to institutional
weaknesses as well as financial and economic reasons. The institutional weakness essentially arise from
centralized management and lack of transparency without any formal participation of beneficiaries. Due
to the overall resource scarcity Pakistan is facing presently, it is becoming increasingly difficult to
allocate adequate funds for operation of STWs, and replacement of old ones. The economic cost of
pumping water by elect:iuity operated STW  is much higher (Rs. 0.20 per cubic meter) than diesel
operated shallow tubewells (Rs. 0. 10 per cubic meter).
Private Tubewell Development
1.19           A virtuil explosion in the private tubewells development followed the introduction of
tubewell technology by the public sector. Currently there are over 300,000 PTWs installed for irrigation
purposes, of which 80 percent are in the Punjab supplying 40 percent of all irrigation water. PTWs are
predominantly small shallow wells which use locally manufactured engines and centrifugal pumps. Their
average capacity is one cusec (0.028 ml per second) with maximum  size of two cusecs.  More
importantly, as yields and input levels rose, so did the importance of timely and adequate water supplies.
By installing PTWs, farmers reduce their risks of crop failure and improve yields by smoothing out
natural and operational fluctuations ;n water supplies from the canal system. Even in the STWs areas
of Punjab there are more than 50,000 PTWs. While returns to tubewells are high, the utilization rates
are very low. PTWs are used by both headenders and tailenders, although the tailenders rely more on
groundwater. Most PTWs are owned by medium to large farmers with holdings of five hectares or more.
Presently, there is neither any mechanism for allocating groundwater rights nor for regulating its use.
Any land owner can install a tubewell and begin pumping groundwater and in some areas there has been
over-exploitation due to anarchic private tubewell development.
Community Tubewell Development
1.20           There are a very limited number of community tubewells (CTWs) in operation, many of
which date back to the early 1960s with roots in the cooperative movement. The CTWs are set up and
operated by informal farmers' organizations with day to day management entrusted to one person who
is paid an honorarium. Like STWs, CTWs pump water into watercourses and this is shared either on
the basis of fixed turns (varabandi), on demand, or a mixture of both. The basis for levying charges
also varies. Charges are levied either on the basis of irrigated land, hours supplied, or both.8 Within
the CTW  command, farmers also supplement supplies through PTWs. Recently, about 550 CTWs in
Punjab and 150 CTWs in Sindh have been installed under Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. 2257-
PAK). Farmers' Organizations (FOs) have installed these CTWs, with project assistance, and accepted
Due to powe~r imterruptions as well as low voltage the tubewells trips off and often has to be turned on several time every day. This
is otten donie hs the farmer on whose land STW is located or whose house is nearest.
In one area CTW sk ater was charged at the rate of Rs. 5.0 per hour. However, in most months this was not enough to cover all
expenditures and additionial amounts were then collected through a levy on land holdings. Famiers paid up to Rs. 8.0 per acre in
soflic inioiithis.



- 6 -
full responsible for their O&M. More than 1,000 registered FOs have expressed interest in replacing
STWs with CTWs and the number is increasing. Therefore, in view of promising start more STWs are
being assigned for privatization under this model.
Behavior of Groundwater Aquifers
1.21            In the Indus Basin as a whole, recharge to the groundwater aquifers and extractions' are
in balance."  However, in the fresh groundwater areas of Punjab pumpage exceeds recharge and as a
result the water table is falling. In contrast, in the saline areas the water table is rising. The same holds
true in SCARP areas. In all FGW SCARP water tables are falling." This situation has reduced the
need for drainage to lower groundwater table, and unlike the original objectives of providing drainage -
-a public good, the STWs are merely supplying irrigation water which is a private good. Therefore,
government involvement in the operation of STWs is no longer justifiable.
1.22    Regulation of Groundwater Use.            In the past rising and not falling groundwater tables were
the major problem.  Therefore, government encouraged the installation of tubewells through tax
incentives and subsidies. The situation now is reversing in most of FGW areas, therefore, for sustainable
use of groundwater resources the need for enforcement of suitable regulations is more pressing now.
Existing legislation'2 include provisions for the control over groundwater aquifers, however, these were
never implemented, mainly because regulation was seen unnecessary. The monitoring, and regulation
of groundwater exploitation is a government function. However, to enable government to regulate
groundwater use successfully, its institutional capacity has to be enhanced in groundwater monitoring,
refining regulation requirements, assessments of safe cxploitation levels and allocation of rights, staffing,
technical competence, and organizational arrangements for implementation of regulatory functions. While
the proposed National Drainage Program would strengthen national capacity for groundwater monitoring,
the project would address local monitoring for the implementation of regulations, assessment of
sustainable yields from aquifers as well as capacity for implementing regulations.
D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy
1.23            The overall objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Pakistan is to help reduce
poverty.  To address this objective, the Bank's approach highlights two closely linked challenges:
improving the inadequate basic social services and reducing constraints to sustained growth. Expanding
access to and improving the quality of basic social services are essential to improve living standards in
Pakistan, which now has dismal social indicators. In addition to assisting the completion of fiscal
adjustment, the Bank's strategy is to support the growth objectives by focusing on structural reforms,
improving the enabling environment for the private sector, strengthening inadequate basic infrastructure,
Groundwater aquifers are recharged by rain, rivers, seepage from canals. watercourses and fields. Extractions include. evaporation
and pumpage by tubewells.
Altinad M. and G.P.Kutcher, "Irrigation Planning with Environmental Considerations: A Case Study of Pakistan", World Bank
Technical Paper Number 166, Washinigton D.C., April 1992.
Except in SCARP III where large areas are waterlogged due excessive diversions of canal water, lirtle use of groundwater and
inadequate drainage. These areas would require reallocation of canal water and drainage before tratisferring STWs to the private
sectorr.
Water and Power Developimienit Autliority, Act 1958.
Punjah Soil Reclamation Act. 1952 and Rules issued in 1965.



reducing constraints on agriculture productivity, and protecting Pakistan's natural resource base. In
focussing assistance on public policy, institutional development, critical public investments for private
sector led growth, and strengthening the basis for private investments, the Bank is assisting the
redefinition of the public and private sectors in Pakistan.
1.24           In agriculture, the focus of our policy dialogue is on reshaping the public and private
sector roles. The Bank supports maintaining a high rate of agricultural growth, with emphasis on further
improving the link between agricultural growth and poverty alleviation, and ensuring environmentally
sustainable agricultural development. The Bank's short- and medium-term assistance will focus on: (a)
redefining the roles of the public and private sectors in all aspects of agriculture with fundamental shifts
in the irrigation and drainage subsector towards more decentralized and participatory management
systems; (b) reducing distortions in input and output prices and trade regimes; (c) improving efficiency
of agricultural public expenditures; (d) strengthening natural resource management by emphasizing local
institutions: and (e) strengthening support services to increase productivity and diversify agriculture.
1.25           In irrigation and drainage, Bank is encouraging the Government to adopt a completely
new approach.'3 Consistent with the country assistance strategy, the goals of establishing an efficient,
self-sustaining irrigation and drainage system are to be achieved by promoting the use of market-
determined incentives for improving the supply and management of irrigation and drainage services, and
by giving the private sector a greater stake in the system. The irrigation service would be decentralized
and privatized by developing commercially oriented public utilities (PUs) on a canal command basis, and
suitable FOs. and by formalizing water rights and water markets. Autonomous provincial authorities
would be developed for water delivery to PUs and handling off-farm drainage and regulatory bodies for
regulating the PUs and groundwater resources.
1.26           The restructuring of irrigation services cannot be achieved immediately, and must be done
in steps for successful implementation. The transformation of surface systems would be implemented
through a series of canal command level pilot projects in which PUs and FOs will be formed. The total
transition may take from 15 to 20 years. These pilots are under preparation in all provinces and would
be supported through other projects or sector loans such as National Drainage and Irrigation Programs.
While implementation of the strategy in the surface systems is still evolving, considerable experience
already exists in the country in private tubewell development and divestment of public tubewells.
Building upon this experience, the proposed project would be a major step towards implementing the
irrigation and drainage strategy in groundwater sector while leading the way for reforms in the
management of the surface systems. It fits into the Bank Group's country assistance strategy as it would
provide assistance in: (a) redefining the role of government in the groundwater development; (b) assigning
groundwater rights and developing regulatory framework for ensuring sustainable use of groundwater
resources; (c) improving water use efficiency; (d) rationalizing public expenditures for O&M of the
irrigation and drainage systems, and strengthening the principles of capital cost recovery in the sector;
(e) enhancing community participation, thereby, building a solid base for ultimately transferring all
irrigation systems to the beneficiaries; and (f) protecting the environment by controlling saline water
intrusion into fresh aquifers.
E. Government Policy
1.27           Since the 1980s, Pakistan has developed a comprehensive policy reform framework to
address its development challenges. The strategy concentrates on three broad development goals:
Pakistait-Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options, Report No. 11884-PAK. March 25, 1994.



accelerating efforts to tackle poverty and human resources development issues; strengthening enabling
environment for the private sector; and improving management of Pakistan's natural resources and the
environment. 4
1.28            The Government agrees with  the  Bank's assistance  strategy  in agriculture, and
irrigation/drainage sectors for achieving development goals. Government strategy in irrigation and
drainage sectors reflected in the Eighth Five Year Plan (1993-98)'5 is fully in line with Bank's assistance
strategy. The Government has started the institutional reforms by initiating the formation of Area Water
Boards at the canal command level and Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities at the provincial
levels.  For implementation of the strategy the government has started preparation of several pilot
projects. In the groundwater sector, a major shift in the Goverrnent's policy towards greater private
sector role dates back to the Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP, 1979).16  The
Government endorsed the RAP recommendations for transferring the groundwater development
responsibility, as well as STWs to the private sector in 1980, and adopted it as a part of revised National
Agricultural Policy. This policy has been reiterated in the Sixth (1983-88) as well as in the Seventh
(1988-93) Five Year Plans. The government is implementing these policies by instituting a moratorium
on the installation and replacement of public tubewells in the fresh groundwater areas and by supporting
projects aimed at divestment of public tubewells.   The Government is strongly  committed to
privatization  of groundwater development.   During  the current Five Year Plan  (Eighth) the
Government plans to support transfer of 8,000 STWs to the private sector. Subsequent to a pilot project
in Punjab under which 213 STWs water divested, the Government is privatizing 1,346 STWs in Punjab
and 380 STWs in Sindh under the Second Scarp Transition Project.
F. Bank Group Support and Lessons Learned
Bank Group Support
1.29            Pakistan's agricultural development efforts have attracted substantial support from  the
Bank Group. To date, about 60 agricultural (and Environment) projects in Pakistan have received
US$2.3 billion equivalent of IBRD/IDA financing (68 percent IDA'7 and 32 percent IBRD), the majority
of which has been for irrigation. Projects have also included: agricultural support services (credit,
research and extension); commercial agriculture (seeds and agro-industry), forestry, watershed,
environment protection and resource conservation; livestock development; and flood damage restoration.
Bank's involvement in the water sector dates back to the successful settlement of the apportionment of
the Indus water between Pakistan and India. Until mid-1970s, the Bank assisted with the construction
of large dams and link canals to develop additional water supplies. The Bank also assisted GOP with its
program for controlling waterlogging and salinity. In the 1980s, increasing attention was devoted to
irrigation systems rehabilitation, on-farm water management, and private tubewell development along with
controlling the problems of waterlogging and salinity, and providing an outlet to the sea through the Left
Bank Outfall Drain for disposing Indus basin's drainage effluent. In addition to providing financial
'    The Go vernmient's reform program is detailed in several major policy/operational docunients: the Fourth Policy Framework
Paper. ihe Letter of Development Policy for PSAL, the Letter of Intent for ESAF. the Social Action Program, the National
Conservation Strategy, and five year plans, particularly eighth five year plan.
"    Eighth Five Year Plan, Government of Pakistan, Planning Commission, Draft May, 1994.
The Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP), resulting from the UNDP financed. WAPDA implemented
Indus Planning Study (PAK.'74/044), for which the Bank was executing agency, was completed in May. 1979.
,7   About 4(0 perceit of total IDA lending to Pakistan is in agriculture and environmental sectors.



assistance, the Bank has traditionally played a critical role in the water sector policies, investment
planning and donor coordination. Major sectoral planning studies have been carried out with Bank
assistance, such as Indus Special Study (1967)'8, RAP (1979), Water Sector Investment Planning Study
(1990), Drainage Sector Environrnental Assessment (1993). Bank's recent Agriculture, and Irrigation
and Drainage sector strategies are leading the sectors in new directions and its financial assistance, as well
as policy advice, have contributed to attaining self-sufficiency and export generation in the past decade.
Lessons Learned
1.30   There can be no doubt that the provision of irrigation and drainage facilities have had a major
positive impact on agricultural production in Pakistan. It is also evident that farmers generally respond
well when provided with reliable and timely irrigation service.  Nevertheless, there is room  for
considerable improvement in all aspects of planning, design, implementation and O&M of irrigation
systems. The Bank-supported projects have suffered implementation delays due to slow GOP approval
process, delays in recruitment of consultants, inadequate procurement procedures and inadequately
capitalized contractors, unresponsive managemuent, and problems in inter-agency coordination. In order
to avoid delays due to GOP approvals, the preparation of PC-I`9 was started immediately following the
project appraisal and it has been approved by the Provincial Development Working Party (PDWP).
Similarly, recruitment of project implementation consultants has been completed before Board
presentation. Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (BSBDs) would be used to reduce delays due to
procurement procedures, improve transparency and attract well-capitalized reputable contractors. For
smooth implementation as well as to allow flexibility, the project would be implemented through a
separate Project Management Unit (PMU), with a minimal staff but supported by management and social
consultants.
1.31    Beneficiary Participation.    In the past, government planned, implemented and operated the
irrigation and drainage system without much consultation with the beneficiaries. Farmers started to play
a significant role under IDA assisted On-Farm Water Management Prograrn (OFWM). Under OFWM,
formal Water Users' Associations were formed and registered to contribute to the lining of watercourses.
In Punjab, WUAs' provide skilled (masons) and urskilled labor, 30 percent of the material cost in six
installments over three years, and provide assistance in supervising the implementation. The WUAs play
a critical role in improving watercourses. However, many become inactive after completion of civil
works. The main reason for their inactivity is that Government keeps control of irrigation water as well
as revenue collection, water supply increases slightly while O&M requirements reduce. As a result,
WUAs do not have any function essential for operation of irrigation systems. Several measures are taken
in the proposed project towards developing sustainable FOs. FOs will be involved in planning,
implementation and O&M of irrigation facilities, especially the CTWs. FOs will control water supply
from the tubewells and have a continuous function --supplying water to its members, collecting revenue
and carrying out O&M without interference from any Government agency. They will remain active in
such an environment. The FOs would decide about the tubewell type (taking over STWs as such, with
modification or installing new ones, electric or diesel), machinery, size, and location of the CTWs. Other
civil works will be constructed after the successful functioning of FOs for at least one year. FOs will
collect funds, operate bank accounts, and plan and participate in the construction and improvement of
surface systems. Contrary to the OFWM in which WUAs were organized by the Government agencies,
The main purpose of die investigations resulting in the report "Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan. a Study in Sector
Planning", which became known as the Indus Special Study (1967) or Action Plan, was to develop a program of optimum
exploitation of water resources that would be available to Pakistan after implementation of the Indus Waters Treaty of 196(1.
PC-I stands for Planning Commission Proforma 1. It is GOP's project appraisal documents and its approval is a condition for
including project funding in the development program and disbursements to the implementing agencies.



- 10 -
specially trained Social Organizers working through local NGOs and village activists, will be responsible
for organizing FOs. The project will also support the training of FOs in the O&M of facilities, record
keeping of expenditure and water charges, operation of bank accounts, and water deliveries to individual
users. Moreover, the full recovery of capital costs with significant recovery up front will also lead to
sustainable participatory initiatives.
1.32   SCARP Transition Projects. The outcome of SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr. 1693-PAK)
and available information on Second SCARP Transition Project (CR. 2257-PAK)20 show that the
objectives of privatizing the groundwater pumpage while controlling the water tables at the desired level
have been met. Experiences of these transition projects are fully incorporated into the project design.
These include: limiting assistance for CTWs only; allowing flexibility to FOs in selecting type, size and
location of CTWs; emphasis on1 transfer of STWs as such to FOs; involvement of social mobilizers and
local NGOs; implementation by an autonomous PMU; training and a redeployment package for surplus
SCARPs O&M staff; linkage with watercourse renovations; and emphasis on monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). Encouraging PTWs to replace STWs results in anarchy, building excessive capacity leading to
over-capitalization and excessive O&M costs; danger of over-exploitation of groundwater, inequity in
water supply, as well as improper conjunctive use of canal and groundwater. Replacing STWs with
CTWs (instead of PTWs) would overcome these shortcomings2". The slow implementation of transition
projects is mainly due to conflicting interests of the implementing agency (PID) which has sole
responsibility for O&M of STWs. With transition of STWs the agency looses significant budgetary
resources and is left with staff redundancies, especially the STW operators. The disgruntled STW
operators, who mostly reside in the same village served by STW create project implementation problems
and a constant source of negative publicity for the project. These problems will be minimized by placing
PMU outside PID and introducing a package for redeployment of STWs staff (including retraining and
a severance package). M&E capacity at federal and provincial levels, which is generally weak, will be
enhanced under the proposed National Drainage Program. However, the project will also support M&E
specifically for groundwater regulations and performance of FOs. For ensuring a timely start, M&E
consultants will be recruited along with management consultants.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.33          Privatization of groundwater development is an important element of Government policy
which IDA supports.  However, its implementation is not easy due to problems associated with
elimination of STW's O&M subsidies and reduction in agency staff. IDA has been instrumental in
shifting the emphasis from groundwater development by the public sector to the private sector, based on
close farmers' involvement. No other donor has similar experience in Pakistan. IDA support is essential
for developing sustainable FOs for operation of community tubewells which are unlikely to emerge
spontaneously. Participatory management of groundwater would provide an excellent base for launching
participatory irrigation management program at the secondary level of the canal systems
(distributaries/minors). The project would also help institutionalize FOs and move towards decentralizing
the provincial irrigation agencies at canal command level public utilities. IDA's role is crucial in
achieving project objectives of reforming the institutional structure and implementing elements of the
irrigation and drainage strategy which was developed and agreed with the Government as result of
'   About 213 STWs were divested under SCARP Transition Pilot Project in Punjab. Approximately 1,346 in Punjab and 380 STWs
in Sindh will be divested under the Second SCARP Transition Project.
Based on the finding of the preparation report of the proposed project, the Second SCARP Transition Project was restructured
and about 230 STWs in Punjab were earmarked for replacement with CTWs only on experimental basis during mid-term review.



- 11 -
extensive sector work done over the last three years.22 IDA's involvement is necessary for redefining
the role of Government in the development of groundwater, development of a regulatory framework,
avoiding environmental hazards of saline water intrusion, and rationalizing public funds for O&M of the
irrigation and drainage systems and improving cost recovery from beneficiaries. The project would
support IDA's poverty relief objectives through its impact on growth of income of small farmers. In
addition, the project would support IDA's environrnental, public-sector management, and private-sector
development objectives.
THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
Location
2.1             The project area lies in the central and southern parts of Punjab Province and falls within
Gujranwala, Sargodha, Faisalabad, Multan and Lahore administrative Divisions (see Maps IBRD 27738
and 27739).23 It consists of fresh groundwater areas of SCARP II (including Shahpur), SCARP III
(Rangpur Unit), SCARP IV and SCARP V (Shorkot Kamalia). It also includes saline groundwater
(SGWs) area of SCARP 11 and saline areas within24 or at the boundaries of FGW areas, where they pose
risks of contaminating the fresh groundwater aquifer. The gross area is about 1.450 million ha, of which
1.188 million ha have FGW, while the canal commanded area (cca) is about 1.295 million ha of which
about 1.071 millions ha have FGW.  SCARPs in Punjab are generally between the major rivers (doabs)
and have flat topography (Annex I Table 1). Location, gross area, and cca of the SCARPs included in
the project are given in Annex I Table 2.
Climate and Soils
2.2             The Punjab (and the project areas) have a continental sub-tropical climate, ranging from
sub-humid in the north-east to arid in the south-west, with hot summers and mild winters. The average
monthly maximum temperatures range from 20C in the winter to over 420C in the summer, with May
and June being the hottest months prior to monsoon rains. The minimum temperatures fall below 5C
in the winter, with December and January being the coolest months. The area lies on the fringe of the
monsoon belt, with more than 70 percent of the rain falling during the monsoon period from June to
September. Average annual rainfall ranges from about 650 mm (Lahore) to 190 nmm (Bahawalnagar),
generally decreasing from the north-east to the south-west(Annex 1, Table 3). Conversely, the annual
reference evapotranspiration (ET() ranges from about 1,650 mm in Lahore to 1,880 mm in Bahawalnagar.
2.3             The soils have been formed from alluvium derived from the mountain ranges to the north
and deposited by the present and ancestral rivers of the Indus basin. The alluvium deposits consist
2-  Irrigation and agriculture strategies are outlined in recent Bank report. "Pakistan-Irrigation and Drainage: Issues an Options", Report
No. I 1884-PAK, March 25 and "Pakistan: A Strategy for Sustainable Agricultural Growth", Report No. 13092 PAK, November 3,
1994. Dissemination of the strategies was done through a series of national and international seminars and workshops organized by
the Bank, Government, and farming communities.
23   These Divisions include Gujrat, Sargodha. lhang, Muzaffargarh, Mandi Bahauddin, Sialkot. Gujranwala, Sheikupura, and Toba Tek
Singh districts
'    Often salinc groundwater pockets occur within overwhelmingly fresh groundwater areas and vice versa.



- 12 -
principally of fine and medium-grained sand and silt, although there are discontinuous lenses of silt and
clay. As a result, the alluvial deposits, which are from 12 to 500 meters thick, form a unified and highly
transmissive aquifer. The soils are relatively fertile, suitable for growing a wide range of crops with
good yields, particularly if sufficient nitrogen and phosphate inputs are provided. About 74 percent of
the soils are of medium to moderately coarse texture, have good internal drainage and are well-suited to
irrigated agriculture. About 13 percent are coarse-textured, with low water-holding capacity, requiring
good on-farm water management and frequent irrigations. The remaining 13 percent are moderately fine-
textured, with poor internal drainage characteristics. The implementation of the SCARP program has
reduced soil salinity/sodicity problems in most fresh groundwater areas. However, the situation is
worsening in some SGW areas. From periodic soil profile tests conducted by WAPDA, the proportion
of non-saline, non-sodic soil profiles varies from as low as 40 percent in SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)
to 88 percent in Shahpur. (Annex 1, Table 4).
Water Resources
2.4    Surface Water Supplies.      The Indus River and its four major tributaries (Jhelum, Chenab,
Ravi and Sutlej) flow through the Punjab. Water from these rivers is diverted by a series of barrages into
9 large canal systems serving the project area. River flows are highly seasonal with almost 60 percent
of the total annual flow occurring between June and August. Yearly variations in surface water
diversions to the canals are reducing over time, mainly due to increasing control over the river system
by reservoirs, inter-river link canals and barrages. In the fresh groundwater areas of the project, the
average canal water supply at the watercourse head from 1988-1992 was 3.51 million acre feet (4,325
million m3) and accounted for 41 percent of total irrigation supplies. In saline groundwater areas, the
surface water supply averaged 0.86 million acre feet (1,063 million m3), equivalent to 69 Percent of total
irrigation supplies. Surface water supplies are also the main source of recharge to the groundwater which
is then reused by pumping through tubewells.
2.5    Groundwater Supplies.        A total of 5,054 STWs were installed in the project area, of which
4,233 were in the fresh groundwater areas and the remaining 821 in the saline areas. In FGW areas
about 90 percent of fresh groundwater STWs (3,860) are currently operational but only 15 percent are
in good condition, capable of pumping 80 percent or more of their original capacity (Annex 1, Table 9).
The present capacity of the STWs is estimated at 9,597 cusecs (272 m3 per second) supplying about 2.32
million acre feet (2,867 million m3) of irrigation water at the watercourse heads. Pumping groundwater
at the head of the watercourse improves overall distribution as well as application efficiency, including
that of canal water. In most watercourses the canal water does not reach towards the tail when the STW
is not operating. Therefore, tail farmers lose their share of canal water and they are left with the option
of using PTW water only. The use of groundwater without canal water leads to damaging of the soils.
In saline areas of SCARP II, about 426 have marginal quality water useable only after mixing with the
canal water. These tubewells pump water into the watercourses while the remaining tubewells having
water supply unsafe for irrigation use, discharge water into canals (119 STWs ) and drains. Total
pumpage in the saline area of SCARP II is estimated at 0.25 million acre-feet (308 million m3).
2.6           In addition, low capacity (typically 0.75 to 1 cusec) PTWs have been installed where fresh
or marginal groundwater can be obtained from shallow aquifer, usually to a depth of 30 meters. There
are about 44,000 PTWs in the fresh groundwater project areas pumping 3.01 million acre-feet (3,710
million m3). Their utilization rate of PTWs is extremely low compared with STWs --below 10 percent.
In addition, there are 1,780 PTWs in the saline zones of SCARPs II that have pockets of marginally fresh
groundwater. These PTWs pump about 0.13 million acre-feet (162 million m3). The supply of irrigation
water from different sources is given in Annex 1, Table 8 and summarized in Table 2.1 below.



- 13 -
2.7    Groundwater Levels and Trends.    Present average depths to water tables vary between
different SCARP areas. They range from 2.4 meters in Shahpur to 4.3 meters in SCARP IV in the pre-
monsoon period. After the monsoon they range from as high as 1.5 meters in Shahpur to as low as 4.2
meters in SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia). The trends of groundwater levels also vary among SCARP
areas. There have been increased waterlogging problems (water table between 0 and 1.5 m) in parts of
Shahpur, indicating a need for additional pumping. Conversely, water tables are falling slightly in
SCARPs 11, and are stable in SCARPs IV, and V (Shorkot-Kamalia) (Annex 1, Table 10). In saline
groundwater areas, groundwater levels are high, resulting in high evaporation and movements of salts
to the soils.
Table 2. 1: Irrigation Supplies to the Project area
Source of Water                            Fresh Groundwater Areas   Saline Groundwater Areas
Quantity     Proportion    Quantity       Proportion
million m'      Percent    million m'         %
Canals exti-maled n the Aert-- h-rad)      4,32 5            40        1,063             69
STWs a/                                    2,867             26         308              20
PTWs a/                                    3,710             34         162              11
Total                                    10,902           100       1,533             100
a-'    enisnmales of M-round.aer p-mpage .rc bated on tureos and
appro -imate U fwI-atioo facor  and capacrtr-t
2.8    Groundwater Quality.           Most of the STWs in the fresh groundwater areas (91 percent)
produce water of safe or marginal quality, with about 9 percent producing hazardous quality water.
Although the overall salinity of most of the pumped groundwater is low, the residual sodium carbonate
(RSC) is often high, which can result in binding of the soil structure and reduced water infiltration into
the root zone. However, as most of the STW water is pumped into watercourses and mixed with surface
water supplies, the build-up of RSC is reduced. WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization's records
show that there has been little overall change in water quality over the last 10 years but there has been
a decrease in the number of safe wells at the boundaries between the fresh and saline zones in SCARP
11. primarily due to movement of groundwater from  saline aquifer towards the fresh areas. Shallow
groundwater has not been monitored systematically, but its quality is usually better because surface
irrigation system is the main sources of recharge. However, in some areas PTWs water is higher in RSC
compared with STWs (Annex 1, Tables 11 and 12). Often PTW water is pumped into the field channels
without mixing with the surface water, therefore, negative effects of RSC build up rapidly.
B. Relevant Water Sector Institutions and Legislation
Water Sector Institutions
2.9            There are several institutions directly or indirectly involved in the water sector. At the
federal level the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) as an executive arn of Ministry of
Water and Power is entrusted with the responsibility for: development of water resources and supply of
irrigaiioni water; prevention and reclamation of waterlogged and saline lands and drainage; flood control;
generatioln, transmission and distribution of power; and land navigation. In respect of the water sector



- 14 -
projects, WAPDA acts as an agency of the Governmeit for implementation of the schemes, which upon
completion are transferred to Provincial Irrigation Departmenits. WAPDA is also responsible for O&M
of multi-purpose reservoirs and some inter-river Iink canals. O&M of the irrigation and drainage systems,
including public tubewells, and flood control is responsibility of the PID.  Farmers maintain the
watercourses and farn chaninels. Water charges are assessed by the PID. However, they are collected
by the Provincial Revenue Department. The PID retains institutional control over public sources of water
and public drainage facilities. The role of Punjab Agriculture Department (PAD, Directorate General On-
Farn  Water Management) in water delivery and disposal is Iimited to registering the Water Users
Association, techiical support and improvement of watercourses and on-farm drainage. The Agriculture
Department in the past also offered assistance in the installationi of PTWs by renting drilling machinery.
Provincial subsidies for installationi of PTWs were also routed through PAD. However, due to financial
constrainits, these are now disbursed only In PID implemented SCARP transition areas.
2.10           The Planninig and Developmenit (P&D) Board, Federal Ministry of Planliling, and Planiling
Commission prepare five-year and aninual developmenit plans with support from sectoral agencies. They
are also responsible for project planniniig, appraisal and approval for inclusionl in the development plans.
Existing Legislation and Regulations
2.1 1          The Pun jab Canal and Drainage Act of 1 873 with subsequent amendmnents25 provides the
maini legislative basis for irrigation and drainage services. Althoughi water is a nationial resource, the Act
entitles the Provincial Government to use and control all water, rivers, streams, lakes, and subsoil water
for irrigation drainage and navigationial purposes. Even thouigil the meaning of "canal" includes tubewells,
the law  says very little about the use or control of ulidergrounid waters.  The Water and Power
Development Authority Act, 1958 extends WAPDA's control over undergrotiuid water in any region in
a province. The control is, however, in the context of controllinig waterlogging and salinity, one of the
main objectives of creating WAPDA. The Punjab Soil Reclamation Act, 1952 is most explicit about the
control of groundwater even though its objective was also to accelerate reclamation and improvemenit of
waterlogged and saline lands.  The Act gives control of all groulidwater uses except domestic and
livestock to the Pun jab Soil Reclamationi Board (clause 26).26  It provides the basis for licensing the
installationi of tubewells and authorizes the Board to close down tubewells, either temporarily or
permanently, if they negatively effect the existing use of water. Under the Act, the Board issued elaborate
rules (West Pakistan Land Water Development Board, Control over Undergrounid Waters, Rules, 1965)
for licensing the tubewell, inspection of licenses and penalties for using tubewells without a license. The
institutional structure of SCARPs and staffing was done exercising the powers under this Act. The Board
weint throughi several organizationlal structures, and in 1973, with the transfer of SCARPs to provinces,
PID  was appointed as its administrator for executing O&M  of the project, while, planning and
development fuLictionis were transferr-ed to the Punjab Planniniig and Development Board.
2.12           In the past. efforts of the Board and other agencies were focused prinarily on lowering
the water tables, and tubewells were generally encouraged for drainage as well as ir-igationi purposes.
There is no evidence of restricting tubewell developmenits throughi licensing in any area In the past.
Hlowever, the legislative basis exists for regulating groundwater use. Its implemenitation would be possible
only after defininig regulatling procedLires. creating an institutionial set-up and developing implementation
arrangemenlts.
'5   Amended by Punjab Amendment Act 1952, Extension Act 1964. West Pakistan Amendment 1965, 1968. ordinance 1970, and Punjab
Amendment Ordinance 1970, 1971 and 1975.
-'  The Punjab Soil reclamation Act, 1952 was Amended by West Pakistan Amendment Ordimance 1964. by wlich Soil Reclamation
Board was substituted by Land and Water Developinent Board.



- 15 -
C. Farm Size, Agricultural Production, and Marketing
Farm Size and Tenure.
2.13           The average farm size witlhin the project area ranges from about 3.8 ha in Lalhore Division
to 5. i ha in Sargodlha Division, withi an overall average of 4.4 ia. The farm  size distribution indicates
that about 69 percent of farms are less thani 5 hia, wiliie only 8 percent are larger than 10 ha (Annex 1,
Table 13). Overall, about 80 percent of farms (less thani 6 ha in size) have hialf ot the land, wiliie 20
percent farms (thiose greater thlan 6 lha) has the other half. Land lholdings are usually fragmented, witlh
each farimier cultivating an average of three plots located in different places. The average houselhold size
is about 7 persons.
2.14           About 77 percent of the farmiers cultivate their owIn land, and about 30 percent of these
farmers also rent some land. About 23 percent of farmers are pure tenants, usually renting from  larger
farmers or landlords on a shiare-cropping or cashi-rentinig basis.
Agricultural Production
2. 15   Cropping Patterns and Intensities.   There are three major cropping patterns in the pro'ject area.
The cottonl-whieat system  is prevalenit in southern SCARPs Ill Rangpur Unit; the rice-whieat system  in
SCARP IV and the northierin part of SCARP IL. and the sugarcane-wheat system in SCARPs V and most
of SCARP 11 and Slialipur. In the rtibi (winlter) season, whieat is the most important crop in each system,
typically taking up more than 50 percent of cca. Othier important wlinter crops include fodder (berseem)
and small areas of pulses. In the kharif(summer) season, cottoIn is grown on 35 percent of cca in cotton-
wheat system; paddy takes more than 50 percent of cca in rice-wheat system (about 80 percent in Basmati
and 20 percent in hiigih-yielding IRRI varieties); and sugarcane over 15 percent in sugarcane-wheat area.
Othier importanit crops grown in the khurif season include fodder (maize and sorghum), other grains
(maize, sorghlum  and millet), and some pulses and oilseeds. Orchards hlave been increasing in recent
years, the most importanit being citrus, guava and mango, with cropped areas ranging from 3 to 1 3 percent
of cca. Overall croppling intenisities hiave been rising and currently range from  120 to 145 percent in
different SCARPs. (Aniex 1, Table 14).
2.16   Crop Yields.  Wheat yields range from about 1.6 to 2.0 toins per ha, and have been increasing
at a rate of over 2 percent a year since 1980. Average maize yields range from 1 .3 to 1 .5 tons per h1a,
withi yields increasinlg by about I percent a year. Paddy yields range from about 1 .1 to 1 .5 tons per ha
and, ulilike othier grain crops, have remained more or less static in recent years. In the sugarcane-wheat
areas, average sugarcane yields are about 40 tons per ha. Cotton yields have averaged 1 .3 to 1 .8 tons per
ha in the cotton-wheat areas. Cotton yields have doubled since 1980. However, they are declining over
tihe last three years due to wide-spread viruses. Fodder yields are rarely recorded, but estimated average
berseenii yields are in the order of 25-30 toils per ha (fresh weight), about double the yield of kharif fodder
crops sucih as maize, sorghum and millet. (Aniex 1, Table 14)
2. 7   Water Input. Water supply is one of the major constrailits to agriculture production in the
project area. The crop water requirements are much higher than the effective rainfall (Annex I Table 15).
On an afilual basis, water supplies from  canals and groundwater meet only 90 percent of irrigation
rcqui4remnents (Anniex 1. Table 16).  lowever, water shortages are very acute in peak demand periods.
vlMarchl/April and( Scptemberi/October.
2. 1 8   Agricultural Inputs and Services.    Inputs, including fertilizer and pesticides, are mostly
provided throughi the private sector, with numerous small dealers supplying these items in the market



- 16 -
towns. HIowever, fertilizer imports are normally routed througlh the Punjab Agricultural Development and
Supply Corporation to a network of dealers. In the past, Government policy was to subsidize fertilizers,
pesticides and inputs; however, input supply has now been essentially privatized and subsidies eliminated,
particularly on nitiogenious fertilizers and pesticides. Fertilizer use is genierally low. Pesticide use is
signilficanit, mainilv because 60 to 80 percenlt of the cottoni crop is sprayed.
2.19           Use of improved seed has been held back by problems of availability, accessibility, and
quality. Most farimers keep their owi seed or buy inferior quality seed from  local dealers. The Punjab
Seed Corporation is the main source of improved seed for cotton, wheat and rice. Some private suppliers
have also recently started marketing seeds for cotton, maize and some minor crops. Seed produced by
the Seed Corporation is procured by the Agricultural Development and Supply Corporation and supplied
to the farmers through their dealers.
2.20           Agricultural extension services in the project areas have been strengthened under the
Agricultural Fxteisioni and Adaptive Researcih Project. Phase 11 (AEAR-11, Cr. 1 762-PAK), whichi
introduced thc traininig and visit system all over Punjab in 1987. At the district level, a Deputy Director
Agriculture is in chiarge of extensioni services, and is supported by an Assistant Director of Agriculture
at the fehsil level and Field Assistants, averaging about one per 1,100 farm household.
Marketing
2.2 1          In Pakistan, both Government and the private sector are engaged in procurement and
marketing of farn output. Government procurement through designated agencies covers all major crops
suchi as wheat, cotton, rice, gram, potatoes, onions, oilseeds and sugarcane at a guaranteed minimum price
or support price. Support prices for these products are fixed through a consultative process taking into
accounlt the cost of production, domestic demanid, supply and stock position, domestic and interinationial
prices, possible impact on the cost of living, and intersectoral considerationis. The support prices program
is designed to combat price falls ihmediately following harvest, which could force farmers with limited
storage to sell at depressed prices. The procurement agencies must purchase all quantities offered to them
if the iiarket price falls below the support price. Fundinig these purchases is often problematic.  The
program.i, throughi risk transfer, provides incentives to farmers at substantial cost to Government, which
sometlimes leads to a situation where a support price is set but no transactions take place because no
budget is provided.  Parastatals are not efficient in the handling of crops.  They also collude witl
processors or traders to share the gains from monopolistic market positions.
2.22           Farmers sell surplus production to iiidividual buyers, Government or semi-government
procuremenit agencies and agro-processing plants, or at village markets where transactions are carried out
by brokers, traders. amid commission agents. Further up the marketing chain is a wide network of iehsil
level markets through whiclh agricultural commodities from the village markets are channeled by brokers,
wholesalers amid retailers to the larger urban centers for sale to consumers and for export. The project area
has several major marketing centers at district and tehsil levels.  Present marketing and processing
facilities are adequate to handle the project's estimated outputs.
2.23           Currently, about 60 percent of Pakistan's wheat production is consumed on the farm or
sold in the open market and the rest is marketed in the public sector. Public sector procurement is carried
out bv the Provincial Food Departments and the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation.
About half of Pakistan's total paddy production is consumed on the farm, while most of the marketable
surplus is bougIlt by the state-ownied Rice Export Corporation and is exported. Cotton and sugarcanie are
sold, either directly or through an intermediary, to ginneries and sugar mills. Ginned cotton is conisumned
domestically as well as exported by the state-ownied Cotton Export Corporatiomi and private firms. In areas



- 17 -
wilere there are no sugar mills, sugarcanie is usually processed into gur (raw sugar) for local consumption.
2.24           Altlhoughi direct intervenition by the Government in agricultural markets has diminished,
major interventions still remaini --subsidized imports of wheat; duty and periodic restrictions on cotton
exports, aiid protection of sugarcanie. Major indirect interventionis arise from the protection of domestic
industry, whiicih penalizes agriculture througlh the impact on sectoral relative prices. These issues were
analyzed in the recent agriculture sector strategy and it is intenided that they would be addressed through
a sector operation focussing mainly on structural and policy reforms in the agriculture sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1            The overall project objectives are to increase the scope and productivity of Punjab's
irrigationi and drainage subsector and increase farners' incomes. Its specific objectives are to: (a) redefine
Governimienit's role in groundwater developmenlt and provide assistance to facilitate chanige; (b) develop
a monitoring program and regulatory framework to ensure sustainable use of the grouLidwater resources;
(c) develop sustainable farmers' organizationis (FOs) which can efficiently operate and maintain
groulidwater irrigation, improve surface irrigation and establish a base for participation in the management
of the canal systems; (d) increase beneficiaries' incomiies and alleviate poverty; (e) rationalize public
expenditure on O&M  of the irrigation and drainage systems as well as increase the recovery of public
expeniditures on irrigation infrastructure; and (f) avoid environimenital hlazard of saline water intrusion into
fresh grounidwater aquifers.
B. Project Description
3 .2           T he proposed project covering a large part of fresh grounidwater SCARP areas in Punjab,
would be implemiienited over a period of five years. The project is designed to meet the above objectives.
The major project components are: (a) disinvestmenit of SCARP tubewells; (b) development of a
grounddwater mon itorinlg and regulatory framework; (c) improvement of irrigation conveyanice facilities;
(d) preventioni of saline groundwater intrusion in fresh aquifers; (e) monitoring and evaluation of the
project imipact: and (f) project management, and technical assistance and training.
3.3            The proiect would be a major step towards self-sustainability of the irrigation and drainage
systems in Pun jab by developing sustainable FOs and transferring to them responsibility for O&M  of
STWs, whichi requires over forty percent of provincial current irrigation expenditure. At the same time,
distributioll of irrigation water from tubewells would be transferred from provincial irrigation agency to
the private sector. While decentralization of management and water markets in surface irrigation requires
experimentation throughi pilot projects, much experience exists on the involvement of the private sector
in groulidwater development. Tubewell water sales are common and development of FOs around tubewell
installationis is easier. Well-developed FOs and a framework for groundwater regulation would help in
the decenitralizationi of surface irrigation system  at canal command level, which would be addressed
throughi a series of pilot projects under sector loans.
Tubewells Disinvestment (Base Cost USS27.4 million)
3.4    Transfer of SCARP Tubewells (Base Cost US$12.5 million).              All  public   SCARP
tubewells presently operational in the fresh groundwater areas of the project would be transferred to thle



- 18 -
private sector. The project would provide assistance in the development of FOs and transfer of STWs to
them. Watercourse level FOs with minimum  membership of 51 percent of the water users on the
watercourse would be registered prior to formation of CTW FOs. CTW FOs would consist of a minimum
of 30 percent of the water users on the watercourse.
3.5           It is estimated that there are about 4.233 SCARP tubewells with an actual pumping
capacity of about 9,597 cusecs (Aninex I, Tables 6 and 9). Of these about 642 tubewells are in good
conditioni with effective capacity (ECAP) more than 80 percent (called Class A tubewells), about 1,077
are in medium condition (ECAP 80-50 percent, Class B) and about 1,788 in bad condition (ECAP less
thani 50%, Class C). About 353 STWs are not operational, and no data are available for about 373 STWs.
3.6           The transfer program is designed not to exceed the present pumping capacity of STWs,
and allowing flexibility of choices to the FOs. Farmers in the project area would be persuaded through
a social mobilization program  for forming FOs to take over the STWs and run those as community
tubewells (CTWs). FOs would chose the transfer and managemenit method suitable for their area. The
following are the likely options: (i) jointly take over STW as such and run as CTW (transfer mode); (ii)
jointly take over the STW  with modificalion and run as CTW; (iii) install new CTWs serving all or part
of the farmers served by STW; and (iv) replace lost pumpage with existing or new PTWs. The project
would provide assistance for CTWs only. The project would support one to two CTWs per watercourse
with a discharge capacity of one to two cusecs (average 1.5 cusecs), each pumping into the communal
watercourse (preferably at the head) with a maximum of four CTWs per STW (only for STWs serving
more than one watercourse). In case of transfer mode only one CTW would be needed as it is likely to
have sufficient capacity to serve all farmers on the watercourse.
3.7           Under the transfer mode, FOs would carry out minor repairs to starters, switches, motors,
pumpset couplings and make a security deposit for electrical connection. Under the modified mode, they
would replace the turbine pump with a centrifugal pump of lower capacity (average 1.5 cusecs) and the
electrical motor with a diesel enginie. The new CTWs are likely to be below 2 cusecs capacity with
ceentrifugal pumps operated by diesel engines.
3.8           It is estinated that (and assumed for costing and financing) all STWs in the project area
would be replaced by about 6,360 CTWs under the three transfer modes (Annex 2 Table 1). This
averages to 1.5 CTW per STW or about 1.2 CTW per watercourse or 60 percent of the watercourses
participating in the program with two CTWs each. It is estimated that about 150 STWs" in good
conditioni (Class A) would be taken over by FOs in the transfer mode. Some 1,643 STWs would be
modified and converted to CTWs. These would inciude all those working moderately well, and some of
those in poor condition. About 4,567 new CTWs would be installed. The number of tubewells under
different categories are indicative and may change during the course of project implementation. The
project would provide one tine finanicial assistance of Rs. 20,000 for modified and Rs. 30,000 for new
CTWs. This represents about 45 percenlt of the cost for new CTW and about 50 percent for modified
CTWs (Aninex 2, Table 3). The incentive structure would encourage the transfer and modified modes.
FOs would provide unskilled labor and bear remaining costs of CTWs. They would be responsible for
O&M of CTWs and deposit an amount equivalent of one seasons's (six months) O&M  in their Bank
AccouLit to be eligible for finanicial assistance.
3.9           In addition to the SCARP tubewells there are about 1,535 irrigation tubewells, in Punjab
owned by the Goverinment. Most of these tubewells are not operational. However, a significant amount
of funds are allocated in the recurrent budget to meet their fixed costs. Assurance were obtained from
Including 50 STWs in SCARP Shahpur whicih are shallow and fitted with centrifugal pumps.



- 19 -
GOPunjab that Government owned irrigation tubewells would be formally closed by June 30, 1998. and
GOPunjab would. (a) eliminate the provincial program for subsidizing individually owned private
tubewells in areas supplied by canal waler by September 30, 1996; and (b) initiate a study for the
preparation of a plan to phase out subsidies to the individually-owned private tubewells in areas not
supplied by canal water and where private tubewells are the sole source of irrigation water, and
implement such plan by December 31, 1997.
3.10   Community Development and Support (Base Cost US$6.7 million).          To achieve project
objectives, a basic requirement would be effective communllity participation in all phases of the
developmenit process. An essential activity is to set up, train and technilcally support FOs so that they are
able to effectively manage and sustaini the operation of CTWs. The FOs would be used as nuclei bodies
for other project activities such as improvement of irrigation and drainage systems. For developing
effective FOs, the project would support a social mobilization program. The PMU would have overall
responsibility for social mobilizationi working through a communily development and support group
(CDSG) recruited as consultancy services. The team would consist of core staff at the central level for
training, managing and coordinating the community participation program, social coordinators (SCs) in
the project area, and social organizers (SOs) working with the help of local NGOs and village level
activists. In order to recruit SOs who reside in the project areas and maintain relationship with farmers,
they would be recruited from local-level NGOs. The terms of reference for social mobilization team are
given in Annex 3.
3.11          PMU would also utilize the services of OFWM staff especially where they are involved
in the inproveinenit of watercourses. The OFWM teams would privatize 1,500 STWs, including 500
STWs on already improved watercourses, 500 on the watercourses improved under the project and 500
on ullimproved watercourses. The OFWM teams would be modified to include social organizers, who
would be trained by the CDSG.
3.12          A detailed community development plan is given in Annex 4.  The community
mobilizationi efforts would be carried out in three successive waves. First, a baseline survey of the STW
area would be carried out hy surveyors for collecting pertinent information about the STW and
watercourse comimianid. This inforimiationi would cover physical features, agricultural aspects, as well as
socio-economic factors.  Based on this information, SOs would prepare a suitable plan and initiate
dialogue with the farmers for replacing STW pumpage. The SOs would make an initial visit followed
by several return visits. The After-care Social Organizers (ASOs) would also participate in some of the
returni visits. Each SO would be visiting up to four STWs within the same geographical area at a given
time. To take advantage of the demonstrative effect, the visit schedule would be a rolling process,
whereby the SO would advance to the next closest STW. If an FO is formed for converting an STW to
CTW, the SO would arrange visits of technical staff to assist FO in deciding type of tubewell, size,
location and other technical issues. When a CTW is established by an FO, follow-up and training would
be carried out by SOs supported by the ASOs. They would assist FOs in electing/appointing the necessary
officers and assign specific responsibilities to FO members, open bank accounts, and provide training in
book-keeping. preparing and implementing water distribution and maintenanlce schedules, amid dispute
resolutioii technilques. The ASOs would make regular visits to provide support in the post-transition
period until the FO begins to function satisfactorily. ASOs would also monitor the performance of the
FOs. The work of SOs would be supervised by Social Coordinators (SCs). The SCs would also be
supported by a technical team (Technical Coordinator, Irrigation Engineer and Agricultural Economist)
and a survey team (Irrigation Engineer, Agricultural Economist and two surveyors). The CDSG would
have its main office in Lahore and four field offices (Chart 2).
3.13          Under the community development program, the project would provide support for about



- 20 -
445 staff years for social mobilization field staff. Of these, about 225 staff years would be for social
organizers (primary and after-care), 20 staff years of Social Coordinators and remaining for technical staff,
survey teams and support staff. The core team (125 staff months) at the Lahore office would consist of
a Team Leader supported by a Deputy Team Leader, a Social Mobilization Specialist (15 staff months)
and a Training Specialist (5 staff months). Strong back-up support would be provided for the SOs through
a training program (one month) and expert advice from the core team. The Training Specialist would help
to develop trainin1g and promotional material, an appropriate book-keeping system, and an implementation
hanidbook. The project would also support one week training of FOs and farmlers' leaders.
3.14   Redeployment of STWs Staff (Base Cost US$8.2 million).  The staff presently employed for
O&M of STWs would have to be redeployed as the transfer of public tubewells proceeds. Presently about
7,100 Governmelt employees are employed for the O&M of these tubewells (Annlex 2, Table 4). Of
these, about 1,000 (14 percent) who have more thani 25 years of service and are eligible for full pension
at retirement, are likely to take retirement during restructuring of PID. The project would support a
training program for about 3,100 staff (44 percent). After taking the training they can be redeployed in
other branchies of the Government or find employment in the private sector. About 3,000 staff would need
to be offered attractive incentives if they are to voluntarily leave PlD's service. IDA would provide funds
for the training program.  However, the Government would finance from  its own resources
retirement/severanice benefits for the employees leaving the Government service. The Government would
make use of skilled humani resources development specialists for the implementationi of the staff re-
deploymenit program  and for counselling and providing assistance and advice to the STWs staff.
Assurance were obtained that GOPunjab wouldJfinalize the training program and severance packages by
Decemnber 31, 1996 in consultation with the STWs staff  The GOPunjab would make provisions in its
operating b7udget/for retirement/severance benefits (as appropriate) for the staff whose employment would
cease cduring the following fiscal year and ensure that such benefits are made available to the eligible
stafjf: The statf receiving severance benefits would not be re-hired within a period of seven years from the
dlate theY cease to be emnployed by the Governnment.
Development of Groundwater Regulatory Framework (Base Cost US$2.8 million)
3.15         In Punljab, groundwater extractions have been increasinig consistenltly, as a result the falling
water tables in some fresh groundwater areas is a matter of considerable concerin. Over exploitation
threatenis the quality of the resource --lower level aquifers are generally more saline, and significant
differences between fresh and saline areas induce intrusion of saline water. As the rate of groundwater
use is approaching its potential availability, determination of groundwater rights (at individual and
comm1iulnity level) and regulation of its use are essential for sustainable and equitable use of this common
resoLirce.  The project would support the development as well as implementationi of a regulatory
framework. It would strengthen capacity for intensive monitoring in critical areas, develop capacity for
determining safe yields of aquifers and allocation of groundwater rights, as well as develop and support
for the institutionial setip for implementing groundwater regulations in critical areas. Detailed program
for the development and implementationi of regulatory framework is provided il Annex 5.
3.16          Presently, the SCARPs Monitorinig Organization (SMO) of WAPDA  monitors the
grounidwater aquifers, especially in the SCARP areas. SMO's capacity for country wide monitoring would
be strengthenied under the proposed National Drainage Program. The proposed project would strengthen
Pull jab's capacity for intensive monitorinig of the areas identified as critical for groundwater control on
the basis of SMOs general monitoring results. In addition to the groundwater monitoring database,
simulation  models would be employed in determining the safe yield of aquifers and its allocation by
distributary, watercourse and individual level. Detailed rules for control and licensing, as well as the
methodology and institutional setup would be developed. The development work would be completed in



- 21 -
first three years of the project, while the institutional setup for enforcemenit of regulation in critical areas
would be put in place during the remaining two years. As part of developing effective groundwater
regulation strategy, a few pilots would be implemented before refining the regulation procedures. The
objectives of the pilots would be to test and evolve most effective methods for groundwater managemenit,
assessment of the extent of regulation required, effectiveness of allocation and distribution of grounldwater
rights, and roles of the regulating and monitoring agencies, surface water and drainage agencies, the
farmers and their organizationis, local governmeits and NGOs in implementationi of the grounidwater
regulations. For development of a regulatory framework, the project would provide support for about 280
staff monithis of' internationally and nationially recruited specialists.  In addition assistance uould be
provided for support staff and installatioii of moniitoriig equipmenit. and computers.  Funding is also
ilided for about 250 staff monithis along withi support staff for the institutional setup to be established
for entorcing the regulationis. The project would also support training in groundwater modelinig and
regulation. and visits to othier countries whiere such measures have been implemented.
Improvement of Irrigation Facilities in Fresh Groundwater Areas (Base Cost US$33.6 million)
3.17    Watercourse Renovations (Base Cost US$30.5 million).  Watercourses generally command
between 75 to 200 ha anid serve about 25 to 70 farmers.  The communal watercourse (sarktiri khal)
represent about 20 percent of W/C lengthi with the remaininig 80 percent being farm  branchies anid field
ditches. With closure ot' STWs the water flow rate in W/Cs as well as pattern of flows would change
sign ificantly"v. Depending upon the location of CTW, the flow would be reduced to hialf in miost W/Cs.
Therelore, the W/Cs svould have to be remodelled to convey the new water flows efficiently and equitably.
3. 18           The communal W/C whicih conveys a large portion of the irrigation water would be
realigined and rebuilt with clean compacted soil to improve coniveyance of the canal as well as CTW  water.
Precast outlets (pIwcc  nlaC''cus) would be installed to reduce channel deterioration and water loss, arid to
improve water control. The critical sections of communal W/C prone to speedy deterioration would be
lhied with bricks or three-piece precast concrete slabs.29  Normally, head reaches of W/Cs. havilng
maximum  flows aiid hydraulic head wvould be Ihied. However, other reaches having excessive water
losses because of elevation, soil conditioiis. chronic sedimentation problems, and higih traffic areas around
villages and alonig the roads would also be eligible for pucca lining. The Iining would not exceed 15
percent of the total length of communal W/CI  lowever, greater flexibility would be allowed to FOs in
selecting the sections for Iining. Culverts would be installed at major crossings, and a limited nuimber of
check/drop strictures, animiial wallos/buffalo baths and laundry sites would be provided as required.
3.19            The project would only support renovation of W/Cs on which CTWs are installed. There
are about 5,266 W/Cs in the project area, however, the project would support renovation of about 1,500
W/Cs in the FGjW  areas. W/C renovationi would be undertaken after FO have successfully operated the
CTW  for at least one year. FOs would provide unskilled and skilled labor (masons) costs. They would
contribute at least 30 percent of the material costs up-froiit and 45 percenit of the material cost would be
payable in six histalniiients over a three year period (Annex 2 Table 5). FOs could use the income from
sale of CTW  water to finaiice cash contributions. The SOs would provide assistance in deterniining
appropriate sales price for CTW  water in order to fund cash contributions; and training in collection,
keep ing separate records and operation of bank accounts.
The STNs generalls pump three time the discharge from canals in the W/Cs. With the closure of STW and without CTW at the head
ot the WIC the discharge will be reduced to one third in most cases, furthermore, the pattern of flows would differ depending upon
the location as well as number of CTWs on a watercourse.
'    The liing will be a rectangular double-brick masonry wall (23 cm) and a brick masonry bed (7 cm) plastered inside and on top of
the wall. Three-piece precast slabs. costing about the same, could be a substitute where good quality bricks are difficult to hioid.



- 22 -
3.20          The annual program for W/Cs renovations would be prepared at the beginning of the each
fiscal year. W/Cs would have to meet two specific criteria to be considered for imuprovemnents. First, they
must have had a registered W/C level association in the previous fiscal year, and second, they must score
highest according to the criteria outlined in Table 3. I.  The criteria assigns highi priority to the
watercoLirses with large nuinber of small farmiers. The rank of each watercourse would be determinied
based on numnber of beneficiaries (500 points), comimiand area (200 points) and up-front contributioni
towards the cost ot materials. The score between the points given in the table would be determinied usiig
linear interpolationi. The W/Cs scoring less thanl 350 points out of 1.000 would not be considered for
renovatioll.
Table 3.1: Selection Criteria for Watercourse Renovations
Up-front
Area of                      Contribution
Number of                       Watercourse                     percent of
Beneficiaries a/  Points        in hectares        Points    Material Costs   Points
More than 75        500          More than 300        200          100             300
35       300                     150       100           30               0
20       200                     100        50
Less than 10           0         Less than  50          0
a/ Registered Users of Watercourse level F.
3.21   The OFWM  Directorate would assigni 20 field teams and 4 area teams to improve these
watel-coLirses. T he composition of the field teams is giveni in Ann1ex 2, Table 6. TIhe field team staff has
been reduced from the present level employed for W/C improvemenit uLider the Third On-farm Water
Managemiienit project. However, the team would be supplemented with a Commniiiuity Development Officer
to enhlanice its social mobilizationl capacity.  TIhese teams would also be trained by the in social
mobilizationi by the Core Team of the CDSG.
3.22   Rehabilitation of Canal Structures (Base Cost US$3.1 million).    With the closure of STWs,
a large numilber of farmers in the project area would rely on canal water alone until the CTWs become
operational. To ensure a reliable supply of canal water during this period, as well as conjunctive use of
groundwater after CTWs become operational, the project would provide assistance to remove major
physical obstructions in the delivery of canal water. This would include repair of distributary gates,
rehabilitationi of diversion structures, desilting and improving critical sections of the canial and other
adjustments to enable delivery of authorized disclharge. Before closing STWs in ain area, a survey would
be caried out and a plaii 'Aould be prepared for rehabilitation of the distribution system. These works
would not cover complete remodelling of the distributaries and should cost below Rs 200 per acre (fiscal
near 1995). The works would be identified and proposed by Social Mobilization Field Teams and the PID
durinig tile project implemenitation. The canal lining consultants would review and prepare detailed designs
for the rehabilitation works in consultations with the FOs and Social Mobilization Field Teams.
Prevention of Saline Groundwater Intrusion (Base Cost US$24.7 million)
3.23          Even in tile FGW SCARP areas the groundwater quality varies over a wide range witlh
fresh and saline areas interminigled at some locations. SCARP 11 have a large saline zone where the water



- 23 -
table is higher than the adjoining fresh groundwater areas and saliie intrusions are occurring. The project
would support measures to control spreading of the saline groundwater aquifer iito fresh areas. This
would be achieved by rehabilitating and improving the drainage facilities in the saline areas bordering the
freshwater aquifers. as well as by reducing drainage requirements through preventive measures and by
improving delivery efficiencies of canals and watercourses.
3.24   Improvement of Drainage Facilities (Base Cost US$0.2 million).   In SCARP 11, about 35
saline tubewells (with a pumping capacity of 2 cusecs). would be installed to replace the pumpage of
existing drainage tubewells whichi have either deteriorated to a very low capacity or have been abandoned.
These drainage wells would be installed in the vicinity of Shah Jiwana and Ara units of SCARP-II, and
effluent would be pumped into existing surface drains. Bordering Shall Jiwana unit, the replacement
tubewells would be provided along Faqarian-Sillanlwali drain (8 tubewells) and Sobagha drain (12
tubewells); and in Ara unit along lower Raniwah drain (15 tubewells). This capacity, together with
proposed preventive measures, would be sufficient to balance recharge and extractions and maintain the
grounidwater tables at an appropriate level in the saline areas bordering with FGW, and help prevent their
spread.
3.25           While the O&M of all STWs has generally been plagued by problems arising from poor
management and budgetary shortfalls, the salile STWs are the worst hit, primarily because, unlike the
fresh groundwater STWs. farmers are not interested in their O&M. Most of the saline tubewells are either
permaniently closed or in highily deteriorated conditioni. To avoid a similar fate of the saline STWs
proposed to be rehabilitated or replaced in the SCARP 11 area, the O&M of these saline STWs would be
contracted out to the private sector under "performance contracts". In addition efforts would be made
throughi tihe social mobilization teams to involve farmers in watch and ward, monitoring of hours of
operation and general O&M of these tubewells.
3.26   Canal Improvements (Base Cost US$9.2 million).  In addition to rehabilitation of drainage
facilities, water conservation measures (by improving the delivery efficiency of canals and watercourses)
would be used for controlling the groundwater tables and reducing the drainage requirements in saliie
areas at the interface with the fresh groundwater areas. About 26 channels in SCARP 11 with capacity
upto about 100 cusecs (2.8 m3/sec) capacity would be provided with improved water control structures
as well as lining where found appropriate30 (Annex 2. Table 7). All of the chaniels selected il SCARP
11 area are supplied by Lower Jehlum Canal. The total length of the liied sections would be about 180
kim. Several of these chanlnels cross a depression running parallel to the branch canal therefore their
middle section is significanitly highier than the ground level. Breaches often occur at these sections
crossing the depression resulting in significant loss in water and crop failures in the tail. Lining these
reaches would result in water savings as well as improved distribution of water towards the tail.
3.27           The liied section would be designed to carry the actual discharge, and adequate freeboard
would be provided for safe operation. Moghas would be remodelled, canal structures would be improved,
and control structures would be provided to meet water management requirements. The lining would
conisist of concrete placed on compacted subgrade. Trapezoidal sections with side slope of 1:1 for up to
0.85 cumecs and 1.5:1 for higher discharge with non-silting velocities would be used. Parabolic sections
would be considered for small size sections (less than 0.5 cumecs).
3.28           PID would consult the farmers benefiting from these improvement at the start of the
project. The channels on which farmers agree to pay at least 5 percent of the capital costs of works up-
front, and 50 percent of the capital cost over a period of 8 years would be considered for improvements.
'" Seepage tests would be carried out before finalizing the canal lining designs.



- 24 -
IPreference wouild be given to those channels where farmiers would make higher up-fronit contributions.
3.29           These improvemiients wvould reduce thc losses significanitly and, as the area is uliderlain
by SGA'. would coniserve valuable sulface water. Improvemiient in ~Nater conitrol and remaodellinig of
tnuoghav would reCSlt in an overall increase in water use efficiency and equitable water delivery to
watercourses, especially towards the tail-end reaches of the canals.
33(0   Watercourse Improvements (Base Cost US$15.3 million).   About 100 watercourses in the
saline pockets and 400 in saline areas adjoininig the fresh groundwater aquifers would be inproved under
a voluntary and participatory program (preference would be give to saline pockets). Specifications and
the selcction criteria for W/C improvements would be similar to the one's in fresh grounldwater areas
-xcept lip to 30 percenit of the length of comImIllulial W/C woruld be provide(d with liniing. Five field tcamiis
would be assigned to tills com1ponelt.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Base Cost US$2.6 million)
3.3 1          Physical and finanicial monitorinig of project progress would be the responsibility of Project
Managemilenit Unit (PMU). Data on key project indicators would be collected and analyzed regularly to
assess progress, exercise control and identify possible problems. The key indicators would include project
planning, programming and budgeting, performanice of the consultanits and contractors, cost recovery from
Lisers, effectiveness of operations, delivery of water and drainage services, water-logginig and salinity.
heneficiary participation and activities of the FOs.
3.3    Project Impact Evaluation.  The pro'ect would also include a programll tor monitoring and
evxaluation of project imipact. Either consultanlts or an indepenidenit organizationi would be engaged to carry
out project impact studies. Limited input from expatriate specialists would also be provided. [he project
imipact evaluationi studies would foCus on1: (i) agricultural growth and crop diversification: (ii) impact on
incomiie and employmeit, and secondary effects on regional econoimy; (iii) impact on groundwater aquifers
anid water quality: (iv) imipact on water use and equity in distribution: and (v) performance of FOs.
Baseline surveys would be completed withinl one year of the start of the project.  During project
implemilenitation, baseline data would be compared to oil-goinig data collected in terms of the development
indicators, to monitor and evaluate the progress made towards achieving project objectives. Draft terms
of referenice for the impact evaluationi studies are giveni in Ann1ex 6.
Project Management (Base Cost US$1.7 million)
).33           The Project Managemenit Unit (PMU). established  in the Punjab  Planninig and
Developimienit Board would maniage and coordinate overall project implemenitationi. and directly implemilenit
some of the project components. The PMU would be composed of a full time Project Director (PD), two
ex-officio Members (one each from  the Irrigation Department aiid the Directorate General of Water
Managenment), and three Directors as well as support staff. The PMU would be supported by consultants
for: (i) social mobilization/organization, (ii) management and engineering consultants; (iii) development
of groulidwater regulatory framework: (iii) M&E: and (iv) project impact evaluation. To assist PMU
ulidertake its implemilenitationi responisibilities, the project would provide the cost of office buildings,
firillitire, office and field equipment, computers. and vehicles (Anniex 2. Table 7). The project would also
provide fuLids for an initial project lauLIcIh workshop, followed by two procuremilenlt guidelinles workshops.
mid-term  review and services for detailed third-party supervision on behalf of the Government. The
Planning and Developmenit Board would hire, indepenidenitly of the PMU, the services of two or more
specialists to carry out detailed supervision of the project oii belialf of the GOPunjab fromii time to time
(aboLit twice a year) and submit full supervision reports. The PMU would be responsible tor qualitN



- 25 -
control of all civil works carried out under the project. Assurances were obtained fron GOPunljab thal
proper specifications and design criteria would be observed for all civil works constructed under ihe
project and measures would be taken to control quality of construction acceptable to IDA.
Technical Assistance and Training (USS2.4 million).
3.34          Technical Assistance and traininig is an integral part of the project. Each component
includes required TA and traininig. In addition, the project would provide for national and interinationial
study tours. TA and traininig in beneficiary participation, community development and strengthleniiig,
project plaiinililg and managemenit; and moderin constructioni and contract adm in istrationi techiniques. The
project would provide for technilcal assistance in the following areas:
(i)      Coomminunity Development/Social Organizationi and supporting technilcal services,
(ii)      preparation of groundwater regulatory framework;
(iii)     Project Managemenlt Support;
(iv)      Enginieerinig services for surveys, design, and construction supervision of civil works.
includinig role of the Enginieer in contract management;
(v)       Impact evaluation studies; and
(vi)      Services for detailed supervision of the project on behalf of the Government.
3.35          Thlis component would support additional TA  needed in developiiig community
mobilizationi metihodology, review of design criteria and specifications for the civil works, preparation of
bidding documents, short-term training including overseas training for the project staff and preparation
of a follow up project for privatiziig remaining public tubewells in the province. The TA would also
support pilot projects to enhance agricultural productivity by improving water use efficiency at the farn
level. water maniagemlienit. farmers training, farmers participation in drainage, and developing methods of
construction at the canal level and contractinig arrangements with full participation by the farmers.
Assurances wvere obtainedfrom GOPunjab that PMU wouldfurnish proposalsfor staff training under ihe
project to IDA fbr its prior review and approval.  In addition the PMU would carry out a study on
feasibility of FOs raising resources throughi public borrowing. The purpose would be for a selected
nuinber of FOs to augment their internal cash generation with public borrowing in order to finanice a
greater portion of future investment with non-governmental funds. The PMU would prepare the TOR for
this study in consultationi with IDA. The study would be completed by March 31, 1999. The PMU would
also carry out a study for the preparation of a plan to phase out subsidies to the individually-owned private
tubewells in areas not supplied by canal water and where private tubewells are the sole source of irrigation
water (para 3.9).
3.36          Assurances were obtained from he Government that consultants would be recruited
following Bank guidelines under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.  The project implementation
consultants would be duly employed and are on location and ready to commence operations before credit
efJectiveness. The technilcal proposals for consulting services for project implementation have been invited
from the short listed firms, the consultants selection would be completed before the Board approval. For
recruitment of Monitorinig and Evaluation consultants, proposals have been invited from the short listed
fir ms.



- 26 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs Estimates
4.1                 Total Project costs are estimated at US$104.8  million (Rs. 4,139  million) equivalent,
includinig  physical and price contingenicies, and US$10 millioni (Rs. 389 million) in local taxes.  The
foreigii excliange componenlt is estimated at US$10.2 milliol (Rs. 398 million), or about 10 percent of
project costs.  Project cost summmaries are given  in Tables 4.1  and 4.2 and detailed  costs are given  in
Aninex 7.  Project base costs are expressed in April 1996 prices (negotiations period).  Base costs were
derived from  detailed cost analysis of recent works undertalken in ongoinig projects and market surveys.
The cost of tubewells are based  on  field  surveys anid  market prices of equipment.  The watercourse
renovationi  costs are  based  oii similar works carried  out in  PuLnjab  under oin-going  on-farm   water
maniagemilenit projects. The drainage improvemenits and canal lining costs are based on average quantities
and recenit contracts for similar works. Similarly. velicles and equipment costs, and consultancy services
costs are based oni recent contracts for comparable services in Punjab and Pakistan.  The cost estimates
include physical contingenicies applied to the base costs at the rates of 10 percent for canal lining and
drainage civil works.
Table 4.1: Project Costs by Components
Local     Foreign    Total       l.ocal   Foreign    Total    %
Foreign
Exchange
A. ITubewells Disinvestment                            ........ Rs million ..........L ..... ISS million .
'I'raisfer of SCARP Tubewells (STWs)             376.7    35.8         412.5    11.4      1.1         12.5     9
Community Development and Support                178.0    42.0         220.1     5.4      1.3         6.7    19
Training & Redeployment of STW statt'            269.6     _           269.6     8.2       -          8.2      -
Sub-Total                                      824.3     77.8        902.1    25.0      2.4         27.4     9
B. )evelopment of Regulatory Framework              77.4      14.9        92.3    2.3        0.5         2.8     16
C. Improsement of Irrigation Facilities
in FCW Areas
Waicrcnurse Renovations                          932.4    74.2        1,006.6    28.3     2.2         30.5     7
Relhabilitation of 'anal Structures               97.3      6.2         103.5     2.9     0.2          3.1     6
Sub-Total                                     1,029.7    80.4       1,110.1    31.2     2.4         33.6     7
D. Control of Saline Intrusions
Improvement ot' Drainage Facilities               5.4      0.6          6.0      0.2      -           0.2     10
Canal lrnpro'.ements in Saline Areas             270.4    33.1         303.5     8 2      1.0         9.2     11
Watercouise Improvements                         466.7    37.5         504.2    14.1      1.2        15.3      7
Sub-Total                                        742.5     71.2        813.7    22.5      2.2        24.7      9
E. Nlonitoring and Evaluation                       62.5      24.0        86.4      1.9     0.7          2.6    28
F. Project NlWanagement                             49.2      8.3         57.4      1.5      0.2         1.7    14
G. 1'echnical Assistance and T'raining              45.4      33.4         78.8     1.4      1.0         2.4    42
'I'otal Baseline C'ost                        2,831.1    309.9      3,141.0    85.8     9.4         95.2    10
Phi sical Contingencies                          33.5      3.3         36 7      1 0      0.1         1.1     9
'rice Colitinigelicies                           876.1     85.0        961.1     7.8      0.7         8.5     9
t'otal Project Costs                         3,740.7    398.2       4,138.8    94.6    10.2        104.8    10



- 27 -
Table 4.2: Cost By Summary Accounts
Percent
Million Rupees         Million US $       Foreign
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
A. Civil Works
1. Civil Works               1,464.3  157.7  1,622.0   44.4    4.8   49.2    10
2. Skilled Labor a/            114.5       -    114.5    3.5        -    3.5      -
3. Unskilled Labor a/          336.7       -    336.7   10.2        -   10.2      -
Subtotal Civil Works          1,915.5  157.7  2,073.2   58.1    4.8   62.9         8
B. Administration &
Operations Expenditures    285.3   23.5    30B.8    8.6    0.7    9.4           8
C. Training                     203.9    3.8    207.7    6.2    0.1    6.3         2
D. Consulting Services          248.1   93.0    341.1    7.5    2.8   10.3    27
E. Equipment                     18.7    4.7       23.4    0.6    0.1    0.7    20
F. Vehicles                      63.5   27.2       90.8    1.9    0.8    2.7    30
G. Severance Packages            96.0       -      96.0    2.9       -    2.9       -
Total Baseline Costs        2,831.1  309.9  3,141.0   85.8    9.4   95.2    10
Physical Contingencies           33.5    3.3       36.7    1.0    0.1    1.1       9
Price Contingencies             876.1   85.0    961.1    7.8    0.7    8.5         9
Total Project Costs b/    3,740.7  398.2  4,138.8   94.6   10.2  104.8    10
Inicludes labor for CTW installation and Watercouise improvements.
h/     Includes taxes and duties of about Rs. 389 million or 1S$10 million equivalent.
4.2           Additionally, the cost estimates include allowances for price escalations during
implementation based on IDA's estimated domestic and foreign inflation rates as shown in Table 4.3.
The price contingencies are about 9 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies. The exchange rates
used are constant purchase parity exchange rates.
Table 4.3: Annual Inflation and Exchange Rates (Percent)
Fiscal Years
1996     1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Domestic Costs                   12.5     10.0   7.7   7.1    6.9    6.9
International Costs               3.3      2.3    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4
B. Project Financing
4.3           Table 4.4 shows the proposed project financing plan.  Farmers' Organizations (30
percent), GOPunjab/GOP (16 percent), and IDA (54 percent) would jointly finance the project. FOs
would provide about Rs. 1,256 million (US$31.8 million), of which roughly Rs. 657 million (US$16.8
million) would be in civil works and materials and Rs. 599 million (US$15 million) in skilled and
unskilled labor. IDA would provide a credit of SDR 38.5 million (US$56 million, equivalent to Rs.
2,220 million), and GOPunjab/GOP the remaining Rs 663 million (US$17 million). IDA's credit would
finance 54 percent of project costs, including 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 48 percent of
local costs. IDA's financing is about 77 percent of the project costs excluding FOs share, and 89 percent
excluding duties and taxes.  GOPunjab/GOP would provide its share of project finances to the



- 28 -
implementing agency out of annual budget appropriations. The GOP (federal Ministry of Finance) would
allocate the project credit funds to GOPunjab under standard arrangement for development assistance to
the provinces. Full approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC)
of the project s Planining Commission Form No. I (PC-I) and sanctioning of project expenditures would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Table 4.4: Project Financing
(Million US Dollars)
FOs           GOP           IDA      Total       %
GOPUNJAB                                 IDA
Civil Works and Materials    16.8       11.0          27.2          55.0      49
Skilled Labor              3.8                                       3.8       -
Unskilled Labor           11.2                                       11.2      -
Subtotal Civil Works      31.8          11.0          27.2          70.0      39
Incremental Administration and
Operating Expenditures                  1.0           9.1          10.1      90
Training                                               6.8           6.8      100
Constilting Services                                  11.1          11.1      100
Equipment and Vehicles                   1.8           1.8           3.6      50
Severance Packages                       3.2                         3.2       -
Total                    31.8          17.0          56.0         104.8      54
Percent of Total         30.0          16.0          54.0
C. Procurement
4.4           Procurement arrangements are sunimarized in Table 4.5.  Civil works for canal
improvements (item le) would be procured through a single contract following international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Civil works for drainage works (item Id) would
be procured through a single contract following national competitive bidding (NCB). Vehicles and
equipment (including office furniture) for all components of the project (item 2) would be procured by
PMU through ICB as a single bid package with sub-packages consisting of homogenous items. However,
out of the total, office, survey and flow measuring equipment and furniture (item 2) estimated to cost
US$1.000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceed US$50,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedure.
4.5           FOs would procure CTW equipment following commercial practices of private sector
(item la). There is a variety of equipment available in the market. W/C construction material (item lb)
will be procured through NCB acceptable to the Bank. All skilled (masons) and unskilled labor would
be provided by FOs. Small works for rehabilitation of canal structures in FGW (item Ic), widely
scattered over the project area, would be procured through NCB acceptable to the Bank. Procurement
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent for equipment, vehicles, and for works would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (BSBDs) for procurement of ICB works
and goods would be used following Bank's guidelines of January, 1995. The Consultants for various
project components would be selected following Bank Guidelines for use of consultant.



- 29 -
Table 4.5: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)"
Procurement Method            Total
Procurement Element                        ICB            NCB           Other          Cost
1. Works
(a) Community Tubewells                                                13.5/b      13.5
(b) Watercourses                                       29.8/c          13.2/c     43.0
(16.7)                     (16.7)
(c) Rehabilitation of canal Structures                  3.8/d                       3.8
(3.1)                     (3.1)
(d) Drainage Works                                      0.2                        0.2
(0.16)                     (0.16)
(e) Canal Improvements                   9.5                                        9.5
(7.2)                                     (7.2)
Sub-Total Works                              9.5            33.8           26.7        70.0
(7.2)         (20.0)                     (27.2)
2.  Equipment (including office furniture)   3.6"                                       3.6
and Vehicles                            (1.8)                                      (1.8)
3.  Consulting Services                                                     ll.l'f     11.1
(I11. 1)   (I11. 1)
4.  Incremental Administrative and                                          10.1       10.1
Operating Expenditures                                                 (9. 1)      (9.1)
5.  Training                                                                6.8         6.8
(6.8)      (6.8)
6.  Severance Packages                                                      3.2'9       3.2
Total                                13.1            33.8           57.9       104.8
(9.0)         (20.0)          (27.0)     (56.0)
/a  Includes taxes, duties and contingencies. Figures are rounded to the nearest US$100,000. Figures
in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
/b  FOs would procure CTW material from the market and provide unskilled labor and pay for skilled
labor required for installation.
/c   Works are small and widely scattered. Watercourse improvements will be a collaborative effort,
FOs will provide skilled labor and masons (amount shown in other), and share material cost.
/d   Works are small and widely scattered.
/e   Out this amount, office, survey and flow measuring equipment and furniture estimated to cost
US$ 1,000 or less up to an aggregate amrount of US$50,000 equivalent may be procured through
local shopping.
/f   Consultants would be recruited following the World Bank Guidelines for use of consultants.
/g   Government Procedures.



- 30 -
D. Disbursement
4.6           Proceeds of IDA credit would be disbursed against the following expenditure category:
Category                                  Percentage to be Disbursed
1.    Watercourse Materials               56 percent of expenditures
2.     Civil Works
(a)    Rehabilitation of           80 percent of expenditures
Canal Structures
(b)    Drainage works              80 percent of expenditures
(c)    Canal Improvement           76 percent of expenditures
3.     Equipment (including office        100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent
furniture) and Vehicles               of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and,
50 percent of local expenditure for items
procured locally.
4.     Consultant Services                100 percent of expenditures
5.    Incremental Staff Salaries,         90 percent of expenditures.
allowances, and operating,
expenditures
6.     Training                           100 percent of expenditures
4.7           IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure (SOE) for: (a) civil works
contracts, goods, equipment and vehicles costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; (b) incremental staff
salaries, allowances and operating costs, and training services; (c) consulting firm contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent; and (d) individual consultant contracts below US$50,000 equivalent. PMU
would retain supporting documentation for these items for review by IDA and external auditors. All
other contracts would be fully documented. Estimated disbursement schedule is give in Annex 8.
Special Account and Retroactive Financing
4.8           ro facinitate IDA disbursements, PMU would open a special account for IDA project
funds with the National Bank of Pakistan with an authorized allocation of US$3.0 million representing
reimbursable portion of estimated expenditures for four months. The authorized allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent of US$1.0 million until the aggregate disbursements from the credit are
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDRl1.0 million. This account would be used for all local and
foreign expenditures of all categories. Only large expenditures, more than 20 percent of the Special
Account, would be submitted directly to IDA for payment without using special account funds. PMU
would submit applications for replenishment of the account to IDA at monthly intervals, or whenever the
amount to be replenished exceeds 20 percent of the authorized allocation. The project completion date
would be June 30, 2001, and Closing date of the Credit will be December 31, 2001.
4.9           To expedite project start-up, IDA would finance retroactively project expenditures
incurred after September 30, 1995 to the date of Credit signing, up to a limit of SDR 200,000 equivalent,
provided the procurement procedures acceptable to IDA were followed. Expenditures on vehicles,
equipment, consultancy services, incremental staff salaries and operating expenditures, training, other
preparatory expenditures would be eligible.



- 31 -
E. Project Accounts and Audit
4.10          Project accounts will be maintained by PMU. The accounts would identify all project
transactions on an on-going basis, including contributions from FOs, GOPunjab/GOP, and IDA.
Assurances vere obtainedfrom GOP, and GOPunjab that the project accounts, including Special Account,
would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently
applied by indepentdent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors would issue separate
opinions on the project accounts, disbursementsfrom the special account, and SOEs and supporting
documents used as a basis for disbursementsfrom the credit. PMU would provide project accounts to
its auditors unaudited within three months after each fiscal year (by September 30). and would submit an
audited report of project accounts to IDA withlin six months (December 31).
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND COST RECOVERY
A. The Roles of Implementing Agencies
5.1          The project would be implemented by a Project Management Unit in the Planning and
Development (P&D) Department, PID. PAD and FOs in collaboration with WAPDA. The existing
Provincial Policy Committee (PPC) and the Project Coordination Committees (PCC) established under
the ongoing Second SCARP Transition Project would provide policy guidance, assist with inter-
Departmental coordination, and hold periodic reviews of progress at the provincial and field levels,
respectively. The proposed organization is shown in Charts I and 2, and the roles of implementing
agencies are described below. The PMU, PPC and PCC would be maintained with composition and TOR
acceptable to IDA until the project completion.
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
5.2          The PMU would have minimal staff only for the duration of the project and it would be
supported mainly by the consultants. PMU would be composed of a full time Project Director (PD), two
ex-officio Members (one each from the Punjab Irrigation Department (PID) and the Directorate General
of Water Management (DGWM), and three Directors as well as support staff. The Directors would be
recruited from the open market or supplied by a management consulting firms on fixed-term contracts
for the duration of the project. The PD would be a senior official of the P&D Board of the level of
Member of the Board. The PMU would be supported by a multi-disciplinary team of consultants who
would provide project implementation assistance (PIA) in project management, community mobilization,
engineering design and construction supervision, and development of groundwater regulatory framework
(terms of reference are in Annex 3). The PMU would also employ an independent organization or
consulting firm to carry out project impact evaluation studies (PIES) (TOR are in Annex 6). The PMU
would be responsible for:
a.    overall project management and coordination;
b.    development of groundwater regulatory framework;
c.    community development for formation of FOs and establishment of CTWs, including
processing and disbursement of financial assistance to FOs;
d.    performance monitoring and evaluation, including development of an MIS for the project;
e .    impact evaluation studies;
f.    planning, budgeting, maintenance of consolidated project accounts, including the IDA
Special Account, and ensuring timely submission of audit reports; and



- 32 -
g.      procurement of vehicles and consulting services required for the project.
GOPunjab would delegate necessary administrative and financial powers3' to the PD PMU to carry out
these responsibilities. The responsibilities of various members of the PMU would be as follows:
5.3     The PD  PMU  would be responsible for overseeing overall project implementation.  Main
responsibilities would, inter alia, include:
a.      managing overall project implementation and coordinating with PID and the DGWM;
b.      acting as the chairperson of the PCC and as the secretary of the PPC and reporting
progress to the P&D Board;
c.      ensuring adequate staffing of the PMU and timely procurement of goods and services;
d.      preparing consolidated annual work plans and budgets for all project components by
March 31, each year for the following fiscal year;
e.      maintaining consolidated project accounts, and the IDA Special Account;
f.     ensuring timely completion of annual audits;
g.      submitting withdrawal applications to IDA;
h.     disbursing financial incentives to FOs;
i.     removal and/or sales of STWs machinery through open auctions; and
j.      ensuring that the project complies with all the covenants agreed with IDA, and reporting
deviations to the PPC in a timely manner.
5.4    The Director [MIS, Administration, Budget and Accounts (MABA)J would be an experienced
Chartered Accountant (or equivalent) with experience in maintaining an MIS, administration, preparation
of budgets and maintenance of accounts. With the assistance of the MIS, as well as budget and accounts
specialist supplied by the PIA consultants, the Director (MABA) would:
a.     establish an MIS for the project and submit periodic progress reports on all project
components to the PD PMU, PPC and IDA;
b.     be responsible for administrative matters relating to the PMU;
c.      prepare annual budgets and  requests for appropriation  of funds in the Annual
Development Programs;
d.      maiitain consolidated project accounts for all projects in a form that facilitates annual
audits and timely submission of audit reports to IDA;
e.      maintain the project's Special Account in accordance with IDA procedures;
f.     prepare withdrawal applications for submission to IDA;
g.     ensure timely disbursements of incentives to FOs, once cleared by the Director
(Community Development).
5.5     The Director [Community Development (CD)] would be a sociologist/anthropologist with
experience in community mobilization and participatory irrigation management, preferably in groundwater
management. With the assistance of the CDSG team supplied by the PIA consultants, the Director (CD)
would, inter alia, be responsible for:
a.     managing and supervising the operations of the project's four field offices, the CDSG
team of PIA consultants, and the NGOs involved in community mobilization;
The Project Director of PMU would be delegated non-lapsing full powers normally given to Grade I officials in GOPunjab. In
addition, PD would have full powers for hiring and terminating contract staff for the PMU, procuring consulting services, vehicles,
equipment, office furniture, disbursement of financial assistance to FOs, acquiring office buildings, auctioning STW machinery etc.



- 33 -
b.     maintaining consistency of community mobilization methodology and approach followed
by the PIA consultants, OFWM field teams and NGOs;
C.     preparing and implementing programs for training the SOs/ASO and other field staff;
d.     ensuring timely disbursements of incentives to FOs;
e.     maintaining a data base on the activities and progress of SOs/ASOs and on the particulars
of the FOs and CTWs established;
i.     ensuring timely removal of STWs machinery from the bore holes; and
g.     receiving feed back and addressing issues identified by the project impact evaluation
consultants regarding the performance of FOs and other aspects of the project's impact.
5.6    The Director [Regulation] would be a groundwater specialist with experience in legal aspects
of groundwater management and regulation, as well as monitoring and evaluation of groundwater
projects. The main responsibilities of this positioni would include:
a.     Managing and supervising the PIE consultants, and the PIA consultants team responsible
for developing groundwater regulatory framework;
b.     developing and maintaining a database on groundwater table and quality in different areas
of Punjab;
c.     classifying aquifers in Punjab in different Groundwater Management areas;
d.     developing a database consisting of basic information for each management area and
updating it on a continuous basis;
e.     identifying in each management area the sources of aquifer recharge as well as
extractions;
f.    identifying critical areas requiring extensive management;
g.     developing and calibrating groundwater models to simulate the groundwater behavior in
the long-term, including wet and dry cycles;
I.     developing proposals for establishing rights to groundwater by distributary command
area, watercourse command (chak) and by farm;
i.     estimating safe aquifer capacity by watercourse command, as well as by distributaries;
j.     developing proposals for a program for licensing the groundwater tubewells with the
objective of achieving safe installed capacity;
k.     developing proposals for detailed institutional setups for groundwater management in each
management area, according to the type and the severity of the problem; and
I.     developing proposals for new  legislation that may be required for facilitating
implementation of the regulatory framework.
5.7    The PID through the Member (Irrigation) of PMU, would be responsible for STWs closures
and retrieval of machinery from the boreholes and their capping32, canal rehabilitation/lining, drainage
rehabilitation, performance contracts for O&M, and redeployment of redundant staff. For this purpose,
PID would put all the SCARPs included in the project, and one canal construction division under the
jurisdiction of the Member (Irrigation). Specifically the PID would:
a.    issue official notifications for and implement closure of STWs according to work plans
agreed with the PD PMU;
b.     ensure timely retrieval of closed STWs' machinery, to free-up boreholes for installation
of CTWs, through contracts or auction;
c.    identify minor and distributary canals to be lined, based on measurement of water losses,
This would done thirough open auction.



- 34 -
risk of breaching, and willingness of FOs in meeting the full capital cost;
d.     encourage formation of FOs along the canals with assistance from the CDSG;
e.     award and manage contracts for canal lining, improvement of structures, and
rehabilitation of drainage tubewells;
f.     encourage farmer participation in the watch and ward, and O&M of drainage tubewells
rehabilitated under the project, and award "performance contracts" for O&M; and
g.     implement the staff re-deployment package.
5.8    The PAD, through the Directorate General of Water Management, would be responsible for
improving watercourses. and establishing FOs and CTWs in designated areas.  The DG Water
Management would designate a Project Manager. and assign four Area and twenty five Field teams to
carry out these activities. The Member (Water Management) would, inter alia, be responsible for: (i)
ensuring close coordination between the PMU and the Directorate General of Water Management; (ii)
drafting necessary bye laws for WUAs and FOs to allow ownership and/or leasing of CTWs/land; and
(ifi) preparing innovative designs for layout of CTWs so that they could be installed on the public land
along the watercourses. Specifically, the PAD would:
a.     carry out Watercourse Assessment Surveys in areas designated by the PMU;
b.     deploy trained Social Organizers in the designated areas to mobilize farmer support for
the STW privatization, and assist farmers in forming viable FOs and installing CTWs;
c.     disburse financial incentives for CTWs in a timely manner33;
d.     provide follow-on "after-care" services to FOs to ensure organizational sustainability, and
provide technical assistance in tubewell operation and maintenance, improved water
management and improved agronomic practices;
e.     liaise closely with the CDSG of the PMU to avail training programs for SOs. and
maintain consistency of approach and methodology for social mobilization activities;
f.     establish water users associations and improve watercourses;
g      ensure timely recovery of farmers' share of watercourse improvement costs; and
h.     submit periodic progress reports to the PMU.
5.9    NGO's Role.   Currently there are no NGOs in Punjab with experience in establishing FOs and
capable of assuming full responsibility for managing an extensive social mobilization program needed for
the project. However, some local service NGOs have working relationships with local community based
organizations (CBOs) and/or local activists who could help mobilize farmer participation in the project.
Wherever feasible, the PMU will seek cooperation of local service NGOs and CBOs either directly or
through the PIA consultants to assist with community mobilization. In selecting NGOs/CBOs, it would
be ensured that they: (a) are legally registered and maintain accounts that are audited annually; (b) are
involved in rural development as their main objective and they are not affiliated with any political
organization; (c) have adequate number of field staff conversant with local languages and customs, and
have good knowledge and understanding of the socio-economic conditions in the area; and (d) are
supportive of the project objectives and can work in harmony with the rest of the project team.
5.10   FO's Role.    FO's would play a critical role in project implementation. They would be eligible
for receiving project assistance for establishing CTWs if they have membership of at least one-third of
the farmers within the command of an STW. FOs wishing to establish CTWs would be required to
register themselves as a water users association or its sub-group (e.g. a tubewell committee) under the
Punjab Water Users Associations Ordinance of 1981. The FOs at the CTW level would, inter alia, havc
the following responsibilities: (a) interacting with the field teams of PMU and/or OFWM staff to prepare
V The PD PMU will advance funds to the Member (Water Management) on a yearly basis based on estimated targets.



- 35 -
work plans for transfer of STWs; (b) determining the best option for replacing STW pumpage, in terms
of type, size and location of CTWs; (c) installing, operating and maintaining CTW, and distributing water
to its members according to agreed shares and schedules; (d) maintaining bank accounts and collecting
members' share ot capital, operation and maintenance and replacement costs; (e) maintaining capital and
O&M accounts and log books; (f) improving water management in the watercourse command; and (g)
participating in watercourse and canal improvement programs.
5.11          The watercourses with working FOs where the majority of farmers agree to cooperate
for improving the watercourse and managing water deliveries at the chak level would be considered for
improvement.  In the fresh groundwater areas these FOs would qualify for project assistance for
watercourse improvements after they have effectively operated and maintained their CTWs for a period
of one year. During this period they would: (i) elect their executive committee, including a Chairman,
a General Secretary, and a Treasurer; (ii) improve distribution of canal as well as CTW water, and the
coimnmunlity and farm channels: (iii) open a bank account, generate funds for up-front contribution for
W/C improvement, from sales of CTW water and contributions from FO members; (iv) collect farmers'
shares for repayment of material costs to the government; and (v) participate in improving water
distribution at the distributary level, and collecting contributions for the capital cost of improving
distributaries.
5.12   WAPDA's Role.        WAPDA would provide electric connections to FOs who are close to
electric supply and decide to install electric CTWs. Where STWs are converted to CTWs as such under
the transferinode, WAPDA will transfer the title of electrical connection to FOs against normally needed
security deposits. It would also assist FOs in removing unnecessary electrical wiring and equipment.
B. Project Coordination
Project Coordination Committee
5.13                 At the project level, an existing Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would
be responisible for ensuring coordination among various agencies and facilitating project implementation.
The PCC would be chaired by PD of PMU and have the following members: (i) from PID: SE's of
concernedJ SCARP, canal and drainage Circles; (ii) from the PAD: the Area Coordinator of OFWM; and
the Deputy Director Agriculture; (iii) a representative of District Administration; and (iv) representatives
of selected FOs. The PCC would meet once every month. The PMU would also act as its secretariat.
Provincial Policy Committee
5.14                 The existing Provincial Policy Committee (PPC) would provide policy guidance
and steer project implementation by providing inter-agency coordination at the highest level. The PPC
would be chaired by the Chairman P&D Board and the Secretaries of Irrigation, Agriculture, and Finance
would be its members. The PD of PMU would act as its secretary. The PPC would meet at least every
six months. or whenever issues requiring resolution are submitted for its consideration. The main
functions of the PPC would be to: (i) resolve issues not settled by the PCC; (ii) ensure provision of
adequate budgetary allocations for project implementation as well as operation and maintenance (O&M);
(iii) ensure adequacy and continuity of PMU staff; (iv) ensure that the project complies with legal
covenants; and (v) recruit and supervise consultants to carry out full supervision of the project twice a
year, independently of the PMU.



- 36 -
C. Implemnentation and Supervision
5.15   Project Start-up Activities.   The project would be implemented over a five year period
(FY1997-FY2001). The project works require relatively simple engineering designs for watercourse
improvements and canal lining, that are prepared routinely by PID, OFWM in close cooperation with
farmners. Similarly. farmers in Punjab have considerable experience in installing as well as operating and
maintaining tubewells. Drilling facilities. tubewell equipment (pumps, prime movers, screens, pipes,
etc.) and repair workshops are available locally at the village level in most areas. Project activities are,
therefore, expected to pick up as soon as the community mobilization activities are initiated. Staff for
implementationi of canal, drainage and W/Cs improvement works are already in position. Immediately
following appraisal in June 1995, GOPunijab notified the establishment of the PMU and assigned part-
time staff Assurances would be obtained at during negotiations that recruitment of full time core staff
*for the PMU (U'ull time Project Director and Directors and support staff) would be completed by September
30, 1996. The acting PD PMU has initiated procurement of consultants and equipment. GOPunjab have
approved a PC-lI that would authorize project start-up expenditures. IDA would retroactively finance
eligible start-up expenditures incurred after June 1995. The project PC-I would be submitted to PDWP
for before negotiations and its approval be a condition for the Board presentation. The implementation
plan for various project components and key performance indicators are given in Annex 9.
5.16   Project Launch Workshop. To facilitate project start-up, the PMU in collaboration with PID
and PAD, would hold a project launcil workshop sooIn after Credit signing. The workshop would, inter
atia, familiarize project staff (as well as officials of conicerned implementing and cooperating agencies)
with the project objectives, components, implementation schedule and institutional arrangements,
procurement and disbursement procedures, and monitoring and evaluation aspects of the project.
5.17   Procurement Workshops.    Several procurement workshops would be conducted to provide
assistance in the procurement planning, the use of Banks Standard Bidding document, preparation of bid
documents, evaluation of bids and award of contracts. These workshops would be organized to train local
staff in procuremenit with the aim to enhance general capability in this area and, in addition to the project
staff will be open to staff of other agencies involved in procurement under large projects.
5.18   Annual Work Plans and Progress Reporting.       The MIS of the PMU would be designed
to meet the monitoring and reporting requirements of all project components. The PIA consultants would
design an appropriate MIS system to track key project indicators and develop an "issues and actions
oriented" progress reporting format acceptable to the PMU and IDA. The PMU. with inputs from PID
and PAD, would also prepare detailed annual plans/work programs and budgets, as well as requests for
allocation of funds in the federal/provincial annual development programs. The annual plans would duly
take into account feedback from project impact evaluation studies. The PID and PAD would submit
monthly progress reports to the PMU. The PMU in turn would integrate them and submit periodic
progress reports covering all project components to the P&D Board, PID, PAD and IDA.  The PMU
would also periodically prepare working papers for the PCC and PPC nmeetings. Assurances would be
obtained that by March 31 each year, the PMU would submit to IDA for its review and approval, a draft
Alnnual Plan, includinig work program and the proposed budgetary allocation for the following fiscal year.
5.19   Enhanced Governument Supervision of the Project.  In line with the decision taken during the
1995 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR). the project provides resources to support enhanced
project supervision by GOPunjab. The P&D Board would hire, independently of the PMU, services of
specialists in various fields to carry out detailed supervision of the project on behalf of GOPunjab from
time to time (cn average two times a year) and submit detailed suipervision reports. TOR of these
specialists as well as their reports would be shared with IDA.



- 37 -
5.20   IDA Supervision.    IDA would supervise the project twice a year on average. 11 required
supervision would occur more frequently during the first two years to help steer it through the start-up
stage. The project launch and procurement workshops would also be organized during this period. The
IDA supervision would comprise of one mzain supervision mission annually in the second semester of the
fiscal year, supplemented by a shorter mission in the first semester, and correspondence ani( clearances
as needed. Intensity of supervision missions would be reduced after the project is successfully past this
start-up stage. and a regime of enhaniced Government supervision has been established. Intenisive IDA
supervision during the start-up stage is justified given the nature of the project which, unlike convenitional
irrigation projects, is "software" intensive rather thani "hardware" intensive. Community mobilization
is a crucial elemenit of the project. This is a relatively new area in irrigation projects in Pakistan and
requires greater supervision inputs by IDA. Annex 9 contains IDA's proposed supervision plan. and
details of staff inputs and skill mix requirements for supervision missions. IDA supervision would be
facilitated by the proposed arrangements for enhanced Government supervision.
5.2 1         Mid-Term Review.   To evaluate the project's progress, and prospects of meeting its
objectives, a (letailed mild-term r-eviemt (MTR) would be carried out jointlv by GOPunjab, GOP and IDA
during the third year ot 'iplemien1'iation not Iitter ithan March 31, 1999. The MTR would evaluate the
overall progress and assess need for adjustments in the project scope and design, implementation approach
and methodology, and policy aspects. to ensure timely completion and achievement of project objectives.
The PMU would submit draft TOR for the MTR tor the P&D Board's and IDA's review by September
30, 1998, and an MTR Preparation Report compiled with the assistance of the PIA and PIE consultants,
or other specialists by December 31. 1998.
D. Operation, Maintenance and Cost Recovery
Operation and Maintenance
, 922         FOs would be responsible for O&M of tubewells as well as watercourses improved under
the project, while PID would be responsible for O&M  of distributary canals and drainage facilities.
Punjab annual O&M  budget for irrigation and drainage systems is about Rs. 3.9 billion (in FY 1996,
Table 5.1). The O&M expenditure is lower than the requirements. The gap between the requirements
and O&M expenditures varies over years. In 1994-95 it was about 13 percent compared to around 30
percent in 1993-94. Presently. O&M requirement of public tubewells represent about 40 percent of total
budget requirements for O&M of the irrigation and drainage systerms in the Punjab. With divestment of
STWs, GOPunjab's lhabi,ity for O&M would decrease significantly (Table 5.1), thus improving its
capacity to provide adequate budget to PID for O&M  of provincial irrigation and drainage systems.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOPunjab will discuss wvith IDA by February, 15 of
each fiscal vear the lev'el offunding requiredfor operation and .iaintenance of the irrigation and drainage
svsrenis in Puninb.for the following fiscal vear, and basea on mutually agreed funding levels, provide
adequate budgetary allocations.
5.23          While these measures would provide relief in the short-term, it would still be difficult to
maintain the enhanced level of O&M expenditures on the surface irrigation system in the long-run
because: (i) there would be competing demands for funds from other sectors; and (ii) the revenues
collected from water charges are less than 40 percent of O&M expenditures. Therefore, for the long-
term self-sustainability of the irrigation and drainage, GOPunjab would initiate implementation of pilot
projects for decentralizing management at the canal command level and enhancing beneficiaries
participation in the O&M of the system at distributary/minor level. To this end, the GOPunjab would
appraiseJiirst pilot project during fiscal year 1996-97 and start its implemnentation by July 1, 1998.



- 38 -
5.24          The O&M and cost recovery agreements reached under the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia
(South) Project (CR. 2410-PAK) would remain in effect. These agreements require GOPunjab to: (a)
expedite disinvestment of the public tubewells as being undertaken under the proposed project; (d) discuss
and mutually agree with IDA, by February 15, each fiscal year, the level of funding required for O&M,
and provide such funds for the following fiscal year (para 5.22); and (c) enhance cost recovery so as to
achieve by July 1, 1998 and then after maintain full recovery of O&M costs through improving revenue
collection as well as increasing water charges.
Table 5. 1: O&M for Irrigation and Drainage systems in Punjab
(Rupees million)
1994-95                              1995-96
Expendituresi/ Requirements        Budget       Requirements
Surface Irrigation Systems/    1,052.47           1,213.10          1,227.71        1,369.71
Canals Related
FGW Tubewells                    1,028.81         1,270.00          1,556.68        1,434.00
Saline Tubewells and
sub-surface drains               440.80          507.81             415.06          253.10
Surface Drains                      129.31           82.92             94.82            94.82
Flood Control                      265.02           161.64            179.59          179.59
Other 2/                            395.39          349.91            415.34          415.34
New Projects 3/                        -            228.73               -            257.30
Total                            3,311.81         3,814.11          3,889.21        4,003.86
Establishment Costs              1,618.13         1,502.38          1,707.86        1,577.14
Establishment Costs (U)             49%              39%               44%             39%
Reduction in O&M Expenditures
With Project
SCARP Tubewells                                                          1,098.37
Irrigation Tubewells                                                        51.00
Post Project Requirements                                                           2,854.49
1/     End of year budget.
7/     other includes, Hospitals and Clin-cs. Small Dams.  Exca.vator Store Division. Researc  Inst.tute.  Hill Torrents.  ade. isrration
Waterlogging and Salinity. Speosal R -enue Establ-shment and Pun-ab Engineering P-adeny EstFlsshmhent
3!     ProJects taken over by PID since 1987-88
Recovery of Capital Costs
5.25          The capital cost recovery arrangements would vary for different types of works undertaken
under the project. For SCARP Tubewells transferred as such to FOs, GOPunjab would charge them Rs.
10,000 for each STW. GOPunjab would provide a one time cash incentive of Rs. 20,000 to FOs for
installing modified CTW and Rs. 30,000 for installation of new CTW. These amounts represent about 50
percent of ihe cost of an average modified CTW and 45 percent of a new CTW. FOs would meet the
remaining capital costs. For watercourse improvements, FOs would provide skilled (masonis) and
unskilled labor, and a minimum of 30 percent of the materials costs up-front.  FOs total up-front
contributioni would thus be about 53 percent of the capital cost in FGW areas and 49 percent in saline
areas. In addition, FOs would pay back 45 percent of materials cost in six installments over a three-year
period. This results in 77 percent recovery in net present value terms, assuming an aniual interest rate
of 12 percent. Similarly, for distributaries and minors lined under the project, the beneficiaries would
contribute 5 percent of the capital cost up-front and pay another 50 percent of capital cost in installments
over a period of eight years. This results in 36 percent recovery in net present value term taking an
aniual interest rate of 12 percent. Assurance were obtained from GOPunjab for implemlentation of the
proposed capilal cost recovery plan.



- 39 -
5.26           About 1,500 watercourses would be improved in fresh groundwater areas and about 500
in saline areas. The saline watercourses involve some exteinalities as reduction in drainage and salinity
also benefits to the farmers outside the command of the watercourses. Similarly, the canal lining works
are proposed to be carried out in areas with saline groundwater for reducing the drainage and salinity
problems and protecting fresil groundwater at the interface of fresh and saline groundwater areas. The
farmers at the tail of the lined canal would have additional water supply but a signiificant amount of
benefits would be outside the command area. Considering these externalities and the current practice of
very low and in some cases no cost recovery of capital works in irrigation and drainage sector, the
proposed capital cost recovery plan is a considerable break-through in Pakistan. In case of watercourse
improvements 77 percent recovery is a significant improvement over the current practice of recovering
only 47 percent. Similarly, in case of canal lininig works for whlich presently there is no cost recovery.
A significanit amount of up-front recover) would enhlance the real recovery levels while ensuring
participationi of farimers before the carrying out the improvemiienit works.
5.27           The capital cost recovery levels are well witliln the farmers capacity to pay. Tlley would
pay about Rs 133. Rs. 253 and Rs. 493 per ha for CTWs installed by STWs transfer, modification and
for new diesel ttibewells respectively. These cost represenit about 2, 4 and 8 percent of net annual income
from  crops of large farms and slightly less for small farms. The farmers could finance watercourse
renovationis either throughi sale of CTW water or through cash contributions. A sale price of about Rs 47
per hour (Rs. 375 per acre feet) would be enoughi to provide required funds for initial contribution and
ahout Rs. 17 per hour (Rs. 134 per AF) for installments during remaining three years. These are much
below the market price of Rs. 60 per hour for 1.5 cusec tubewells. Alternatively, the beneficiaries could
finanice these works through cash contributioni. Average zontributions are shown in Table 5.2. These
represenit a small portion of present annual farn income from crops.
Table 5.2: Recovery of Community Tubewells, Watercourse Renovations and
Canal Lining Costs (Rupees)al
Fresh Groundwater             Saline Groundwater
Areas                           Areas
Per      Small    Large       Per      Small   Large
Hectare   Farm    Farm        Hectare  Farm    Farm
(2.5 ha) (10 ha)            (2.5 ha) (10 ha)
Comunity Tubewells
Transferred Tubewells                   133      332    1,330
% of Net Annual Income from crops               1.5         2
Modified Tubewells                      253      632    2,530
% of Net Annual Income from crops                 3         4
New Tubewells                           493    1,232    4,930
% of Net Annual Income from crops                 6         8
Watercourse Renovations b/
Up-front Contribution c/                973    2,432    9,730       1,758    4,395   17,580
% of Net An.ual Income from crops                11        15                   20       27
Annual Instalment (3 years)             340      850    3,400         620    1,550    6,200
% of Net Annual Income from crops                  4         5                    7        9
Canal Lining d/
Up-front Contribution (5 %)                                           225       562    2,250
% of Net Annual Income from crops                                                3        3
Annual Installments (8 years)                                         281       702    2,810
% of Net Annual Income from crops                                                3        4
June, 1995 constant Rupees.
bE,    Assuming average watercourse of 150 ha and 35 farms.
c/     skilled labor (masons) and 30' of material costs, in addition farmers would provide unskilled labor
themselves.
Si/    Average canal lining costs



- 40 -
5.28           Average cost of canal lining is about Rs. 4,500 per ha of cca (June, 1995 prices). The
initial conitribution would be Rs. 225 per ha with an annual instalment of Rs. 281 for 8 years. This
reflects about 3 percent of farm income (from crops).
5.29           The fariners would pay for the capital cost of installing CTWs in the first year. If they
choose to improve their watercourse, they would pay for up-front cost contributions for labor and materials
in the second year. The remaining cost of material would be paid starting form the third year. The canal
improvements would be undertaken only in saline area where the CTWs would not be installed. The
farmers could easily pay for capital costs of these works with the proposed phasing.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
A. Agricultural Production
6.1    The project would increase agricultural production over about 1.3 million ha, of which 1. I millionl
ha have fresh and remaining 0.2 million ha has saline groundwater. In these areas. crop production would
iicrease with project due to improved water supply and conjunctive use of surface and groundwater,
thereby helping to alleviate the deficit crop water requirements, expand the cropped area, and improve soil
conditions.
Water Availability
6.2            The condition and effectiveness of STWs would continue to decline, as it has been in the
past, and their delivery of water would likely fall to virtually nothinig over the next ten years. In the fresh
groundwater areas this would mean an overall reduction in irrigation supplies by about 26 percent. In
saline areas which depend on canals only, the irrigation water delivery at the farm level would contilnue
to decline due to deteriorating infrastructure. A significant number of large farmers already have PTWs.
After closure of STWs others who can afford them might install PTWs to replace the lost supply. This
would result in excessive installed capacity than safe aquifer yields, higher investment costs and increased
incidence of secondary soil salinity. Small farmers, on the other hand, would not be able to install PTWs.
Some would purchase PTW water from the large farms, and some small farmers, especially with
fragmented land holding, would not be able to get PTW water and their groundwater use would reduce.
With the closure of STWs the distribution of canal water would be affected adversely towards the tail of
the watercourses. The total amount of water available to small farms would fall, with a consequent
reduction in yields and cropping intensities. There are several limitations to distributing PTW water over
wider areas.:  These include: location of PTW; absence of a distribution network to other farms; higi
conveyance losses of small flows through open temporarily constructed chaninels; and difficulties in
schedulinig PTW  water during critical periods35. Although PTW  water is commonly traded among the
neighborilng farms, due to the above factors replacement of STW water with PTWs over the whole W/C
command would not be feasible without installing jointly managed and suitably located CTWs.
6.3            With the project, in areas where STWs are to be taken over by the FOs, or replaced with
modified and new CTWs, the water supply would be maintained at present levels. This, along with
improvements in the surface system, would result in an increase in aggregate water supply in the project
Recent studies show that utilization of PTWs ranges from 4 to 13 percent indicating limitation to water distributioii fromil PTWs over
a wide area.
During critical periods the PTW owners apply water to their own farms before giving to others.



- 41 -
area by over 10 percent. The timeliness of water supplies would improve due to less reliance on the
public grid as well as O&M system. The water quality would improve due to pumping from shallow
depths and better conjunctive use of surface and groundwater supplies, and reduced saline groundwater
intrusions.
Methodology of Project Impact Assessment
6.4           For the purpose of project impact analysis, it is assumed for the future base-case that after
closure of STWs the lost pumpage would be replaced with PTWs (future without project). Large farmers
would install PTWs. use water for themselves and sell water to small farmers. PTWs pumping costs are
much below the STWs but much highier thani the CTWs (Aniex 10, Table 2). It is further assumed that
there will not be any chanige in production due to transfer of STWs pumpage to PTWs or CTWs. The
project benefits arise from reduction in pumping cost with CTWs instead of PTWs, mainly due to better
utilization of the installations (future with project). In addition, the system improvements carried out in
fresh and saline areas would result in increased production mainly due to higher cropping intensities and
reduced pumnpage costs because of higher delivery efficiency (future with project and system
improvements). It is assumed that 75 percent of the farms in the project area would participate in the
project, or in other words 75 percent of the STWs pumpage would be replaced with CTWs, while farms
not participating may (or may not) replace pumpage by existing or new PTWs.  Surface system
improvements would take place in the areas/watercourses participating in the CTW program. Based on
the field experience, these assumptions are very conservative, hence the resulting benefits estimates may
be understated.
Impact on Production
6.5    Crop Yields.  Over the next ten years the crop yield in the project area would increase by about
five percent. It is assumed, however, that crop yields would be the same without or with STWs transfer
as well as with system improvement. (Annex I1, Table 2).
6.6    Cropping Intensities. Presently, average cropping intensities in different SCARP areas range
from 1 17 to 145 percent with small farms having a higher average intensity (about 140 percent) than the
large farms (121 percent). The same cropping intensity is assumed for future without or with transfer of
STWs. The cropping intensities would, however, increase by about 10 percent with surface system
improvement due to additional water availability from canals and tubewells resulting from improved
delivery efficiency (Annex 1 1, Table 3).
6.7    Cropping Patterns.   Major changes are not expected in the cropping patterns, except in areas
where surface systems are improved. In these areas, there would be a shift towards cotton and fruits in
Cotton-Wheat and Sugarcane-Wheat cropping systems, and towards Basmati, in Rice-Wheat systems.
6.8    Production.   Overall production in the future, without or with transfer of STWs, is assumed
to be the samc. However, production would increase in the systems improvement situation on the
participating farms. The increase in Basmati, Cotton, and Wheat is expected to be about 7,590, 12,770,
and 6,71 0 tons, respectively, on participating small farms and 15,150, 16,090, 4,650 tons on participating
large farms respectively (see Annex I 1, Table 5 for details).
B. Markets and Prices
6.9    Markets.      The project area, which covers some of the most productive agricultural areas in
the country, has a wetl developed transport network and there are a large number of rice, flour, sugar and



- 42 -
cotton ginniniig mills as well as milk processing plants. The Provincial Food Departmenit and the Pakistan
Agricultural Supply and Services Corporation are involved in procuremenit of rice, wheat, cotton and
sugarcane. Farmers also have easy access to a number of major agricultural markets in large towins nearby
such as Lahore, Faisalabad, SheikIlupura, Multan and Sarghoda.  The relatively small increase in
productic n would be either consumed on-farm or easily sold.
6.10   Input Supply. 'Ilhe incremenltal requirements would be readily available throughi the norimial input
supply mechanism.  Similarly, no difficulty is anticipated in supplying the very limiited increased
requirements for planting materials and pesticides.
6.11   Prices. Prices for various agricultural goods are determined by domestic supply and demanld, as
well as by Government policies with regard to interniationial trade, and taxes and subsidies. Until the
early- I 980s, agricultural output prices were kept low in order to containi the cost of living, while fertilizers
were subsidized to promote greater use. Since theni, output prices have been raised althoughi they are
generally still below international levels. Also, fertilizer subsidies are being removed and have already
been eliminated in the case of urea. Farn budget analysis is based on prevailing market prices (Aninex
10, Table 1 ) which may inciease in the future as the Government continiues to more closely align domestic
and internationial prices.
C. Farm Income
Farm Models
6.12          Farm models were developed ftor the three prevalent production systems found in the
project area: the Cotton-Wheat system representative of SCARP Ill Rangpur Ullit; the Sugarcanie-Wlheat
system representative of SCARP V, and most of SCARP 11 and Shalipur; and the Rice-Wheat system
representative of SCARP IV. Withinl each production system, models were developed for small farmers
(2.5 ha) and large farmers ( 10 ha). The small farn models represent 80 percent of farmers with less than
6 ha, who farm about 50 percent of the land; while the large farm models represent 20 percent of farmers
with more than 6 ha have the remaining 50 percent of the land. Crop budgets of major crops in financial
prices and economic returns are given in Annex I1, Table 2. In line with the prevailing situation, larger
farmers would: have higher yields; use more fertilizer; have lower cropping intenisities and employ hired
labor; and use tractors rather thanl bullocks. The farm models have been used to analyze the impact of
CTWs alone, as well as in combination with improving the surface systemiis. They are suLmiiiarized in
Aniex  I Table 3 and Table 4.
Impact on Farm Incomes
6.13          With the transfer of STWs to CTWs the cost of water for participating small farms would
be reduced by 64 percent (from Rs. 2,650 to 970) hence their net income from crops would increase by
about 8 percent. The cost of water to participating large farms would reduce by 40 percent (from Rs.
634,000 to 387,000 ) and their net incomes would increase by about 4 percent.  With system
improvements, net incomes (from crops) of participating small and large farms would increase by 9 and
10 percent respectively. Since, both small and large farmers would benefit from the project. they would
participate in the CTWs program. The detailed results of' farm11 modlels arc sho%% n in Annex I. 'I ahles
3 throuLgh1 5, and summarized in Table 6.2.



- 43 -
Table 6.2: Projected Farm Incomes
(Thousand Rupees)
Present         Future           Future           Future
Without STWs        With           With STWs
Transfer to        STWs           Transfer to
CTws           Transfer        CTWs and
to CTWs       Surface system
Improvements
Small Farmcrs (2.5 ha)
Crop Income                                   22 2             23 34           23 34            25.43
Water Charges
Abiana                                        0.40            0.23             0.23             0.26
Pumpiiig Costs                                 -              2.65             0 83             0.75
Amortization ol Pumps                           -                -              0.14             0.12
Net Income                                    21.56            20.50           22.14            24.30
Returns to Family labor (Rs/day)               160             145              156              158
Large Farmers (10 ha)
Crop Income                                   67 56            70.64           7064             77.15
Water Cliarges
,Ilbanu                                       1.7             0.85             0.85             0 97
Pumping Costs                                  -              4 68             3.32             2.99
Amortizationi of' Pumps                         -               I 66           ()155             0 50
Net Incomlle                                  65 86            63.44           65 91            72 69
RetLiris to Family Labor (Rs/day)              263             253              263              290
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
Quantified Benefits
7. 1             As described in the preceding chapter (para 6.2 to 6.4), in the future without the project
the PTWs are expected to replace the pumpage of STWs as these become derelict. The project would
generate benefits through installation of CTWs which are a lower cost alternative to the operation of
PTWs (Annex 10, Table 2). Although there is a likelihood that agricultural production would decline
with the closure of STWs, the benefits due to avoiding this loss with the project have not been quantified.
However, the benefits due to increased agricultural production with watercourses and canals
improvements in fresh and saline groundwater areas have been quantified. The project benefit streams,
therefore, include: (a) the benefits due to reduction in pumping costs --CTWs instead of PTWs; and (b)
the benefits due to increased agricultural production from increased water supply with system
improvements in fresh and saline groundwater areas. The benefits due to reduction in waterlogging and
salinity with measures under the Prevention of Saline Groundwater Intrusion component, as well as with
the development of a groundwater regulatory framework, and benefits of pilot projects and training under
the Technical Assistance component are not included.
7.2              The analysis based on these conservative assumptions shows that the project would
generate substantial economic benefits in the short- and long-term. The cost of pumping groundwater
with STWs is about Rs. 685 million (pumping about 2.32 MAF of groundwater in June 1995 economic
prices). By closing the STWs and replacing the same pumpage with PTWs the cost of pumping would



- 44 -
reduce by Rs. 114 million. With the project, assuming 75 percent participation in the CTW program,
the cost of pumping would reduce further by Rs. 174 million at full development. The returns to closing
the STWs are extremely high and even greater by replacing those with CTWs. With surface system
improvements, the value of production would increase by about Rs. 883.4 million (Annex 11, Table 6).
The project would directly benefit some 380,000 farm families, particularly the 80 percent with small
farms. On-farm employment would increase slightly, by about 3 percent in situations with CTWs only
and about 15 percent with CTWs and surface improvements.
Other Benefits
7.3            The project would also generate substantial environmental and other benefits. The high
capital investment required to set up PTWs and anarchic development of groundwater would be avoided.
The increased availability of electricity resulting from the shut down of STWs would also contribute to
overcoming some of the chronic electricity shortages in the country. It would encourage the participatory
irrigation management and development of FOs; and would lead to forming sustainable participation of
farmers at the higher level of the canal system. The introduction of groundwater regulations would
promote and guide private investments, and ensure environmentally sustainable exploitation of
groundwater. CTWs would improve the distribution of ground and surface water. Since CTWs are
easier to nmonitor and have self-regulating characteristics, costs of monitoring and regulation would be
lower. Finally, privatization of highly inefficient STWs would substantially reduce the O&M burden on
the Government. This would allow to re-direct resources to improve O&M of canals and drainage
systems, as well as increase investments in activities where the private sector cannot take a lead, such as
off-farm drainage, large canals and inter-river transfer facilities.
B. Economic Analysis
7.4            The economic viability of the project has been tested through estimation of an economic
rate of return (ERR).  The economic value of project benefits has been calculated by evaluating
incremental outputs and inputs at economic prices and, in the case of non-traded commodities, by using
a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 (Annex 10, Tables I and 2). Economic costs have been
calculated from total project costs, including physical contingencies, with the local cost component being
adjusted by the SCF and excluding taxes and duties.
7.5            The ERR for the CTWs component is estimated at 19 percent, for the surface
improvements component the ERR is 26 percent and for the overall project 24 percent (Annex 11, Tables
7),3  As explained above, the returns on the CTWs component are due to reduction in operating and
capital cost of CTWs compared with PTWs having low utilization rates. The returns on the surface
improvements, are due to increased water supply and improved conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater resulting in increased agricultural production.
C. Enviromnental Effects
7.6            The project would have a number of positive effects on the environment. It would control
waterlogging and the rising water table in that area. By promoting conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater, it would improve water quality and reduce risks of soil salinity. Lastly, it would help
control the intrusion of saline water into the fresh groundwater aquifer. The monitoring program
Benefit build up for STWs transfer is assumed to be 5. 25. 50. 85, 100 percent starting from year 2 of the project and
5,15,35.55,75.85 and 100 percent of full development starting from project year 3 for surface system improvements.



- 45 -
supported by the project and the development of a regulatory framework for province wide groundwater
use would be a major step towards sustainability of groundwater aquifers.
7.7            The effluent from drainage facilities to be rehabilitated under the project would not be
significant, and it would be disposed in the existing drainage systems. The detailed analysis carried out
under the Sectoral Environmental Assessment --National Drainage Program studies demonstrates that the
effluent quantity and quality disposed by the systems under consideration are far below the level that
could impact downstream  adversely. The impact of pollutants from diesel tubewells, as opposed to
electrical tubewells, would be insignificant because they would be scattered over a wide area.
7.8    Land Acquisition.    There are no on-going or anticipated future resettlemenit and rehabilitation
(R&R) is-.ues related to project activities.
7.9    Program Objective Category.           The project would support IDA's poverty relief objective,
through ;ts impact on growth of income of small and marginal farmers, private sector development,
public sector management and environmental objectives.  Farmers' participation in the irrigation
management would be instituted by development of effective FOs, therefore, the project would advance
IDA's private sector development objectives as well. The public sector management objectives would
be met by rationalizing the public sector O&M  expenditures. Lastly, it would support environmental
objectives by putting in place a moniitorinig program for groundwater aquifers, developing a regulatory
framework for their use, controlling the spread of saline aquifers, and improvinig the efficiency of usinig
the water resources.
D. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
Project Risks
7.10           There are three main risks to the project. Firstly, lower participation by the farmers
lxcause: (a' farmers may prefer to have their own PTWs; (b) the public tubewells are a source of cheap
it rigation water for many farmers, who may, especially the influential ones, pressure the Government to
stop or delay their closure; and (c) the PID staff which is presently engaged in the O&M of STWs would
become redundant with the divestment of public tubewells and may try to retard the project progress.
This risk would be minimized by: (a) launchiiig an extensive social mobilization program  for
demonstrating to the farmers the benefits of participatory irrigation management, and for developing
effective FOs; (b, providing incentives for installation of CTWs; and (c) assigning the responsibility of
privatization of tubewells to the PMU and by providing a training program and severance package for
redeployinent of PID staff. Participation in the CTWs is not mandatory, in fact it is a choice and a
superior sohluion for sustainable use of groundwater resources.
7.11           Secondly, there is risk of waterlogging and salinity in some areas when the operation of
public tubewells is stopped and replacement CTWs are not yet installed. This risks would only be in
limited project areas where water table is very shallow. This aspect would be minimized by careful
scheduling of the project activities especially the farmers support program.
7.12           The third risk relates to implementation of the investment program in a timely manner.
Apart from initial start-up delays, the GOPunjab demonstrated an improvement in the implementation of
water sector projects in the recent years. Punjab's pace for implementing Second Irrigation System
Rehabilitation Project (CR. 1 888-PAK) was considerably faster than other provinces. The implementation
of On-farm Water Management Program, consisting of small works jointly constructed by farmers and
the Government, is generally better than other projects with large civil works. Nevertheless, in order



- 46 -
to ensure timely completion, several start-up actions are being taken before project approval. PMU has
been established, the project implementation consultants have been selected, PC-I has been prepared,
recruitment of M&E consultants is underway, and bid documents for procurement of vehicles and
equipment have been finalized. In addition to these actions, the review and coordination arrangements
proposed for the project and support to PMU for building of project MIS would minimize this risk.
Sensitivity Analysis
7. 13         The project ERR is very robust and not very sensitive to variations in project costs or
benefits. The sensitivity analysis, based on the above risks, shows that it is highly unlikely that
unfavorable developments would reduce the project ERR to opportunity cost of capital (OCC) --taken as
12 percent. Even if the participation is only half of the anticipated level (37 percent), ERR of CTW
component would be equal to OCC while overall project ERR would be about 17 percent (Annex II
Table 7b). The benefits from surface system improvements would have to fall by more than 60 percent
for ERR to decline to OCC. Alternately, ERR would be equal to OCC if costs increase by about 100
percent. ERR response to different combinations of changes in costs and benefits ranging from -50 to
50 percent is shown in Annex 11, Figure 1.  Annex 11, Figure 2 shows combinations of changes in
overall costs and benefits where ERR would switch from being acceptable to falling below the OCC. A
few points fi-om this curve are given in Table 7. 1. It shows that if costs uniformly increase by 20
percent, the project's performance would still be satisfactory as long as the reduction in benefits is less
than 40 percent. Delays of one or two years in realizing benefits are not expected to affect the project's
performance significantly.
Table 7.1: Economic Rate Return Response to Variations in Costs and Benefits
Reduction in                Increase in Costs (Percent)
Benefits
(Percent)            20             30            40             50
0                 20.0           18.5           17.1          15.8
10                 18.0           16.5          15.2           14.0
20                 15.8           14.5          13.2           12.1
30                 13.6           12.3          11.1           10.1
40                  11.1           9.9           8.9            7.9



- 47 -
VII. Agreements and Recommendations
8.1    Assurances have been obtained from GOP and GOPunjab as appropriate that:
(a)    GOPunjab would formally close all Governrment-owned irrigation tubewells by June 30,
1998. The GOPunjab would also: (i) eliminate the provincial program for subsidizing
individually owned private tubewells in areas supplied by canal water by September 30,
1996; and (ii) initiate a study for preparation of a plan to phase out subsidies to the
individually-owned private tubewells in areas not supplied by canal water and where
private tubewells are the sole source of irrigation water, and implement such plan by
December 31, 1997 (para 3.9);
(b)    GOPunjab would finalize the training program and severance packages by December 31,
1996 in consultation with the STWs staff. The GOPunjab would make provisions in its
operating budget for retirement/severance benefits (as appropriate) for the staff whose
employment would cease during the following fiscal year and ensure that such benefits
are madit available to the eligible staff. The staff receiving severance benefits would not
be re-hired by the Government within a period of seven years from the date they cease
to be employed by the Government (para 3.14);
(c)    proper specifications and design criteria would be observed for all civil works constructed
under the project and measures would be taken to control quality of construction
acceptable to IDA (para 3.33);
(d)    PMtI would furnish proposals for staff training under the project to IDA for its prior
review and approval (para 3.35);
(e)    project accounts including Special Account, would be maintained and audited annually
in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently applied by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors would issue separate opinions on the
project accounts, disbursements from the special account, and SOEs and supporting
documents used as a basis for disbursements from the credit. PMU would provide
project accounts to its auditors unaudited within three months after each fiscal year (by
September 30), and would submit an audited report of project accounts to IDA within six
imonths (December 31) (para 4. 10);
(f)    the PMU, PPC and PCC would be maintained with composition and TOR acceptable to
IDA until the project completion (para 5.1);
(g)    by March 31 each year, the PMU would submit to IDA for its review and approval, a
draft Annual Plan, including work program and the proposed budgetary allocation for the
following fiscal year (para 5.18);
(h)    the PMU would prepare a mid-term review report by December 31, 1998 and detailed
mid-termii review (MTR) would be carried out jointly by GOPunjab, GOP and IDA by
March 31. 1999 (para 5.21);
(i)    GOPunjab will discuss with IDA by February, 15 of each fiscal year the level of funding
required for operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems in Punjab
for the following fiscal year, and based on mutually agreed funding levels, provide



- 48 -
adequate budgetary allocations (para 5.22);
(j)    GOPunjab would initiate implementation of pilot projects for decentralizing management
at the canal command level and enhancing beneficiaries participation in the O&M of the
system at distributary/minor level. To this end, the GOPunjab would appraise first pilot
project during fiscal year 1996-97 and start its implementation by July 1, 1998 (5.23);
(k)    for recovery of capital cost of works constructed under the project the following recovery
plan would be implemented. For each SCARP tubewell transferred to the farmers as
such for operation as CTW, the Government would charge Rs. 10,000. For CTWs
installed by modifying a SCARP tubewell, the Government would provide one time
financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000 for installation of a new CTW, while
the remaining costs would be borne by the FOs. For watercourse improvement, FOs
would contribute skilled (masons) and unskilled labor and 30 percent of the materials cost
up-front. In addition, FOs would pay back 45 percent of material costs in 6 installments
over a three-year period. Similarly, for canal lining, farmers would pay 5 percent of the
cost up-front and another 50 percent in installments over a period of eight years (para
5.25); and
(l)    the Planiing and Development Board would hire, independently of the PMU, services
of specialists in various fields to carry out detailed supervision of the project on behalf
of GOPunjab from time to time (on average two times a year) and submit detailed
supervision reports (para 5.19).
8.2    Condition of Effectiveness.   Following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    full approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC)
of the project's Planning Commission Form No. 1 (PC-l) and sanctioning of project
expenditures would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 4.3);
(b)    the project implementation consultants are duly employed and are on location and ready
to commence operations (para 3.36); and
(c)    recruitment of full time core staff for the PMU (full time Project Director, Directors and
Support staff)(para 5.15);
8.3           With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an IDA credit
of SDR 38.5 million (US$56.0 million equivalent) on standard terms with a 35 year maturity. The
Borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
C' pgd\pgd-5 siLr
JuIie   3. 19)6



- 49 -
Annexes
1.    Physical Features of the Project Area
2.    Cost of Major Project Elements
3.    Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Consultants
4.    Farmers Participation Plan
5.    Groundwater Management and Regulation
6.    Terms of Reference for Project Impact Evaluation
7.    Project Costs
8.    Schedule of Disbursements
9.    Project Implementation Plan.
10    Financial and Economic Prices
I1.   Farm Models and Economic Analysis
12.   Estimation of Economic Prices for Major Commodities






Annex 1
-50-                                        Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 1: Location and Area of Different SCARPs in Punjab
Cultivable
Gross    Command
Administrative           Area      Area    Canal
Location            Districts            ('000 ha)  ('000 ha)  Commands
Fresh Groundwater Areas
SCARP I a/           Rechna Doab         Sheikhupura, Gujranwala  493          462   Lower Chenab
Faisalabad and Jhang
SCARP II             Chaj Doab           Gujrat, Sargodha           685        602   Upper Jhelum
Jhang, Mandi Bahauddin                     Lower Jhelum
Shahpur              Chaj Doab            Sargodha                   45         37   Lower Jhelum
SCARP III            Lower Thal Doab    Muzaffargarh                461        400   Muzaffargarh
Jhang                                      Rangpur
SCARP IV             Upper Rechna Doab  Sialkot, Gujranwala         255        239   Upper Chenab
Sheikhupura                                MR Link,BRBD Link
SCARP V              Lower Rechna Doab  Toba Tek Singh               68         62   Lower Chenab
(Shorkot-Kamalia Area)                                                              Haveli
SCARP VI             Sutlej Valley       Rahim Yar Khan              87         82   Panjnad
(Allahabad Area)                        Bahawalpur                                  Abbasia
SCARP VIII           Sutlej Valley       Bahawalnagar                32         30   Fordwah
(Minchinabad Area)
Sub-Total                                                  2,126      1,914
Saline Groundwater Areas
SCARP II             Chaj Doab           Sargodha                   262        224   Lower Jhelum
SCARP III            Lower Thal Doab    Muzaffargarh                 57         27   Muzaffargarh
SCARP V              Lower Rechna Doab  Faisalabad                  289        134   Lower Chenab
(Gojra-Khewra & Khairwala Units)        Toba Tek Singh
SCARP VI             Sutlej Valley       Rahim Yar Khan             267        218   Punjnad
Bahawalpur                                 Abbasia
SCARP VII            Bari Doab           Lahore, Kasur               79         73   Central Bari Doab
(Pandoki Unit)
SCARP VIII           Sutlej Valley       Bahawalnagar                45         40    Fordwah
(Fordwah-Sidiqia II Area)                                                   _
Sub-Total                                                     999       716
Total (Fresh and Saline)                                        3,125      2,630
a/ Fresh STWS in SCARP one are under transfer to the Private Sector
Table 2: Location and Area of SCARPs included in the Project
Cultivable
Gross    Command
Administrative            Area      Area    Canal
Location            Districts            (o000 ha)  ('000 ha)  Commands
Fresh Groundwater Areas
SCARP II             Chaj Doab           Gujrat, Sargodha           685        602   Upper Jhelum
Jhang, Mandi Bahauddin                     Lower Jhelum
Shahpur              Chaj Doab           Sargodha                    45         37   Lower Jhelum
SCARP III, Rangpur  Lower Thal Doab    Jhang                        135        131   Rangpur
Unit                          Muzafargarh
SCARP IV             Upper Rechna Doab  Sialkot, Gujranwala         255        239   Upper Chenab
Sheikhupura                                MR Link,BRBD Link
SCARP V              Lower Rechna Doab  Toba Tek Singh               68         62   Lower Chenab
(Shorkot-Kamalia Area)                                                              Haveli
Sub-Total                                                   1,188     1,071
Saline Groundwater Areas
SCARP II             Chaj Doab           Sargodha                   262        224   Lower Jhelum
Total (Fresh and Balinm)                                        1,450      1,295



PAKISTAN                                                                                                         Annex I
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Developnient Project
Table 3: Climatic Data for Meteorological Stations in Project Area
Month
Jan            Feb            Mar             Apr            May             Jun             Jul            Aug             Sep            Oct            Nov             Dec           Total
Evapotranspiration (mm/day) a/
Sargodha                           2.0             2.6            4.0             5.4            6.7             7.7            6.1             5.3            5.8             5.3            3.7             1.4           1706
Lahore                             2.1             2.7            4.0             5.5            68              7.7            4.7             44             58              53             3.8             1.5           1652
Faisalabad                         2.0             2.6            3.9             5.4            67              7.7            6.1             5.3            59              4.5            3.1             2.0           1681
Multan                             2.1             2.7            4.2             5.6             70             7.9            7.3             6.8            6.2             4.8            3.3             2.3           1835
Bahawalnagar                       2.0             3.0            4.4             6.4            8.6             9.2            7.1             6 7            5.8             4.3            2.3             1.8           1877
Rainfall (mm) at
Sargodha                            13             23              35             30              21             23             108             129             26               8             19              13            447
Lahore                              23             29              41             20              22             36             202             164             80              12              4              14            647
Faisalabad                          12             20              26              17             16             28             115             90              29              4               2               9            367
Multan                               7              10             20              13             10              12             61              33             23               2              7               7            204
Bahawalnagar                         3              14             12              11              6              17             62             43              10               1              4               4            186
Average Maximum Temperature (oC) b/
Sargodha                          20.4            22.6           268             33.8           39.6            42.1           38.1            36.7           36.7            33.3           27.8            21.8
Lahore                            20.2            22.3           26.6            33.7           38 6            40 5           36.2            35.2           35.6            32 6           27.8            22.0
Faisalabad                        19.6            21.8           26.1            33 1           38.6            40.5           37.0            36 0           35.9            32.6           27.2            21.3
Multan c/                            --              --             -               --             -               --              --             -               --             --              --             -
Bahawalnagar                      20.7            23.0           27.8            35.2           40.5            42.1           38.2            37 5           37.0            33.7           28.6            22.4
verage Minimum Temperature (nC) b/
Sargodha                           4.6             7.1           12.6            18.0           23 3            26.8           27.1            26 5            24 4           17.4            10.9            5.9
Lahore                             6.7             9.1            13.9           19.1           237             27.0            26.6           26.3           24.7            180             12 1            75
Faisalabad                         4.6             7.0            12 4           17.6           22 9            26.5           26.8            26.5            23.7           16.6            10.3            4.8
Multan c/                                                           -               -- -                                                                  -       .                             --
Bahawalnagar                       6.5             8.9            142            19.9           24.7            28.1           27.8            27.6            24.9           18.8            13 1            7.7
Average Wind3peed (km/hour) b/
SaTgodha                            2.4            2.9             3.4            3.7             3.8            4.4             4.3            3 4             3.0            2.3             1.9            1.8
Lahore                              1.2            1 8             2.2            2.3            2.4             2.8             2.6            2.1             1.7            1.2             08             0.9
Faisalabad                          1.4            2.1             2.4            2.7             2.9            3.2             3.7            2.6             2.1            1.5             1.1             1.1
Multan c/                                            --              -                              -.                                                                                           -              --
Bahawalnagar                        2.8            3.6            4.3             4.8             5.5            6.3             5.9            5 2             4.5            3.5             2.7            2.5
a! Rainfall and ET data are 30-year averages (1961-1990). and vere used in CROPWAT calculations of imgation requirements
b/ Temperature and Windspeed data are 10-year averages (1981-1990)



Annex I
-52-                                            Page 3 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 4: Profile Soil Salinity and Sodicity in the Project Area
(as Percentage of Profiles Sampled) a/
NSNS  b/          SNS  c/          NSS  d/           SS  e/
Initial Latest  Initial Latest  Initial Latest Initial Latest
Fresh Groundwater Areas
SCARP II                          58    79           8     7          9       1       25    13
Shahpur                           63    88         10      2          8       3       19      7
SCARP III Rangpur                 49    57          7      2          6      13       38    27
SCARP IV                          26    64           1    13         28       1       45    23
SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)         39    40           5    19         19       0       37    41
Saline Groundwater Areas
SCARP II                          65    64          8      9          7       4       20    23
a/ Source SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA.
b/ NSNS (Non-Saline and Non-Sodic)  ECe < 4 mmhos/cm at 25 C, SAM  13
c/ SNS (Salin; and Non-Sodic)     ECe , 4 mmhos/cm at 25 C, SAR  13
d/ NSS (Non-Saline and Sodic)-    ECe , 4 mmhos/cm at 25 C, SAR   13
e/ SS (Saline and Sodic)          ECe , 4 mmhos/cm at 25 C, SAM > 13
Table 5: SCARP and Private Tubewells, and Cropping Systems in SCARPs of Punjab
Cultivable                    Tubewells
Command                        (Number)                      Cropping
Area                 STWs               PTWs                Systems
(000 ha)
Fresh Groundwater Area
SCARP I  a/                         462                2,083            18,000            Rice/Wheat
SCARP II                            602                2,280            26,800            Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP Shahpur                         37                 258             2,033            Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP III                           400                1,688            16,450            Cotton/Wheat
SCARP IV                            239                1,001             5,110            Rice/Wheat
SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)             62                 101             3,000            Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP VI                              82                 623             1,688            Cotton/Wheat
SCARP VIII  (Minchinabad)             30                 212             1,549            Cotton/Wheat
Sub-Total                  1,914                8,246            74,630
Saline Groundwater Area
SCARP II                            224                  821             1,780            Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP III                             27                  61                              Cotton/Wheat
SCARP V (Khairwala &
Gojra Khewra)             134                   88                              Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP VI                             218                 514                              Cotton/Wheat
SCARP VII   (Pandoki area)            73                 101             2,700            Cotton/Wheat
SCARP VIII  (Fordwah-Sadiqia II)  40                      44                              Cotton/Wheat
Sub-Total                     716               1,629             4,480
Total Fresh and Saline           2,630                9,875            79,110
a! Fresh STrS in SCARP one are under transfer to the Private Sector



--53-                                       Annex I
Page 4 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 6: SCARP and Private Tubewells, and Cropping Systems in the Project Area
Cultivable                 Tubewells
Command                    (Number)                   Cropping
Area               STWs            PTWs              Systems
(000 ha)
Fresh Groundwater Area
SCARP II                        602             2,280          26,800          Sugarcane/Wheat
SCAR1, Shahpur                   37               258           2,033          Sugarcane/Wheat
SCARP III, Rangpur Unit         131               593           7,099          Cotton/Wheat
SCARP IV                        239             1,001           5,110          Rice/Wheat
SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)        62               101           3.000          Sugarcane/Wheat
Sub-Total               1,071             4,233          44,042
Saline Groundwater Area
SCARP II                        224               821           1,780          Sugarcane/Wheat
Total Fresh and Saline       1,295             5,054          45,822
Table 7: Public Tubewells in Punjab other than SCARP Tubewells
(as of July 1, 1995)
Name of the Scheme                           Number of Tubewells
1.     Rasul Tubewells                                        354
2.     Central Tubewells                                       91
3.     Mianwali Tubewells                                     122
4.     Campbellpur Tubewells                                   11
5.     Grow More Food (GMF) Scheme No. 1                       46
6.     GMF Scheme No. S                                        19
7.     GMF Scheme No. 6                                         8
8.     GMF Scheme No. 8                                        14
9.     Gojera Tubewells Scheme                                 15
10.    Shapur Tubewells Scheme                                  3
11.    Amroka Tubewells Scheme                                 21
12.    Allahabad Tubewells Scheme                              28
13.    Islam Qaim Tubewells Scheme Phase-I                     22
14.    Islam Qaim Tubewells Scheme Phase II                     9
15.    Khanbala Tubewells                                      30
16.    Raj Rahim Tubewell Scheme                               24
17.    Lama Distributary Tubewells Scheme                      17
18.    Bunwala Tubwells Scheme                                 21
19.    Punjnad Tubewells Scheme                                 3
20.    4-L Ikhtiar Tubewell Scheme                             25
21.    T. S. M. B Dewatering Tubewells Scheme                   8
22.    Tubewells in C.B.D.C.                                   83
23.    Tubwells in U.C.C                                       20
24.    Tubewells in L.B.D.C                                    19
25.    Tubewells in Depalpur Canal                             56
26.    Tubwells on Rasul Qadirabad Link                        96
27.    Tubewells on Qadirabad Balloki Link                     50
28.    Fida Shahpur Tubewells                                  13
29.    Satiana Project                                         71
30.    Karol Tubewell Scheme                                   16
31.    Tubewells along Chashma Jehlum Link                     40
32.    Tubewells along Taunsa Panjnad Link                     80
33.    Batapur Tubewells Scheme B.R.B.D.                      100
Total                                               1,535



-54-                                     Annex I
Page 5 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 8: Irrigation Water Supply in the Project Areas (MAF)
Canals a/ STWs         PTWs       Total
Fresh GW Areas
SCARP II                    1.94        1.54        1.98        5.46
Shahpur                     0.16        0.06        0.15        0.37
SCARP III Rangpur           0.62        0.25        0.39        1.26
SCARP IV                    0.57        0.44        0.31        1.32
SCARP V (SK Area)           0.22        0.04        0.18        0.43
Sub-Total                3.51        2.32        3.01       8.84
Saline GW Areas
SCARP II                    0.86        0.25        0.13        1.24
Total                       4.37        2.57        3.14       10.08
a/     Surface water estimated at the Watercourse head, average
average of 1998-89 to 1991-92
Table 9: Condition of STWs in Fresh Groundwater SCARP area of the Project
SCARP II   SCARP  SCARP III  SCARP  SCARP V    Total
Shahpur  Rangpur    IV
Unit
Over 80 % of original
Capacity (A Condition)
Number of STWs                   401        98        45       96         2       642
STW capacity (cfs)              4.00      1.64     3.55      4.90      2.00
Total Capacity (cfs)           1,604       161      160       470         4    2,399
50-80% of Original
Capacity (B Condition)
Number of STWs                   709        62      101       192        13    1,077
STW Capacity (cfs)              3.47     1.00      2.85      3.75      1.88
Total Capacity (cfs)           2,460        62      288       720        24    3,555
Less than 50% of Original
Capacity (C Condition)
Number of STWs                   714        15       316      689        54    1,788
STW Capacity (cfs)              2.33      0.66     1.19      1.20      1.45
Total Capacity (cfs)           1,664        10      376       827        78    2,955
Number of STWs Closed            233        65        --       23        32       353
STWs without data                223        18      131          1        0       373
Total Number                   2,280       258       593    1,001       101    4,233
Total Capacity (cfs) a/        6,247       245       980    2,018       107    9,597
Source. Surveys conducted by SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA
a/Capacity for tubewells without data is assumed equal to 'C' condition tubewell.



Annex I
Page 6 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 10: Water Table Depths in Different SCARPS in Project Area a/
Depth to Water Table (m)       Area with Water Table less
Pre-Monsoon (June)    Post-Monsoon (October)              than 1.5 m (%) b/
Annual                     Annual      Pre-Monsoon       Post-Monsoon
Change                     Change
1982    1992   (%)        1982    1992    (%)         1982    1992    1982    1992
Fresh Groundwater Areas
SCARP II                        3.0      3.8     2.7      2.8      3.5       2.5        12        3      21        7
Shahpur                         2.2     2.4      0.9      1.6      1.5      -0.6         7      19       41       65
SCARP III (Rangpur)             3.5      3.2    -0.9      3.3      1.9c/   -1.0          4      10        9       33c/
SCARP IV                        4.3     4.3        0      4.0      3.9      -0.3         0        0       1        4
SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)       4.2     4.2        0      4.3      4.2      -0.2         1       2        1        4
Saline Groundwater Areas
SCARP II                        2.5      3.2     2.8      2.1      2.8       3.3        27        5      46       20
a/  Source: Measurements by WAPDA.  These figures are based on linear regressions over a ten-year period.
b/  Classified as disaster areas (water table between 0 to 150 cm from ground level).
c/  increase in water level and disaster area in 1992 is due to extra-ordinary floods.



Annex I
Page 7 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 11: Water Quality of Deep Groundwater in Different SCARPs a/
Electrical                              Sodium                       Residual
Conductivity  b/             Adsorption Ration c/          Sodium Carbonate  d/             Composite e/
Safe  Marginal Hazardous    Safe Marginal Hazardous    Safe Marginal Hazardous    Safe Marginal Hazardous
A of STWs                      % of STWs                            % of STWs               % of STWs
SCARP II                           82          14         4       84         12         4        66        23         11       57        30   14
Shahpur                                                 --              --       --         --                        --       --
SCARP III Rangpur                100            0         0       99          1         0        68        26          6       68        26    6
SCARP IV                           99           1         0       99          1         0       67         32          1       67        32     1
SCARP V (Shorkot-Kamalia)          73         20          7       70         15        15       68         13        19        59        18   23
Total                              90           8         2       90          7         2        67        26          8       61        30     9
a/ Frsm sampling of groundwater quality by SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA
b/ Electrical Conductivity (EC):   Safe < 1500; Marginal 1500-2700; Hazardous > 2700 umhos/cm
c/ sodium Adsorption Ratio (SAR):  Safe .10;   Marginal 10-18;    Hazardous >18
d/ Residual Sodium Carbonate (RSC): Safe '2.5;  Marginal 2.5-5.0;  Hazardous >5.0 meq/litre
e/ Composite: Combined effect of EC, SAR and RSC                                                                                                                 Ln
Table 12: Comparison of Water Quality from SCARP Tube-Wells and Private Tube-Wells a/
Electrical                              Sodium                       Residual
Conductivity  b/             Adsorption Ration c/          Sodium Carbonate  d/              Composite e/
Safe  Marginal Hazardous   Safe Marginal Hazardous   Safe Marginal Hazardous    Safe Marginal Hazardous
% of Wells                     v of Wells                     v of Wells               % of STWs
SCARP Tube Wells (STWs)         82.4         9.3        8.3     89.7       7.6        2.6     78.2       16.5       5.3      51.5      30.3 18.2
Private Tube Wells (PTWs)    82.0           15.0        2.9     85.6      10.0        4.4     66.5       19.7      13.8      47.9      33.2 18.8
a/ Source: Sampling and analyses conducted by consultants (ACE)



Annex I
-57-                                             Page 8 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 13: Farm Size Distribution in Different SCARP Areas a/
Number of Farms  ('000)                              Average
Total       <5 ha         5-10  ha 10-20  ha    >20 ha    farm  size
(ha) b/
SCARP  II  (incl.  Shahpur)            293.7        197.7             63.2        24.1          8.6             4.4
SCARP  III  Rangpur Unit                22.1         14.3              4.9          2.1         0.8             4.7
SCARP  IV                               45.9         35.3              7.5          2.3         0.7             3.6
SCARP V                                 24.4         19.3              3.9          0.8         0.2             3.3
Total/Average                          386.1        266.6             79.5        29.3         10.3             4.3
Percentage                                           69.0             20.6          7.6         2.7
a/       Based on data from Agricultural Census (1980)
b/       Based on average farm size of 2.2, 6, 12, and 22 ha in each size class, respectively
C/       About 80% of farmers have less than 6 ha. based on the assumption that 50% of the farmers in the
s-10 ha class have 5-6 ha. These farmers have about 50% of the land area, and are classified as
small farmers, with an average of 2.5 ha. The remaining 20% of farmers have about 50% of the land
area, and an average farm size of 10 ha.
Table 14: Yields and Cropping Patterns in Different Production Systems
Croppinq Pattern (Dercent of cca)
Yields (tons/ha)       Cotton Wheat 1/  Sugarcane-Wheat 21   Rice-Wheat 3
Small     Large         Small   Large         Small       Large      Small  Large
Crop                             Farms      Farms        Farms   Farms         Farms       Farms      Farms  Farms
Kharif Crops
Rice  (Basmati)               1.30       1.36             5         5          15          11         50      50
Cotton                        1.28       1.40            35        35           5           5          1        1
Sugar Cane                   36.00      40.00             4         3          12          15          5        5
Kharif Fodder 4/             12.50      11.50            10         5          16          12         10        6
Other (Maize) 5/              1.38       1.50             7         5           7           6          8        8
Fruit ('000 Rs/ha)           15.00      16.50             4         3           2           1          2        2
Sub-Total                                            65        56          57          50         76       72
Rabi Crops
Wheat                         1.80       1.96            64        56          54          45         52      49
Rabi Fodder (Berseem)    27.60          25.80             9         6          18          10         16      10
Fruit ('000 Rs/ha)           15.00      16.50             2         2           8          12          1        1
Sub-Total                                            75        64          80          67         69       60
Total                                               140       120         137         117        145     132
1/ Representotive of SCAMPh III including Rangpur, VI and VIII
2/ Representative of SCARPs 1I and V
3/ Representative of SCaRP IV
4/ Maize and Sorghum
S/ Maize used as proxy for other crops including oilseeds and pulses



Annex I
-53-                                            Page 9 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 15: Assessment of Irrigation Requirements
(A) Climatic Data used in Calculation of Irrigation Requirements in SCARP II a/
Reference                      Effective
ET (ETo)         Rainfall Rainfall  b/
Month                                   (mm/day)        (mm/month)   (mm/month)
January                                       2.0             13.0          12.7
February                                      2.6             23.1          22.2
March                                         4.0             35.1          33.1
April                                         5.4             29.5          28.1
May                                           6.7             21.1          20.4
June                                          7.7             23.2          22.3
July                                          6.1            108.2          89.5
August                                        5.3            129.1         102.4
September                                     5.8             25.7          24.6
October                                       5.3               7.7           7.6
November                                      3.7             18.8          18.2
December                                      1.4             12.8          12.5
Total  (mm/year)                  1,705.6             447.3         393.6
Source: Agr-met Bulletin of Pakistan; climate Station; Sargodha
df Data are 30-year averages (1961-1990)
b/ Effective rainfall calculated using USBR method
(B) Crop Data used in Calculation of Irrigation Requirements in SCARP 11 a/
Average Cropped Irrig-
Irrigation   Area    ation
Planting        Harvesting        Number        Requirements    (%)       Reqt
Crop                              Dates             Dates         of Days       (mm/ha)  b/             (mm/crop)
Kharif Crops
Rice                        Jul 1-Jul 30   Nov 5-Nov 15          110-125              458          12         55
Cotton                      May 1-Jun 1    Nov 1-Dec 1             180                633           5         32
Sugar Cane                  Feb 1-Mar 10   Nov 10-Feb 20   280-360                   1127          10       113
Maize                       Jul 10-Aug 1   Oct 15-Nov 5             95                265           4         11
Fodder                      Mar 15-Aug 15  Jun 15-Nov 15            90                333          15         50
Other Kharif                Jun 1-Jul 15   Oct 15-Nov 5          120-125              435           7         30
Fruit                             --                --             360                790           2         16
Rabi Crops
Wheat                       Oct 15-Dec 15  Apr 15-May 15   150-180                    374          44       165
Fodder                      Sep 10-Oct 10  Mar 15-Jun 1          185-230              672          15       101
Other Rabi                  Oct 1-Nov 5    Mar 25-Apr 15   160-180                    306           6         18
Fruit                          --               --                 360                790          10         79
Total                                                                                             130       669
a/ Irrigation requirements calculated using CROPWAT
b/ A range of planting and harvesting dates, and lengths of crop season, were use
for each crop; the average irrigation requirements are weighted averages base
(C) Monthly Irrigation Requirements for SCARP II a/
Kharif             Rabi         Total
Crops            Crops  Irrigation
Month                                        (mm)              (mm) Reqt (mm) b/
January                                         2                32            34
February                                        3                49            52
March                                          10                70            80
April                                          19                72            91
May                                            31                26            57
June                                           47                13            60
July                                           28                 4            32
August                                         26                 1            27
September                                      69                17            86
October                                        59                37            96
November                                       19                30            49
December                                        2                13            15
Total  (mm/year)                              315               364           679
a/ calculated using CROPWAT
b/ The total irrigation requirements shown in this table are slightly
different than Table 15 B due to rounding.



59-                                               Annex I
Page 10 of 10
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 16: Irrigation Requirements and Water Supply in the Project Areas
SCARP II  SCARP III                            Total/
SCARP II (Shahpur)  (Rangpur) SCARP IV SCARP V a/ Average
Cropping Intensity (%)
Kharif Crops                                      55        55          51        73           70
Rabi Crops                                        75        75          69        67           75
Total                                        130        130        120        140          145
Irrigation Requirement at Root Zone (mm) b/
Kharif Crops                                     315       315         415       246          306
Rabi Crops                                       364       364         348       206          262
Total                                        679        679        763        452          568
Irrigation Requirement at Watercourse c/
Total  (mm)                                    1,191     1,191       1,339       793          996
Total  iteet)                                   3.91      3.91       4.39       2.60         3.27
Cultivable Command Area (CCA)
Total  ('000 ha)                                 602        37         135       239           62     1,075
Total ('000 acres)                            1,487         91         334       591          154     2,657
SCARP Irrigation Requirement
Total  (million cubic meter)                  7,171        439      1,754      1,897          621   11,936
Total  (million acre-feet)                     5.81       0.36       1.42       1.54         0.50      9.68
Present Irrigation Supplies (million acre-feet)
Surface Water Supply                           1.94       0.16       0.62       0.57         0.22      3.51
STh Water Supply (reported)   d/                1.88      0.12       0.26       0.66         0.04      2.96
S7T4 Water Supply (estimated) d/
Total Capacity (Cusecs)                    5,728       233         824     2,017          106     8,908
Average Utilization ()%                       35         34         29         30          46         35
STW Water Supply                            1.54      0.06        0.17      0.44         0.04       2.30
Private Tube-Well Supply                       1.98       0.15       0.39       0.41         0.24      3.17
Total Water Supply  e/                      5.47      0.37        1.18      1.42         0.49       8.97
With Project Irrigation Supplies (million acre-feet)
Surface Water Supply                           1.94       0.16       0.62       0.57         0.22      3.51
CTW Water Supply  f/                           1.54       0.06       0.22       0.44         0.04      2.30
Private Tube-Well Supply                       1.98       0.15       0.39       0.41         0.24      3.17
Total Water Supply                          5.47      0.37        1.23      1.42         0.49       8.97
Percentage of Irrigation Requirements Met (%)
Present Situation                              94.1      103.0       86.4       92.4         96.8      93.2
Future Situation - Small Farmers
Future Situation - Small Farmers
Without Project (STWs closed)               67.5      86.9        70.8      63.9         89.7       69.0
With Project  (STWs transferred)  f/    94.1         103.0        86.4      92.4         96.8       93.7
Future Situation - Large Farmers
Without Project  (STWs closed) S/           94.1     103.0        86.4      92.4         96.8       93.2
With Project  (STWs transferred)  f/    94.1         103.0        86.4      92.4         96.8       93.7
Shoikot-Kamalia area.
O'      Calculated using CROPWAT.
Irrigation Requirement at watercourse head are estimated using 57 percent delivery and application efficiency.
d:r     The reported SCARP Tube-Well (STW) water supply is from log-book data, while estimated is based on utilization
rates collected by the SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA.
e/      Surface water supply plus estimated STW water supply plus PTW water supply
fV      Assumed that pumpage would be the same after transfer of STWs as in the present situation.
g/      Assumed that large farmers would increase pumpage from Private Tube-Wells (PTWs) to replace water supply lost
due to clo-;ure of STWs.



Annex 2
-60-                                            Page I of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 1: Divestment of SCARP Tubewells
(In Fresh Groundwater Areas)
Water-      SCARP         Community
courses    Tubewells   Tubewells
SCARP II                2,853      2,280           4,069
Shahpur                   239        258             200
SCARP III Rangpur         823        593              715
SCARP IV                1,250      1,001           1,305
SCARP V                   101         101              71
(Shorkot Kamalia)
Total                   5,266      4,233           6,360
Table 2:Divestment of SCARP Tubewells under different modes
Transfer                    Modify                      New                  Total
Total                      Total                       Total    CTW
Capacity  Capacity          Capacity Capacity           Capacity Capacity Capacity
Number   (cfa)      (cfe)    Number   (cfs)    (cfs)    Number   (cfs)    (cfs)    (cfs)
SCARP II                 57      4.00      228    1,050      1.50    1,575    2,962     1.50    4,443    6,246
Shahpur                  50      1.50       75      110      1.20      132       40     1.50        60      267
SCARP III Rangpur        15      3.50       53      200      1.50      300      500     1.50       750    1,103
SCARP IV                 25      4.00      100      263      1.50      395    1,017     1.50    1,526    2,020
SCARP V                   3      1.50        5       20      1.50       30       48     1.50        72      107
(Shorkot Kamalia)
Total                   150                460    1,643              2,432    4,567              6,851    9,742
Table 3: Unit Investment Cost for Community Tubewells under Different Modes of Transfer
Transfer 1/         Modified 2/              New 3/
Electrical       Diesel      Diesel
3 Cusecs     -------- 1.5 Cusecs -----------
Equipment and Material
Borehole Construction                    -              -           -          17.5
Engine/Motor                             -           14.0         16.0         16.0
Electrical Fittings                      -             5.0          -            -
Centrifugal Pump                         -             6.0         6.0          6.0
Suction and Delivery Pipes               -             8.5         8.5         10.5
Electrical Connection 4/               12.0           12.0                       -
Pump House/Discharge box                 -             2.0         2.0          9.0
Minor Works                             1.0             -           -            -
Sub-total         13.0           47.5        32.5         59.0
Labor Costs
Skilled                                  -              -           -            -
Unskilled                               2.0            8.0         6.5          8.0
Subtotal          2.0            8.0         6.5          8.0
Total        15.0           55.5         39.0        67.0
1/      STWs taken over by farmers without significant modifications,  including a number
of 1 cusec STWs in SCAP Shahpur.
2/      STWs takenover by farmers after modification, with replacement of pump and motor.
3/      New tubewells setup by farmers' associations.
4/      Deposit for electricity connection.



-61-                                                    Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 4: Government Staff for O&M Of SCARP Tubewells
Basic Pay Scale           Years of Service
0-10    >10 <= 15    >15 <= 25 Above 25                Total
SCARP II
I to   5            815            701         1,345         301          3,162
6 to 10              36            106            211         48            401
11 to 15              14             16             44          22             96
16                             1              5          2              8
1-7             3              4              4          1             12
18                             1              1                         2
19                                            2                         2
20                             1                                        1
Sub-total            868            830          1,612        374          3,684
Shahpur
1 to   5             67            239            213         10            529
6 to 10               7             30             49           6            92
11 to 15               4               1            10           6             21
16                                            2                         2
17              1              1              2                         4
18                             1                                        1
Sub-total             79            272            276          22           649
SCARP III  (Rangpur Unit)
1 to  5             103             63            156         56            378
6 to 10             125            104            117        101            447
11 to 15                5            10             15         32             62
16                             1                                        1
17                                                                      0
18                                            2                         2
19                                            1                         1
Sub-total            233            178            291        189            891
SCARP IV
1 to   5            185            315            649        316         1,465
6 to 10              12             90             40         42            184
11 to 15               3              4             28         41             76
16              2              2              6          1             11
17              2              2              3          2              9
18                                            4                         4
19                                            5          2              7
20                             1              1          3              5
sub-total            204            414            736        407          1,761
SCARP V
1 to  5              23             50              5          5             83
6 to 10               4              3              4           1            12
11 to 15                               2              1                         3
16              6              4              6          2             18
17                             2              2          2              6
18                                            2          1              3
19                                            1                         1
20                                            1                         1
Sub-total             33             61             22          11           127
TOTAL
1 to  5          1,193          1,368          2,368         688          5,617
6 to 10             184            333            421        198          1,136
11 to 15              26             33             98        101            258
16              8              8             19          5             40
17              6              9             11          5             31
18                             2              9          1             12
19                                            9          2             11
20                             2              2          3              7
TQtal              1,417          1,755          2,937      1,003          7,112
Percent               20             25             41          14           100



-62-                                              Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 5: Cost of Watercourse Improvements
Fresh Groundwater areas (15 percent of total length)
l       Estimated Materials and Costs
Bricks                                             000 no           161.5   1.2      193.8
Cement                                            bags             605      0.2      121.0
Sand                                               cu m              84     0.2       16.8
Nakkas                                            no                 40     0.2        8.0
Sub- total                                                                           339.6
2.      Labor Cost                                                                           Skilled
Unskilled        (masons)
Earthen Improvement (000 Rs)                                       68.0                 -
(4250 meters 0.2 man days (md)/meter @ 80/m)
Renovation of section to be lined                                  30.0                 -
(750 meters, 0.5md/m i Rs8O/md)
Installation of 40 nakkas Xf Rs. 150 each                           3.3                2.7
Construction of 5 culverts                                           1.5               1.5
Construction of lined section 750 meters                           17.0               39.4
( 75 /meter)
Construction of 0.2 animal wallow a4,000 each                        0.4               0.4
Sub-total                                                          120.2              44.0
3.      Cost Sharing                                                (000 Rupees)
Farmers                Government       Total
Associations
Material Costs                              101.9                  237.7            339.6
Skilled Labor                                44.0                                     44.0
Unskilled Labor                             120.0                                   120.0
Total cost                                  265.9                  237.7            503.6
Percent of total cost                        53%t                   47t             100t
Saline Groundwater areas (30 percent of total length)
1.      Estimated Materials and Costs
Bricks                                             000 no          298.0   1.2      357.6
Cement                                            bags             1,117   0.2      223.4
Sand                                              cu m             155.0   0.2        31.0
Nakkas                                            no                40      0.2        8.0
Sub-total                                                                           620.0
2.      Labor Cost                                                                           Skilled
Unskilled        (masons)
Earthen Improvement (000 Rs)                                       56.0                 -
(3,500 meters 0.2 man days (md)/meter @ 80/m)
Renovation of section to be lined                                  60.0                 -
(1,500 meters, 0.Smd/m @ Rs8o/md)
Installation of 40 nakkas @ Rs. 150 each                            3.3                2.7
Construction of 5 culverts                                           1.5               1.5
Construction of lined section 1,500 meters                         39.4              73.1
(@ 75 /meter)
Construction of 0.2 animal wallow @4,000 each                        0.4               0.4
Sub-total                                                          160.6              77.7
3.      Cost Sharing                                                (000 Rupees)
Farmers                Government       Total
Associations                              _
Material Costs                              186.0                  434.0            620.0
Skilled Labor                                77.7                                     77.7
Unskilled Labor                             160.6                                   160.6
Total cost                                  424.3                  434.0            858.3
Percent of total cost                        49t                    51t             100t
Lined section dimensions:         depth 0.60 meters(m); width 0.60 m; wall thickness 23 cm;
floor width 1.26 meters; floor thickness 7 cm.
One animal wallow per five watercourses.



Annex 2
-63-                                          Page 4 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 6: Composition and Cost Estimates Field and Area Teams
for Watercourse Improvements
Field Team
Staff Salaries and Allowances (Rs per year)
Number  Basic    Basic  Allowances  Total
Pay Scale Pay
Water Management Specialist            1   17+SP   48,084    23,694   71,778
Water Management Officer              1    17       46,284    23,145   69,429
Agriculture Officer                    1    17      46,284    23,145   69,429
Community Development Officer         1    17       46,284    23,145   69,429
Supervisor                            4    11       82,800    44,748  127,548
Field Assistant                       2    6/9    34,560    19,296   53,856
Rodman                                6      1      89,640    51,570  141,210
Beldar/helper                         2      1      29,880    18,750   48,630
Driver                                1    4/6    16,320    10,212   26,532
Total                                             440,136   237,705  677,841
Operating Expenditure (Rupees per year)
Machinary, Equipment Furniture & Fixtures          24,000
Transport                                         250,000
Communication                                      60,000
Utilities                                          35,000
Office Rent and Taxes                              50,000
Office Stationary & Printing                       17,000
Publicity Material                                 10,000
Other Contingencies                                10,000
Total                                             456,000
Area Team
Staff Salaries and Allowances (Rs per year)
Basic   Basic                       Allowances                   Total
Pay     Pay   Medical   House    Convey  Washing Total  Pay+Allow
Scale                       Rent        ance + Dress             ances
Water Management Specialist    17+SP   48,084                 21,378    2,316            23,694   71,778
Water Management Officer           17      46,284             20,829    2,316            23,145   69,429
Agriculture Officer                17      46,284             20,829    2,316            23,145   69,429
Community Development Officer   17         46,284             20,829    2,316            23,145   69,429
Supervisor                         11      20,700      720      9,315    1,152           11,187   31,887
Field Assistant                    6/9    17,280       720     7,776    1,152             9,648   26,928
Rodman                              1      14,940      720      6,723    1,152            8,595   23,535
Beldar/helper                       1      14,940      720     6,723    1,152    780   9,375   24,315
Driver                             4/6    16,320       720     7,560    1,152    780  10,212   26,532
Total                                     271,116   3,600   121,962   15,024  1,560 142,146  413,262
Operating Expenditures of Area Teams (Rupees per year)
Machinary, Equipment Furniture & Fixtures          40,000
Transport                                         250,000
Communication                                      70,000
Utilities                                          50,000
Office Rent and Taxes                              70,000
Office Stationary & Printing                       55,000
Publicity Material                                 25,000
Other Contingencies                                10,000
Total                                             570,000



-64-                                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 7: Lining of Irrigation Channels in Saline areas of SCARP 11
Section Proposed for Lining  Cost         Cost
Canal Name                   CCA       AFS       From          To   Length  million Rs/acre
Cusecs    Feet        Feet   000 Ft  Rupees  of CCA
A.  Lower Jehlum Canal/
Northern Branch
1.  Thatta Umra Dy.           3,090      6.7         0     4,400        4.4     1.041      337
2.  Jhanda Dy.               14,330    38.0          0    56,600       56.6   29.276   2,043
a.  Ghori Mr.            1,685      4.0        0    10,002       10.0    2.059   1,222
3.  Sobhi Dy.                 8,817    23.0          0    44,150      44.2   17.334    1,966
a.  Haria Mr.            1,322      3.0        0      7,150       7.2    1.376   1,041
4.  Rurala Dy.                8,113    21.0          0    29,000       29.0   10.233   1,261
5.  Mallowal Dy.              8,541    37.0          0    24,200      24.2   12.647   1,481
a.  Bhochera Mr.         3,342      9.0        0    16,822       16.8    4.464   1,336
b.  Hayat Mr.            1,857      5.0        0      8,500       8.5     1.908   1,027
6.  Chitraur Dy.              7,085    17.7          0    26,312       26.3     8.648   1,221
7.  Mangwana Dy.              9,099    32.0          0    29,800       29.8   15.292   1,681
a.  Kalyar Mr.           3,505      8.9        0    12,500       12.5    3.314       946
b.  Lakhuana Mr.         3,007      7.0        0    20,170       20.2    5.005   1,664
Sub-Total               73,793                    289,606.0      289.6     112.6   1,526
B.  Lower Jehlum Canal/
Southern Branch
1.  Killa Mr.                 2,445    10.0          0    13,440       13.4    3.713   1,519
2.  Tandlian Mr.              2,200      9.0         0    13,000       13.0    3.416   1,553
3.  Wasuana Mr.               3,178    13.0          0    22,290      22.3    6.882   2,166
4.  Chokera Dy.               5,500  118/73  49,970    78,200          28.2   20.509   3,729
a.  Pindi Mr.            1,712      7.0        0      4,800       4.8    1.179       689
b.  Assian Mr.          6,357    26.0          0    24,300       24.3   10.853   1,707
5.  Hujian Dy.                2,507  207/50  83,285   111,473         28.2   15.770   6,290
a.  Jaspal Mr.           6,268    20.0         0    27,300       27.3     9.519   1,519
b.  Tangu Mr.           3,761    12.0          0    15,873       15.9    4.732   1,258
c.  Murillan Mr.        3,134      10.0        0    19,250       19.3     5.419   1,729
6.  Malke Br.                   905   50/10  48,000    63,224         15.2    4.206   4,648
7.  Mian Mr.                  1,680      6.5        0      8,720        8.7    2.080   1,238
8.  Deowal Dy                16,150   80/51  26,000       93,024      67.0   35.476   2,197
Sub-Total               55,797                    494,894.0    287.6    123.8   2,218
Total                 129,590                                   577.2    236.4   1,824
176.1 km



Annex 2
-65-                                    Page 6 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 8: Equipment to be Procured under the Project
Base Cost (Rs 000)
Item                            Unit   Number       Unit       Total
Cost        Cost
A.     Project Management Unit
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Computers   (Pentium)            No.       1       100.0       100.0
2.    Laser Printers                   No.       1        75.0        75.0
3.    Computer Software                Lump Sum                      100.0
4.    Fascimile Machines               No.       1        30.0        30.0
5.    Audio Visual Equipment           Set       1       250.0       250.0
6.    Drawing Instruments              Lump Sum                      100.0
7.    UPS for computers                No.       5        40.0       200.0
8.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                       1,230.0
Sub-total                                                    2,085.0
Survey and Flow Measurement equipment
9.    Current Meters                   No.       2       100.0       200.0
10.    Stop watch                       No.       6         1.0         6.0
11.    Meter Flumes                     No.       4         6.0        24.0
Sub-total                                                      230.0
Transport
12.    Medium 4x4 field Vehicles        No.       2    1,700.0    3,400.0
13.    Double-cab Pick up 4x4           No.       2    1,600.0    3,200.0
14.    Comunit van 15-20 seater         No.       1    1,400.0    1,400.0
Sub-total (vehicles)                       5                 8,000.0
B.     Community Development and Support Group
Core Team at Headquarters
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Computers (Pentium)              No.       2       100.0       200.0
2.    Laser Printers                   No.       2        75.0       150.0
3.    Type Writers                     No.       1        20.0        20.0
4.    Fascimile Machines               No.       1        30.0        30.0
5.    Plain Paper Phoptocopier         No.       1       180.0       180.0
6.    Air conditioners                 No.       2        25.0        50.0
7.    UPS                              No.       2        40.0        80.0
8.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                         300.0
Sub-total                                                    1,010.0
Transport
9.    Small 4x4 field Vehicles         No.       2       610.0    1,220.0
10.   Cars                             No.       1       750.0       750.0
Sub-total                                  3                 1,970.0
Field Office (Social Coordinators and Organizers)
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Computers   (Pentium)            No.       4       100.0       400.0
2.    Printers                         No.       4        30.0       120.0
3.    Fascimile Machines               No.       4        30.0       120.0
4.    Plain Paper Phoptocopier         No.       4       180.0       720.0
5.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                       1,300.0
Sub-total                                                    2,660.0



Annex 2
-66-                                    Page 7 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 8: Equipment to be Procured under the Project (Contd..)
Base Cost (Rs 000)
Item                           Unit   Number       Unit       Total
Cost        Cost
Transport
6.    Small field Vehicles             No.     12       610.0    7,320.0
7.    Motorcycles                      No.     50        70.0    3,500.0
8.    Bicycles                         No.     25         3.0        75.0
Sub-total   (Vehicles)                   62                10,895.0
C.     Development of Groundwater Regulatory Framework
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Plain Paper Phoptocopier         No.       1      180.0       180.0
2.    Computers  (Pentium)             No.       3      100.0       300.0
3.    Laser Printers                   No.       3       7S.0       225.0
4.    Computer Software                Lump Sum                     300.0
5.    Fascimile Machines               No.       1       30.0        30.0
6.    Air conditioners                 No.       3       25.0        75.0
7.    GIS Equipment, digitizers
and software                     Lump sum                     300.0
8.    UPS                              No.       3       40.0       120.0
9.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                        300.0
Sub- total                                                  1,830.0
Survey and Flow, water levels and salinity measurement equipment
10.    Dumpy Levels                     No.       2       50.0       100.0
I1.    Staff Rods                       No.       4        4.0        16.0
12.    Water Level Recorder             No.      4        70.0       280.0
13.    Water stage recorders            No.      4       150.0       600.0
14.    Observation wells                No.   1000         0.5       500.0
15.    Neutran Probes                   No.       2       90.0       180.0
16.    Current Meters                   No.       2      150.0       300.0
17.    Stop watchs                      No.       6        1.0         6.0
18.    Potentiometers, salinity
measurement equipment            Lump sum                      50.0
19.    Meter Flumes                    No.       4         6.0        24.0
Sub-total                                                   2,056.0
Transport
20.    Large 4x4 field Vehicles         No.       2    2,700.0    5,400.0
21.    Small field Vehicles             No.       2      610.0    1,220.0
22.    Saloon Cars                      No.       2      800.0    1,600.0
23.    Double-cab Pick up 4x4           No.       2    1,600.0    3,200.0
Sub-total                                 8                11,420.0
D.     Watercourse Improvements in Fresh Areas
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Computers   (Pentium)            No.       8      100.0       800.0
2.    Computer Sofwater                Lump sum                     240.0
3.    Printers                         No.      2        80.0       160.0
4.    Fascimile Machines               No.       2       40.0        80.0
5.    Phoptocopier                    No.       3       180.0       540.0
6.    Audio Visual Equipment           Set       2      100.0       200.0
7.    Electric water cooler            No.      4        20.0        80.0
8.    Calculator                       No.     10         2.0        20.0
9.    Electric Typewriter             No.       2        20.0        40.0
10.    Manual Typewriter                No.       8       15.0       120.0
11.   UPS                               No.       8       40.0       320.0
12.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                        400.0
Sub-total                                                   3,000. 0



-67-                                       Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 8: Equipment to be Procured under the Project (Cont...)
Base Cost (Rs 000)
Item                            Unit   Number       Unit        Total
Cost        Cost
Survey/Field Equiment
13.    Broad Crested Flume               No.      80          5.0       400.0
14.    Automatic Stage Recorder          No.       4         50.0       200.0
15.    Level Set                         No.      40         25.0    1,000.0
16.    Tractor                           No.       4        400.0     1,600.0
17.    Pumping sets                      No.       6         75.0       450.0
Sub-total                                                      3,650.0
Transport
18.   Medium 4x4 field Vehicles         No.       4      1,700.0     6,800.0
19.   Smiall 4 x 4 Field Vehicles    No.         20        610.0   12,200.0
20.   Double Cabin Pick 4 x 4           No.       4      1,600.0    6,400.0
21.   Saloon Car                        No.       1        800.0       800.0
22.   Motorcycles                       No.      20         50.0     1,000.0
23.   Bicycles                          No.      40          3.0       120.0
Sub-total(Vehicles)                       29                 27,320.0
E.     Watercourse Improvements in Saline Areas
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Computers (pentium)               No.       2       100.0       100.0
2.    Computer Sofwater                 Lump sum                       60.0
3.    Printers                         No.        2        40.0        80.0
4.    Airconditioner                    No.       2        25.0        50.0
5.    Phoptocopier                      No.       1       100.0       100.0
6.    Calculators                       No.      10         1.0        10.0
7.    Typewriter                        No.       4        15.0        60.0
8.    UPS                               No.       2        40.0        80.0
9.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                          300.0
Sub-total                                                       840.0
Survey/Field Equiment
10.   Broad Crested Flume               No.      20          5.0       100.0
11.   Automatic Stage Recorder          No.       1         50.0        50.0
12.   Level Set                         No.      10         25.0       250.0
13.   Tractor                           No.       2        400.0       800.0
14.   Pumping sets                     No.        2         75.0       150.0
Sub-total                                                      1,350.0
Transport
15.   Medium 4x4 field Vehicles         No.       1     1,700.0    1,700.0
16.   Double Cabin Pick up              No.       1      1,600.0    1,600.0
17.   Small field Vehicles             No.        4        610.0    2,440.0
18.   Bi.cycles                         No.      10          3.0        30.0
Sub-total                                   6                  5,770.0



-68-                                      Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 8: Equipmellt to be Procured under the Project (Cont...)
Base Cost (Rs 000)
Item                           Unit   Number       Unit       Total
Cost        Cost
G.     Canal Improvements Saline areas (includes items for Fresh areas)
Office Equipment and Furniture
1.    Plain Paper Phoptocopier         No.       2      180.0       360.0
2.    Computers                        No.       4      100.0       400.0
3.    Laser Printers                   No.       2       75.0       150.0
4.    Computer Software                Lump Sum                     100.0
5.    Fascimile Machines               No.       1       30.0        30.0
6.    Air conditioners                 No.       2       25.0         50.0
7.    UPS                              No.       4       40.0       160.0
8.    Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                        350.0
Sub-total                                                   1,600.0
Survey and Flow Measurement Equipment
9.    Levels with stand                No.       5       50.0       250.0
10.    Leveling Stands                  No.      10         2.0        20.0
11.    Plane Tables                     No.       2         2.0         4.0
12.    Theodolite                       No.       1      300.0       300.0
13.    Telescopic Alidad                No.       3         2.0         6.0
14.    Staff Rods                       No.       2         4.0         8.0
15.    Magnetic Compass                 No.       2         1.0         2.0
16.    Binoculars                       No.       2         2.0         4.0
17.    Invar Steel tapes                No.     20          0.5        10.0
18.    Fibre glass boat with oars    No.          2        50.0       100.0
19.    Life Bouys                       No.       4          .5         2.0
20.    Current Meters                   No.       2      100.0        200.0
21.    Wire rope 1/4 and 1/8            Rft    400           .025      10.0
22.    Meter flumes for watercourses
(parschel/cut throat)         Set       3        6.0         18.0
23.    Velocity rods                    Set       3       1.0           3.0
24.    Echo Sounders                    Set       1     200.0        200.0
25.    Sounding rods                    Set       4       2.0           8.0
26.    Stop watchs                      No.       5       1.0           5.0
Sub-total                                                   1,150.0
Transport
27.    Large 4x4 field Vehicles         No.       1    2,700.0    2,700.0
28.    Medium 4x4 field Vehicles        No.       4    1,700.0    6,800.0
29.    Small field Vehicles             No.       3      610.0    1,880.0
30.    Double-cab Pick up 4x4           No.       4    1,600.0    6,400.0
Sub-total                                12                17,780.0
Total
Equipment                                                         21,461.0
Vehicles                                       125                78,430.0
Motorcycles                                     70                 4,500.0
Bicycles                                        75                   225.0
Total                                                            104,616.0



Annex 3
-69-                                  Page I of 12
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Terms of Reference
For
Project Implementation Assistance Consultants
1. INTRODUCTION
1.            The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) for a Credit to meet part of the cost of the proposed Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development. The project is being implemented by the Government of Punjab (GOPunjab). A Project
Management Unit (PMU) in the Planning & Development Board of GOPunjab is responsible for overall
project management and coordination. The Punjab Irrigation Department (PID) and the Directorate
General of Water Management (OFWM) in the Agricultural Departments are the co-implementing
agencies. These terms of reference are for consultancy services in various fields for providing
implementation assistance to the PMU, PID, and OFWM.
2.     Project Objectives.   The overall objectives of the PGWD Project are to increase the scope and
productivity of Punjab's irrigation and drainage subsector and increase farmer's incomes. Its specific
objectives are to: (a) redefine govemment's role in groundwater development with a greater role for the
private sector; (b) develop a regulatory framework and a monitoring program to ensure sustainable use
of the groundwater resources; (c) develop sustainable farmers organizations (FOs) which can efficiently
operate and maintain groundwater irrigation, improve surface irrigation, and establish a base for
participation in the management of the canal systems; (d) rationalize public expenditure on O&M of the
irrigation and drainage systems as well as increase the recovery of public expenditures on irrigation
infrastructure; and (e) avoid environmental hazard of saline water intrusion into fresh groundwater
aquifers.
3.     Project Description.  The proposed five-year (FY97-2001) project would cover the fresh
groundwater areas (FGW) of SCARP 11 (including Shahpur), SCARP III (Rangpur Unit), SCARP IV and
SCARP V (Shorkot Kamnalia) located in administrative divisions of Sargodha, Gujranwala, Faisalabad, and
Lahore. It also includes saline groundwater (SGWs) areas within or at the boundaries of FGW areas. The
gross area is about 1.455 million ha of which about 1.193 million ha have FGW, while the CCA is about
1.292 million hectares of which about 1.068 million hectares have FGW. The major project components
are: (a) privatization of SCARP tubewells (STWs); (b) development of groundwater monitoring and
regulatory framework; (c) improvement of irrigation facilities in fresh groundwater areas, including
improvement of watercourses and lining of minor canals; (d) prevention of saline groundwater intrusion
into fresh aquifers, including rehabilitation of drainage tubewells, and lining of watercourses in saline
groundwater areas; (e) monitoring and evaluation; (f) technical assistance and training; (g) project
management and supervision.



Annex 3
-70-                                  Page 2 of 12
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
4.            The project requires multi-/interdisciplinary consultancy services in the following four
categories:
A.    Project management support;
B.    Community mobilization and formation of farmer organizations (FOs) for privatizing
STWs, and promoting farmer participation in canal lining;
C.    Engineering services for surveys, design and construction supervision of civil works (canal
lining, watercourse improvement, and rehabilitation of drainage tubewells), including role
of the "Engineer" in contract management; and
D.    Preparation of groundwater regulatory framework.
A. Project Management Support
5.            This includes assistance to the Project Director (PD) PMU and other core staff of the PMU
for, inter alia: (i) procurement planning and processing and ensuring compliance with IDA procurement
guidelines at all stages (receipt of bids, evaluation and award of contracts); (ii) maintenance of
consolidated project accounts and arranging for timely annual audits; (iii) preparation of consolidated
annual work plans for all project components; (iv) preparation of annual budgetary requests; (v)
establishment of an MIS, and preparation of periodic progress reports and project implementation
completion report; (vi) preparation and implementation of training programs; and (vii) preparation of
project supervision plans for the P&D Board. These services would be provided by the Project Manager
of the consultants with inputs of MIS and Accounting and Financial Management Specialists and
support staff. Total input is estimated at 60 staff months (SMs).
B. Community Mobilization for Divestment of SCARP tubewells and Canal Lining
6.       The proposed project will privatize approximately 4,200 SCARP tubewells (STWs)'. The
project will support the formation of FOs, and, through them, the establishment of privately operated
community tubewells (CTWs) to replace govemment-operated STWs throughout the project area. The
objective of this project activity is to develop FOs that can efficiently operate and maintain surface and
groundwater resources for irrigated agriculture in Punjab on a sustainable basis. To achieve this objective,
the project will support the development of a social mobilization program within the Project Management
Unit (PMU). The PMU will have overall responsibility for the project's social mobilization efforts
through a Community Development Support Group (CDSG) recruited as consultancy services. The CDSG
team will consist of: (a) core staff responsible for CDSG field staff training and management, and social
mobilization program coordination; and (b) field staff of Social Organizers (SOs) working with the help
of NGOs and village level social activists to mobilize farmer participation in project activities. CDSG will
have responsibility for the privatization of approximately 2,700, or two-thirds of the STWs targeted for
privatization. The CDSG will also be responsible for assisting the PID in promoting farmer
participation in canal lining, and watch and ward as well as operation and maintenance (O&M) of
Of which 2,458 STWs are located in SCARPs II and Shahpur, 1,001 in SCARP IV, 570 in SCARP III (Rangpur unit), and 101 in
SCARP V.



-71-                                       Annex 3
Page 3 of 12
drainage tubewell rehabilitated under the project. The Directorate of OFWM will be responsible for
privatizing the remaining 1,500 STWs in conjunction with a program of project-supported watercourse
improvement. The PMU will have the overall responsibility for coordination and supervision of all STW
privatization and FO development activities supported by the project, including those undertaken by
OFWM.
7.            The CDSG will report to the PD PMU through the Director (Project Management and
Community Development) of the PMU. It will comprise of international and national consultants and
provide management, technical and implementation services in support of the project's social mobilization
program. The consultancy team will undertake two interrelated activities: (a) to assist the PMU in the
management and coordination of the project's social mobilization efforts, including the training and
supervision of field-level technical and support staff, and coordination of field activities with those of
OFWM; and (b) to mobilize farmer participation in the privatization of STWs, and in the improved
management of surface and groundwater resources. The CDSG will also be responsible for engaging local
Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) for mobilizing farmer participation in the project.
8.     Management, Coordination and Training Activities.         A core group of consultants within
the CDSG will provide management, coordination and training services for the social mobilization
program of the project. This core group will:
a.     develop and field test a standardized model for the formation of FOs, and ensure its
adoption by all agencies involved in the project's social mobilization efforts (i.e.,
consultants, NGOs and OFWM)2;
b.     develop and implement a comprehensive training program  for all social
mobilization field staff in the principles of participatory community development,
and in appropriate methods for mobilizing farmer participation in FOs;
c.     design and supervise Watercourse Assessment Surveys to be carried out over the entire
project area to collect baseline data on socio-economic, agronomic, hydrological and
infrastructure conditions prevailing in the watercourse CCA served by each STW targeted
for transition;
d.     prepare coordinated and detailed annual work plans for the deployment of CDSG field
staff throughout the project area, and the achievement of STW transition and FO
formation targets;
e.     provide regular supervision to all CDSG field staff during the initial phases of project
implementation, and provide on-going guidance to the project's supervisory Social
Coordinators in the management of the field personnel under their supervision;
f.    in coordination with the PMU, develop standardized project monitoring and evaluation
procedures and general reporting formats for documenting project performance;
g.     develop a set of criteria for the monitoring and evaluation of project impact in building
sustainable FOs that can be integrated into the overall project MIS.
2   The model developed under the Second SCARP Transition Project would be used as a starting point and further refinements
would be made.



-72-                                      Annex 3
Page 4 of 12
9.     Social Mobilization Activities.    The main objective of these activities is to establish viable
FOs that would install and subsequently operate and maintain CTWs. FOs would have the option to: (i)
takeover the SCARP tubewells as such and operate them as community tubewell (CTWs); (ii) modify
STWs and run them as CTW; (iii) install new CTWs; or (iv) replace the STWs' pumpage with existing
or new private tubewells (PTWs). The project would provide one time financial assistance of Rs. 20,000
for modified and new CTWs only. This amount represents approximately 30 percent of the capital cost
of a new CTW. The remaining cost will be borne by the FO membership. For the transferred STWs the
FOs would be charged Rs. 10,000 per STW. The project would support installation of one to two CTWs
on each watercourse (W/C), with a maximum of four CTWs per STWs (only for those STWs that serve
more than one watercourse). The discharge capacities of CTWs would range from 1-2 cusecs (average
1.5 cusecs). The project would have built in safeguards to ensure that the total capacity of CTWs, and
existing and new PTWs, does not exceed the present operational capacity of the STWs. The CTWs would
be located along the communal watercourse, on public land or on the land purchased/leased by the FOs.
The CDSG will undertake the following activities:
a.     carry out Watercourse Assessment Surveys in the entire project area, and make
recommendations to the PMU regarding the location and scheduling of project
implementation activities;
b.     deploy trained Social Organizers throughout the project area to mobilize farmer support
for the STW privatization and canal lining, and assist farmers in forming viable FOs and
installing CTWs;
c.     provide follow-on "after-care" services to FOs to ensure organizational sustainability. and
provide technical assistance in tubewell operation and maintenance, improved water
management and improved agronomic practices;
d.     coordinate and provide management supervision of all social mobilization activities
implemented as sub-projects by NGOs;
e.     provide regular progress reports on STW transition and FO formation efforts to the PMU.
10.    Organization and Composition of CDSG.   Theconsultantscore staffwould consistof aTeam
Leader3, a Social Mobilization Specialist and a Training Specialist. The core consultants will be based
in Lahore and housed in the offices of the PMU. In addition field offices of the CDSG will be established
at Mandi Bahauddin and Sargodha to serve the SCARP 11 and Shahpur areas, at Garh Maharajah to serve
SCARP III (Rangpur Unit) and SCARP V (Shorkot Kamalia), and at Sharqpur for the SCARP IV area.
Other core staff will comprise a Field Operations Management team, based in Lahore, four Watercourse
Assessment Survey Teams, and four social mobilization field teams whose size will be expanded as project
activities increase in geographical scope. In addition to support staff, each field team will typically
include: one Social Coordinator (SC), with responsibilities for managing the field office; Technical
Coordinators (TCs); Social Organizers (SOs), After-care Social Organizers (ASOs), and a Watercourse
Assessment Survey Team.
A   The Project Manager of the consultants team will also perform the functions of the CDSG teamn leader.



Annex 3
-73-                                  Page 5 of 12
11.    Consultants' Headquarters Based Staff
a.     Project Manager/CDSG Team Leader (45 staff months). The Project Manager will
have overall management responsibility for the consultants team, and providing
management support to the PMU; the formulation and implementation of the CDSG
annual work plans; supervision of the CDSG core consultants; and coordination of CDSG
activities with OFWM and other relevant government departments. The Team Leader will
report to the Project Director/PMU. The Project Manager should possess a Masters
degree, or its equivalent, in the social sciences; a minimum of 10 years of progressively
responsible experience in the management of rural development projects, preferably in
South Asia; demonstrated ability to work with host country government officials, technical
field staff, NGO representatives and farmers in their villages; demonstrated familiarity
with the principles and practices of participatory community development; demonstrated
familiarity with irrigated agriculture and related water management issues; knowledge of
project management inforiimationi systems; and fluency in spoken and written English.
b.     Deputy Project Manager/Field Operations Manager (60 staff months).  The Field
Operations Manager, and his support staff, will be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of all project field offices and social mobilization field staff. He will report
directly to the CDSP consultant Team Leader. The Field Operations Manager should be
a Senior Irrigation Engineer with at least 10 years of experience in the planning and
management of surface and groundwater development projects in Punjab.
c.     Social Mobilization Specialist (15 staff months). The Social Mobilization Specialist will
be responsible for developing a model for the formation of FOs, and for providing
guidance to all social mobilization field staff in the implementation of this model during
the initial phases of the project. He/she will also be responsible for assisting the Trailing
Specialist in developing an appropriate and effective training program  for social
mobilization field staff. The Social Mobilization Specialist should possess an advanced
degree in Anthropology or Rural Sociology and working experience in South Asia with
projects that promote participatory rural development; demonstrated expertise in rapid
rural appraisal and participatory rural appraisal methodologies: experience in the
management and supervision of junior professionals; fluency in spoken and written
English; and working knowledge of local languages.
d.     Training Specialist (5 staff months). The Training Specialist will develop curriculum
and materials for training the social mobilization field staff in the principles of
participatory community development, and appropriate methods for mobilizing farmer
participation in FOs. He/she will also develop training modules for FOs in record keeping
and financial management that can be taught by SOs in the field. The Training Specialist
will organize and facilitate all project start-up training workshops and seminars, and
subsequent refresher courses for project field staff. The Training Specialist wil Ialso work
with the Department of Irrigation and OFWM to develop short introductory courses in
hydrology, irrigation engineering, tubewell mechanics, water resource management and
agronomy for the social mobilization field team members. The Training Specialist should
possess a Masters degree, or its equivalent, in Education or related disciplines; five years
experience in the planning, preparation and facilitation of training workshops and seminars
in developing country contexts; a demonstrated familiarity with the principles and practice
of participatory community development; and fluency in written and spoken English.



_ 7 4 _                                   Annex 3
Page 6 of 12
12.    Consultants Field Staff
a.     Social Coordinators (SCs).   Four SCs are required to train, manage and supervise ten
SOs and five ASOs each. Each SC will be responsible for the day-to-day operation of
his/her CDSG field office, and report directly to the Field Operations Manager. The SCs
will be expected to commence the social mobilization activities of each field office and
gradually turn over the work to the SOs/ASOs under his supervision. The SCs will also
work closely with project management to establish and maintain a system for monitoring
the performance of social mobilization field staff. SCs should hold an Masters degree in
Rural Sociology, or related disciplines, and have three-five years of progressively
responsible experience in rural development projects in Pakistan, preferably in Punjab.
Experience with the supervision of junior professionals and familiarity with ongoing
participatory community development projects in Pakistan, such as the ongoing Second
SCARP Transition Project, the Agha Khan Rural Support Project, and the Mansehra
Village Support Program, is highly desirable.
b.     Technical Coordinators (TCs).      TCs are required to provide technical guidance to
SOs, ASOs and directly to FOs in the selection of tubewell technology, the efficient
management of water resources and the introduction of improved agronomic practices.
A senior Irrigation Engineer (4) with knowledge of tubewell technology, and a senior
Agronomist or Agricultural Extension Specialist (4) will be assigned to each of the CDSG
field teams. Each TC should hold an advanced degree in his/her respective discipline and
have a minimum of five years experience in rural development projects in Punjab.
c.     Social Organizers (SOs).    SOs are required to mobilize farmer participation in STW
privatization. SOs will be responsible for the day-to-day support of FOs in every phase
of their formation from their organization and registration to the installation and operation
of their CTWs. SOs should hold a Masters degree in Rural Sociology, or related
disciplines, and have a minimum of two years community organization experience
working with villagers in Punjab. Alternatively, five years community organization
experience may be considered in lieu of the requirement for an advanced academic
degree. SOs must be fluent in local languages, highly motivated, willing to work and live
under difficult physical conditions, and be capable of interacting effectively with farmers
and government officials from various departments.
d.     After-care Social Organizers (ASOs).      ASOs are required to support the ongoing
activities of each FO once it has installed a CTW. One ASO will provide support to two
SOs in the formation of FOs. However, the primary responsibilities of the ASO will be
to monitor the performance of each FO according to the conditions of its formation,
provide guidance to FO membership in the maintenance of records and management of
its financial resources, and provide technical support to farmers willing to adopt improved
water management and agronomic practices. ASOs should hold a Masters degree in
Agronomy or Agricultural Extension and have a minimum of two years experience
working in agricultural development in Punjab. Like the SOs, ASOs must be fluent in
local languages, highly motivated, willing to work and live under difficult physical
conditions and capable of interacting effectively with farmers and government officials
from various departments.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 12
e.     Watercourse Assessment Survey Teams.    The survey teams will conduct a baseline
survey of the watercourse of each STW targeted for transition under the project. One
team will be attached to each CDSG field office under the supervision of the senior
Irrigation Engineer/Technical Coordinator. A field office SO will accompany the team
and participate in the survey of each watercourse for which that SO will be responsible.
The survey team will be composed of a qualified Irrigation Engineers, an Agricultural
Economist and two Surveyors. Draftsmen attached to each CDSG field office will
prepare detailed maps of each targeted watercourse to be used in the planning and
monitoring of social mobilization activities.
13.          The deployment of field staff will be staggered throughout an individual cluster. An SO
or ASO will participate in each Watercourse Assessment Survey conducted in his/her cluster and return
to previously surveyed watercourses to promote FO formation or service existing FOs on a regular basis.
TCs will be called upon to support FOs at any point in the transition or post-transition process.  This
process will continue until the transition stage in all targeted watercourses in a cluster has been completed,
at which point the SO will move on to his/her next designated cluster to continue the process.
14.           Field staff capacity and farmer receptivity will both factor significantly in the timing and
success of CDSG field operations. The size and deployment of field staff will also be influenced by the
extent to which NGOs are engaged in field implementation of CDSG social mobilization activities. For
these reasons, the CDSG's overall field staff requirement presented below is intended to be indicative of
the range of services required. The shortlisted Consultants are encouraged to suggest alternative staffing
and field implementation strategies to maximize project resources and accelerate the achievement of
project targets.
Position/Discipline                              No.x Months  Staff Months
Project Manager/CDSG Team Leader                 I x 45             45.
Deputy Team Leader/Field Operations Manager      I x 60             60.
Social Mobilization Specialist                   I x 15             15.
Training Specialist                              I x 5               5.
Social Coordinators                              4 x 60            240.
Technical Coordinators                           8 x 60            480.
SOs/ASOs                                         45x 60          2,700.
Irrigation Engineers                             4x 60             240.
Agricultural Economists                          4 x 60            240.
Surveyors                                        8x 60             480.
Canal patwaris                                   8 x 60            480.
Draftsmen/AutoCAD                                4 x 60            240.
Computer Operators                               4 x 60            240.
15.    Criteria for Selection of NGOs.    The project seeks NGO assistance in the mobilization of
farmer participation in STW transition, in the formation of FOs, and in the installation of CTWs. The
proposing Social Mobilization Consultants will be encouraged to form joint-ventures with qualified NGOs
for the implementation of project activities. The PMU will assign responsibilities for social mobilization
in sub-project areas where an NGO is found capable. To be qualified for participation in the project, an
NGO must: (a) be legally registered, and keep standard accounts and annually audited statements of



Annex 3
-76-                                   Page 8 of 12
income and expenditure; (b) be committed to, and involved in, rural development efforts at the community
level in Punjab; (c) have no affiliation with any political party; (d) have adequate numbers of technically
qualified field staff who have experience in promoting participatory community development in the project
area; and (e) be willing to work in coordination with project field staff, and accept supervision from the
management of that field staff in the planning, implementation and reporting of activities undertaken on
behalf of the project.
C. Engineering Services
16.           These services include carrying out surveys, design and construction supervision of civil
works (canal lining, watercourse improvement, and rehabilitation of drainage tubewells), and include
performing the role of the "Engineer" in contract management. These services would be provided by an
Engineering Sub-group (ESG) of the consultants team headed by a team leader.
17.    Services for Watercourse Improvement.    The project involves improvement of about 1,500
watercourses in the FGW areas and 500 on the periphery of FGW and SGW areas. The main task of the
ESG would be to assist the D.G OFWM in implementing this component. The ESG shall provide the
following services to the PMU and D.C OFWM:
a.    reviewing plans and designs for civil works to assure compliance with agreed criteria;
b.    spot checking structtires during installations and checking all completed civil works;
C.     spot checking (a minimum of 20 percent by value) quality of works during construction
and 100 percent after completion and before submission of final withdrawal application;
d.     verifying and certifying quantities and quality of materials procured and civil works
coompleted;
e.     notifying the D.G. OFWM of compliance/non-compliance of completed works with agreed
criteria and standards;
f:     assisting with preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports and relevant sections
of the implementation completion report;
g.     assisting in preparing and processing withdrawal applications for works after consumption
of materials has been verified; facilitating annual audits of these components by furnishing
data required by the auditors; and
h.     assuring that materials have been consumed as reported in store books and PLA books
before final verification and certification of materials and submission of withdrawals
claims; and preparing comprehensive charts to reconcile materials procured with those
installed in watercourses and remaining in stores.
18.    Services for Canal Lining and Rehabilitation of Drainage Facilities. The project provides for
lining of about 25 channels of less than 90 cusec (2.5 m/s) capacity, over a total length of about 156 Km.
In addition, about 35 drainage tubewells would be rehabilitated or replaced with new tubewells. The ESG
will provide the following services to the PID and PMU relating to these components:



-77-                                        Annex 3
Page 9 of 12
a.     carrying out condition surveys covering physical and hydraulic parameters of the canals
to be lined;
b.     establishing farmer organizations at the minor or distributary level prior to undertaking
canal lining [these services will be provided by the CDSG (see para 2.3)];
c.     preparing detailed designs, specifications, bill of quantities, cost estimates and bidding
documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
procurement procedure/guidelines of the World Bank/IDA for works and goods. The
Consultants will ensure compliance with the World Bank/IDA procurement guidelines in
procurement planning, reception of tenders, evaluation and award of contracts;
d.     performing the role of the "Engineer" in contract management as defined in the General
Conditions of Contract of the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement
of Works. These services would include but not limited to supervising the contractor;
certifying monthly payments to contractor(s), valuing and issuing variations to contracts;
awarding extension of time and valuing the compensation events; developing and
implementing an effective construction supervision and quality control regime; and
ensuring timely completion of works; and recommending design modifications on site.
e.     assisting PMU and PID with preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports and
relevant sections of the implementation completion report; and
f      assisting PMU/PID in preparing and processing withdrawal applications for works, and
facilitating annual audits by furnishing data required by auditors.
19.           The following staff inputs are envisaged for ESG's activities:
Position/Discipline     Nos.              Staff Months
ESG Team Leader            1.                  54.
Design Engineer            1.                   9.
Resident Engineers         I.                  36.
Contract Engineer          1.                   3.
Senior Engineers           4.                 216.
Sub-Engineers              4.                 216.
D. Preparation of Groundwater Regulatory Framework
20.          In Punjab, groundwater extractions have been increasing consistently over the last two
decades. As a result, the water tables are falling in some of the fresh groundwater areas. This is a matter
of considerable concern. Over exploitation threatens the quality of the resource --lower level aquifers are
generally more saline, and significant differences of groundwater levels between fresh and saline areas
induce intrusion of saline water.  As the rate of use of groundwater is approaching its potential
availability, determination of groundwater rights (at individual and community level) and regulation of
its use, is essential for sustainable and equitable use of this common resource. The project would support
the development and implementation of a regulatory framework. It would strengthen capacity for
intensive monitoring in critical areas, develop capacity for determining safe yields of aquifers and



-78-                                           Annex 3
Page 10 of 12
allocation of groundwater rights, as well as development and support for the institutional setup for
implementing groundwater regulations in critical areas.
21.            Currently, the SCARPs Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA  monitors the
groundwater aquifers especially in the SCARP areas. SMO's capacity for country wide monitoring would
be strengthened under the National Drainage Program.  The proposed project would strengthen
GOPunjab's capacity for intensive monitoring of the areas identified as critical for groundwater control
on the basis of SMO's general monitoring results. In addition to groundwater monitoring database,
simulation models would be employed in determining the safe yield of aquifers and its allocation by
distributary, watercourse and individual users.  Detailed rules for control and licensing as well as
methodology and institutional setup would be developed. The development work would be completed in
first three years of the project while the institutional setup for enforcement of regulation in critical areas
would be put in place during the remaining two years.
22.    Scope of Work.        The program of developing regulations and their implementation would
consist of three phases; (i) in the first phase, the groundwater management areas will be established based
on the existhig inforination ; (ii) in the second phase, critical areas for groundwater management would
be identified, detailed data collection and monitoring would be carried out in the critical areas, and safe
yields of aquifers and groundwater rights would be determined; and (iii) in the third phase, a procedure
for regulating the groundwater use in each critical area, and institutional arrangemiients would be
developed.
23.    Establishment of Management Areas.           The consultants will complete the following tasks
wvithin tde first year of their assignment:
a.     For ease in management of the groundwater basins, classify aquifers in Punjab in different
Groundwater Management areas, based on existing data, and considerinig behavior and
quality of aquifers, hydrological and meteorological data, topographic and geological
information, canal command areas, surface water application, efficiency of use, and
cropping patterns, etc.;
b.     Develop a database consisting of basic information for each managemenit area and update
it on a continuous basis; and
c.     Identify in each management area the sources of major aquifer recharge as well as
extractions.
24.    Identification of Critical Areas and Establishment of Groundwater Rights.         This shall
involve the following tasks which would be completed during the second year of the project:
a.     In parallel to establishing the Groundwater Management areas, identify critical areas
requiring extensive management;
h.     Develop and calibrate Groundwater models to simulate the groundwater behavior over a
long period including wet and dry cycles;
c.     carry out detailed data collection for calibration of the model, and develop a database for
eventual regulation of groundwater use for the critical areas; and



_79_                                    Annex 3
Page 11 of 12
d.    Using the simulation models and monitoring information, develop proposals for
establishing rights to the groundwater by distributary command area, watercourse
command (chak) and by farm.
25.   Development of Procedures for Regulation and Institutional Structure. The following tasks
would be completed during the third year of the project.
a.    Based on the safe yields of the aquifer in the long run (considering wet and dry cycles),
pattern of groundwater water use in the critical areas, utilization rates of private,
community and public tubewells, estimates safe installed capacity by watercourse
command, as well as by distributaries. (For foreseeable future the regulation will be
based on the installed capacity of the tubewells which will be correlated to the actual
groundwater extractions through empirical studies and simulation models);
b.    develop proposals for a program for licensing the groundwater tubewells with an objective
towards achieving safe installed capacity. (In issuing the tubewell licenses preference will
be give to community tubewells supplying to several users in any chak);
c.    develop proposals for detailed institutional setups for groundwater management in each
management area, according to the type and the severity of the problem;
d.    implement pilots to test and evolve effective methods of groundwater monitoring and
regulation, roles of local and regulating institutions, farmers and their organizations, and
NGOs before refining the regulation procedures; and
e.    develop proposals for any new  legislation that may be required for facilitating
implementation of the regulatory framework.
26.   Estimate of Consultants' Inputs.    The following inputs would be required:
Position/Discipline                                Nos.             Staff Months
Preparation of Data Base and Groundwater Modelling
Groundwater Modelling Specialist              1.                   4.
Groundwater Modelling Team                    1.                 240.
Development of Regulatory Framework
Groundwater Regulation Specialist             1.                   6.
Groundwater Regulation Team                   1.                 120.
Legal Specialist                              1.                   6.
III. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
27.                 A Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Punjab Planning and Development
Board is responsible for coordinating overall project implementation, and directly implements some of the
project components. The PMU is composed of a full time Project Director (PD), two ex-officio Members
(one each from the Irrigation Department and the Directorate General of Water Management), and three



Annex 3
-80-
Page 12 of 12
Directors as well as support staff.  The PMU would be supported by the PIA consultants for whose
selection this invitation for proposals is issued. The PMU is responsible for: (a) overall project
management and coordination; (b) development of groundwater regulatory framework; (c) community
development for formation of FOs and establishment of CTWs, including processing and disbursement
of financial assistance to FOs; (d) M&E, including development of an MIS system for the project; (e)
impact evaluation studies; (f) planning, budgeting, maintenance of consolidated project accounts, including
the IDA Special Account, and ensuring timely submission of audit reports, (g) procurement of vehicles
and all consulting services required for the project.
28.                  The PID through the Member (Irrigation) of PMU, is responsible for STWs
closures and retrieval of machinery from the boreholes and their capping, canal rehabilitation/lining,
drainage rehabilitation and O&M contracts, and redeployment of redundant staff.
29.                  The Directorate General of Water Management is responsible for improving
watercourses, and establishing FOs and CTWs in designated areas. Area and field teams would be
established for this purpose. The Member (Water Management) would, inter alia, be responsible for
(i) ensuring close coordination between the PMU and the Directorate General of Water Management.
30.                  The PMU will sign the contract with the selected PIA consultants and hold
responsibility for all matters relating to the management of this contract. The Project Manager of the PIA
consultants will report directly to the PD PMU. The consultants will also report to the Members for
(Irrigation) and (Water Management) for operational purposes relating to canal lining and water course
improvement and community mobilization aspects.



Annex 4
-31-                                          Page I of 17
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Farmer Participation Plan
I1.            A growing body of evidence indicates that the privatization of public tubewells supplying
irrigation water provides farmers with better control over the joint use of surface and groundwater
resources. Improved control over these resources results in improved irrigation efficiencies and increased
agricultural productivity.4 When privatization strategies are designed to promote the organization of
farmers for the joint-ownership of pump irrigation schemes, improvements in the equity of irrigation water
distribution are more or less guaranteed. Joint-ownership leads to better management of both surface and
sub-surface water resources, establishes a foundation for the regulation of groundwater extraction (through
cooperative management) and sets the precedent , through the strengthening of participatory management
processes, for greater farmer involvement in increasingly more complex levels of resource management....
2.              The proposed project would transfer the ownership of approximately 4,200 public
tubewells -- installed in the 1960s and 1970s under successive Salinization Control and Reclamation
Projects (SCARPs) -- to farmer groups in four SCARP regions of Punjab Province. The project will
support the formation of approximately 6,300 Farmer Organizations (FOs) and their development of
privately operated community tubewells (CTWs) to replace govemment-operated SCARP tubewells
(STWs) throughout the project area. The objective of the project's farmer participation plan is to develop
FOs that can efficiently operate and maintain surface and groundwater resources for irrigated agriculture
in Punjab on a sustainable basis.
3.              Central to the success of public tubewell (STW) privatization would be the project's
promotion of farmer participation in the development and management of private groundwater extraction,
i.e., in the collective investment in community tubewells, the operation and maintenance of those
tubewells, and the effective and sustainable use of groundwater resources in conjunction with surface water
supplies. The encouragement of CTW  development is necessary to ensure that all farmers retain access
to sufficient supplies of groundwater to augment surface supplies when STWs are taken out of operation.
In addition, the project's successful promotion of CTW operation would to enhance the equity of water
resource distribution by improving water supplies to farmers with small land holdings at the tailend of
the tertiary conveyance systems.
4.              There has been a proliferation of private tubewell development in Punjab over the last two
decades.5    However, the costs of tubewell installation, and the marginal return on the investment in
4    See: Robert Chambers, N.C. Saxena and Tushaar Shah. To the Hands of the Poor. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
1994: Linden Vincent and Peter Dempsey "Conjunctive Water Use for Irrigation: Good Theory, Poor Practice."
Water Resource Development, Vol. 9. No. 3, 1993.
The use of groundwater in agriculture in Pakistan was almost nil in 1960. Today, groundwater provides an
estimated 40 percent of the water reaching farmer's fields. Besides increasing the total amount of water available to
farmers for irrigation purposes, private wells have also eliminated much of the uncertainty associated with the
timing and volume of public irrigation supplies. See Robert Johnson. Factors Determining Groundwater Usefor
Irrigation in Pakistan's Punjab. Report prepared for the United States Agency for Intemational Development by
the Irrigation Support Project for Asia and the Near East. December, 1992.



Annex 4
-82-                                          Page 2 of 17
terms of crop yields on small landholdings, discourages the majority of farmers in Punjab from risking
the investment.6 In addition, while there is a well established system for the sharing of perennial surface
irrigation water (warabandi), Pakistani farmers have limited experience with the collective management
of groundwater extraction to augment surface supplies. Although there is evidence of informal "joint
ownership" and operation of small tubewells by farm families throughout Punjab, wide inequities in
patterns of land ownership, fragmentation of landholdings, particularly those of small landholders, a
relatively hierarchical social structure, the heterogeneity of many farming communities, and traditional
rivalries among, and between, lineages discourage widespread collaboration in capital investment to
improve agricultural production.
5.              The promotion of sustainable FOs and their operation of CTWs will require an intensive
institutional development effort. Evaluation of past and disappointing experiences in the promotion of
Water Users Associations for the improvement and maintenance of surface water conveyance systems in
Pakistan indicates that: (i) beneficiaries were not given sufficient autonomy in the planning, participation
and management of the watercourse improvements; (ii) the implementing agencies lacked the required
skills to build effective Associations; (iii) the amount of resources required to support sustainable
Associations, particularly in terms of institution building and follow-up visits by field staff, were vastly
underestimated; and (iv) incentives for farmer participation in the Associations were short-lived. The
farmer participation plan proposed for the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project takes
stock of this experience and incorporates the lessons learned into a new strategy for the development of
FOs. The approach is being tested under the on-going Second SCARP Transition Project in which 230
STWs were earmarked for transfer to FOs promoted through a recently developed farmer participation
program. The farmers' response has been good, nearly 800 FOs had been established and about 550
CTWs have been installed.
6.              Participatory approaches are gaining increased acceptance in donor-supported development
efforts as an effective means of promoting the sustainability of project benefits. However, participatory
approaches are not without their costs in terms of the time and effort required to recruit and train field
staff, to mobilize farmer support, and to carry out the socioeconomic research essential for effective
project implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Nevertheless, experience has demonstrated that these
additional costs are usually offset by subsequent improvements in the pace and quality of project
implementation, improved cost recovery rates, and sustainable systems of infrastructure operation and
maintenance.
7.              The proposed project will require a high level of staff resources over the five year life of
the project for the successful implementation of the farner participation plan. To place this level of
resource requirement in context, the following sections review the rational for farmer participation in the
irrigation sector, the experience of participatory approaches developed in Pakistan; the development of that
experience as it has been applied to the Second SCARP Transition Project; and the use to which the
lessons learned have been used to refine the farmer participation plan proposed for the Private Sector
Groundwater Development Project.
Based on data from the 1980 Agricultural Census, the average farrn size in the project area has been estimated at
4.4 hectares. Analysis of this data indicates that approximately 80 percent of all farms in the project area are
smaller than six hectares, while only ten percent are larger than ten hectares. Farms of less than six hectares
account for approximately 50 percent of the cultivated land area. The remaining 20 percent of farms account for
the remaining 50 percent of the land area. Landholdings are typically fragmented (especially in northeast and
central Punjab SCARP areas), with farmers cultivating an average of three non-contiguous plots. Average
household size is estimated at 7 persons. Considerable caution must be used in the use of the Agricultural Census
data which often disguise the failure of successive land reforms to break up the extensive landholdings.



Annex 4
-83-                                        Page 3 of 17
Rationale for a Participatory Approach
8.             Community participation in rural development involves beneficiaries in the identification,
design, financing and implementation of their own development projects. Community participation
directly supports projects suited to the needs and abilities of the people whom the projects are intended
to benefit. In contrast, conventional approaches involving donor-to-government development grant or loan
assistance typically seek to strengthen the capacity of host-country institutions to deliver assistance.
Conventional projects are typically identified by outsiders (project managers, government officials,
technical experts) or project committees made up of local notables who represent their community to
outsiders. Neither of these groups is bound by community preference in the selection of projects. As a
result, conventional projects often fall short of providing the intended benefits to the community. Not
surprisingly, there is little incentive for the community to support or participate in a project that it did not
request and that may not serve its needs.
9.             The impact of participatory approaches has been particularly well documented in the
irrigation sector.7 Since the 1950s, large amounts of money have been invested to improve irrigated
agriculture worldwide. While initial investments in infrastructure contributed to a significant expansion
of food production, a growing share of investments in the irrigation sector over the past 20 years have
been targeted for the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure that the governments and water users have
failed to maintain. With fiscal crises in most developing countries, weaknesses of government delivery
of water services have become apparent. The deterioration of irrigation systems throughout the world has
exposed serious institutional deficiencies and resulting government failures in most water resources
agencies. This includes lack of motivation and accountability of agency staff, high levels of political
interference and rent seeking, as well as inadequate concern for needs of users. Consequently, without
reliable service, users are not willing to share in the investment, operation and maintenance costs.
Reliance on overextended government agencies that have neglected financial accountability, user
participation, and charging while not delivering services effectively to the users and particularly to the
poor is a major concern. The Bank's review of twenty-one irrigation projects found meaningful cost
recovery only in those projects in which water management and O&M had been entrusted to water users.
10.            Because of their limited financial and administrative resources, governments need to be
selective in the responsibility they assume for water resources. An operational principle is that nothing
should be done at a higher level of government that can be done satisfactorily at a lower level. Thus,
where local or private capabilities exist the water delivery service should be transferred to private sector,
financially autonomous public corporations, and to community organizations. The lessons of experience
suggest that an important principle in restructuring public service agencies is their conversion into
financially autonomous entities, with effective authority to charge and collect fees and with freedom to
manage without political interference. Such entities need to work under hard budget constraint that
enhances incentives for efficiency and revenue generation.  Participation empowers stakeholder to
influence the formulation of policy, the choice of design and investment, an management decision
affecting their communities. It establishes necessary sense of ownership, bringing user discipline, and
7    See for example: Bryan Bruns and Irchamni Soelaiman, "From Practice to Policy: Agency and NGO in Indonesia's
Programme to Tum Over Small Irrigation Systems to Farmers," in Overseas Development Institute Irrigation
Management Network, Network Paper No. 10, London, April 1992; Edward D. Martin and Robert Yoder,
"Institutions for Irrigation Management in Farmer Managed Systems in Nepal." Intemational Irrigation
management Institute Research Paper No. 3. Sri Lanka, 1987.; Kerry J. Bymes, "Case Studies of Water User
Associations in Pakistan." The World Bank, Washington, D.C., December 1992.; and Frances F. Korten and Robert
Y. Siy, Jr., Transforming a Bureaucracy: The Experience of the Philippine National Irrigation Administration.
West Hartford, CN: Kumarian Press, 1988.



-84-                                                 Annex 4
Page 4 of 17
accountability for service delivery. This would not only reduce public expenditures but ensure better
O&M by making water users responsible for the facilities from which they benefitted.8
11.              User participation in irrigation management is not new. Communal irrigation systems have
existed in other countries, such as Thailand, India, Sri Lanka, Bali, Indonesia, the Philippines, Nepal,
Mexico, Argentina, Columbia, and the Dominican Republic. Experience indicates that active farmer
involvement in irrigation is very cost effective in mobilization of local resources, improvement and
maintenance activities, reduction of irrigation department staff time, reduction in the destruction of
facilities, fee and fine collection, resolution of disputes, and provision of an organized means for extension
and farmer trainilng. Recognition of these benefits (and a realization that many of irrigation performance
problems were poor O&M, brought on by government institutional failures'") led to a marked increase
in the development of user associations in the past 20 years." Developing country experiences with
WUAs vary considerably, but valuable lessons can be drawn for Pakistan's strategy.  Histories of
successful indigenous system development, however, reveal a common pattern: successful user associations
develop simultaneously with the planning, construction and expansion or creation of the physical system--
often over a period of many years.'2
12.             One of the successful government efforts to promote user participation in irrigation
management is the Philippines. There, more than 5,600 communal irrigation schemes cover almost half
of the irrigated land. They conduct O&M  and operate on a self-financing basis with technical assistance
from  a network of Irrigation Community Organizers.
13.             In Indonesia, the government sought to turnover small-scale irrigation systems to WlJAs,
when under-financing of O&M began to threaten system sustainability. The WUAs were given legal
rights and technical assistance to take on management responsibilities. Since 1987, the government has
transferred more than 400 systems, covering more than 34,000 ha, to WUAs. Success of the program is
said to be due to early inclusion of farmers in design and creation of the WUAs.
14.              In Nepal, 70 percent of all irrigation is now  under farmer control.  Expansion of the
system  in recent years has been helped by a Bank-financed Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project. The
project extends credit to WUAs which contribute to capital costs for construction of new subsystems and
take over O&M.
15.              In Turkey, Irrigation Department's plans for completing transfer of irrigation system by
the turn of the century are progressing well with more than 200,000 ha transferred so far. Many states
Max Goldensohn. Participation and Empowerment: An Assessment of Water User Associations in Asia and Egypt.
Report prepared for the Bureau for Asia and the Near East, USAID by the Irrigation Support Project for Asia and
the Near East. December, 1994.
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), "Farmers' Participation and Organization for Irrigation Water Management", The
International Support Program for Farm Water Management, Land and Water Development Division, April 1982
World Bank, "Water Resources Management: A Policy Paper", February, 1993, p. 53; Elinor Ostrom, Crafting Institutions for
Self-Governing Irrigation Systems, 1992, p. 8.
It is estinmated that at present about 45 million ha (or one-third) of the irrigated area in Asia is operated and maintained by about
500,000 associations. See: Toru Mase, "A Study of Water Users' Associations for Irrigation in Asia", Journal of Irrigation
Engineering and Rural Planning, Number 18, February 1990, pp. 5-16.
2   H. Walker and R. Cleveringa (eds.), Management of Irrigation Systems, GTZ, 1989.



-85-                                           Annex 4
Page 5 of 17
of India, such as Tamil Nadu, Orissa, Maharashtra and Haryana are embarking on the same approach of
greater users participation.
16.           Interest in (and new approaches to) farmer-managed irrigation schemes has grown in Latin
America as well, most recently in Mexico where large irrigation systems have been transferred to the
farmers organizations and their federations. More than 2 million ha have been transferred and some of
the main and branchi canals are managed by the users. In Argentina, traditional user organizations (whose
members held a total of 100 to 500 ha) were found to be too small to meet the associated costs.
Maintenance was insufficient, water management was weak, and headenders benefitted disproportionately.
To capture the economies of scale, these associations merged into larger ones with 5,000 to 15,000 ha.
Twenty-onie new organizations were formed, covering 200,000 ha. Each organization is autonomous,
finances its own expenditures, and issues its own regulatioiis in accordance with the newly-enacted water
law. Each hires professional managers to take charge of for example, water delivery, cost recovery, and
maintenance. Not only are administrative costs are lower, but the larger organizations have increased
conveyance efficiency by 10 percent.
17.           In the Dominican Republic, management of irrigation and drainage systems is transferred
to WUAs in two project areas, Azua (YSURA) and Santiago (PYRN Contract 1), with total area of 14,400
ha, serving 6,000 farm  families.  A water users group (Nucleos) was formed on each sublateral.
Distribution of irrigationi water is controlled by Nucleos after it leaves the lateral canal. The Nucleos on
an irrigationi lateral subsequently formed a WUA (Junta) that encompassed a complete lateral. After
transferring the system to the WUAs the cost recovery and O&M of the system has improved significantly.
18.           In Colombia, management of two large irrigation districts is in the hands WUAs. WUAs
recover O&M costs through a combination of fixed and volumetric charges, and partly from equipment
rentals and bank interests.
19.            The World Bank has played a major role in promoting participatory approaches  to
irrigation system development and management throughout the world. A recent review of that experience
has summarized the benefits of an increase in user participation as follows:'3
(a)    Improved system performance -- clear gains in efficiency and in the standard of service
are achieved wheni system design and management are transferred to farmers;
(b)    Reduced governmenr expendilure -- farmer associations have proven to be more effective
collectors of user fees than government agencies;
(c)    Sustainability -- farmer participation in the design and construction of irrigation systems
promotes their sense of "ownership" of the system, and gives farmers a greater level of
incentive to maintain systems than those constructed by the government; physical and
financial sustainability of systems are enhanced when O&M costs are met from user fees
rather than government subsidies;
(d)    Equity -- a more equitable distribution of water resources to potential beneficiaries is
achieved in participatory systems than in non-participatory systems;
'   Ruth Meinzen-Dick, Richard Reidinger and Andrew Manzardo. Parlicipation in Irrigation. Environmental Department
Ilarticipation Series Paper No. 3. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank. February, 1995.



Annex 4
-86-                                       Page 6 of 17
(e)    Multiplier Effects -- skills developed by farmers in the participatory framework can be
expanded to take on greater levels of administrative responsibility and resource
management; these same skills can be applied to community relations with other
developmental agencies.
20.            The community management of groundwater development in conjunction with public
surface water irrigation schemes has enormous potential for increasing irrigation efficiencies and
improving agricultural production by putting resource management more directly in the hands of the
resource users. However, the kinds of institutions required in situations of conjunctive use are very
different from the Water User Associations conventionally promoted for the management of surface water
conveyance structures. In conjunctive use situations, individual farmers who have their own tubewells
have fewer incentives to participate in groundwater development than those dependent on surface irrigation
water. Nevertheless, farners can derive benefits from common management of groundwater extraction
by reducing their investment costs, reducing risk of over exploitation and by pressuring the government
to amend surface water allocations to take advantage of new crop market options available to them.'4
The proposed project attempts to capitalize on Pakistan's accumulated experience in promoting
participatory development to build those institutions required for effective irrigation water management
Farmer Participation: The Pakistan Experience
2].            The participatory development approach in Pakistan is characterized by the organization
of small farmiers into decentralized, broad-based and homogeneous interest groups called Village
Organizations (VO). The approach has its origins in the small farmer development initiatives conceived
during the cooperative movement of the 1970s. These included the Comila Project in what is now
Bangladesh and the Daudzai Project near Peshawar implemented by the Pakistan Academy of Rural
Development. The approach assumes that villagers with relatively homogeneous resources, who own their
crop land, and who collectively manage the distribution of public resources such as irrigation water and
common grazing land, will cooperate to finance, manage, and maintain village-level infrastructure projects
that benefit all villagers.  As the approach has evolved, in the context of donor-supported rural
development initiatives, local communities establish their own institutions, identify their development
priorities, organize their resources, manage their development agenda, and create the necessary links for
continuing technical and financial assistance by outside agencies. The supporting agency -- either
governmental or nongovernmental -- provides technical and financial assistance, but it does not infringe
on the autonomy of the village organization. Decision-making rests with the community, which can reject
the advice and judgement of the project experts."
22.            The Village Organization approach has had its most long-lived application in the
development efforts of the Agha Khan Foundation in Pakistan's remote Northern Areas. Since 1982, the
Agha Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP) has been developing a model of village self-reliance that
has been adapted to a wide variety of developmental activities throughout the country.
23.    The Agha Khan Rural Support Program.   The strategy of AKRSP has been to promote the
development of village institutions for the financing and management of essential local infrastructure
Vincent and Dempsey, 1993, op. cit
Tariq Husain. "Developing Community Participation in Kala Dhaka: Concepts and Proposals." In Richard English., Tariq Husain
and Richard B Scott, A Review of the Major Issues Affecting the Implementation of the Kala Dhaka Area Development Project.
Report prepared for the Office of Agriculture and Rural Development, United States Agency for Intemational Development
Islamabad, Pakistan, 1991.



Annex 4
-97-                                        Page 7 of 17
projects.  AKRSP staff facilitate the formation of a village organizationi around the construction and
maintenlanice of public works such as small-scale irrigation, connecting roads, and flood protection projects.
Members of the VO meet on a regular basis to identify potential projects, discuss their feasibility, and
develop a work plan to carry out the project selected for implementation.  The VO  designs and
implemiienits the project witlh the assistance of AKRSP staff and technical consultants. Members of the VO
contribute to a collective savings accoun1t that is used to help finance the project, and AKRSP grants the
village organizationi funds in installmenits as work on the initial infrastructure project proceeds, largely to
supplement labor costs. All subsequenlt village organizationi activities, including maintenance of the
infrastrctuire, muiist be tinaniced by the VO from  its own savings or from  the use of that savings as
collateral crcdit.
24.            1laving received continulous support since 1981 from a host of donors including the World
Bank, t ISAI.) ClD)A, ODA, Oxflam, the Ford Foundation and the Government of Pakistan, AKRSP has
expended over $20 millioni to establislh more than 1,400 village organizationis, with a membership that
includes more tlhan half of all rural househIolds in the project area. These village organizations have
ulidertakeni mole thani 1,000 village infrastructure schemiies worth $30 million. By any standard of success,
AKRSP has been a catalyst for local decision making and collective action in rural development.
Althlough AKRSP functions independently of any government line department operating in the northem
areas, village organizationis have become vehicles through which villagers make collective demands on
tile local governm11eint for improvements in public services."6
25.            The success of the AKRSP is largely responsible for the growing emphasis on community
participationi in developiment initiatives in recent years throughout Pakistan. For example, the Government
of Nortlh West Frontier Province, witth assistance from USAID, sanctioiied the creation of the Sarhad Rural
Support Corporation in 1990 to assist the provincial governlment in the implementation of donor-funded
area development projects."7  A number of donor-supported natural resource management projects in
S'indlh, B3alochistani, Punjab and Azad Jammu and Kashmir have also been designed to incorporate villager
participation in tlleir implementation.  In 1992, the AKRSP approach was adopted at the national level
with the creation of the National Rural Support Program to implement the Government's multi-sectoral
Social Action Plan on a nation-wide scale.
26.            At the time that the AKRSP VO approachi was being developed in Pakistan's remote areas,
donors were attempting to apply the growinig world-wide experience with participatory development in
the irrigation sector to the improved delivery of surface water for irrigated agriculture in Pakistan's
densely populated Indus Basin. The cornerstonie of this approach was the organization of farmers into
Water User Associations for the improvement of canal infrastructure and the improved management of
irrigation water.
27.    Water Users Associations and On Farm  Water Management.                       In the late 1970s,
irrigation development policy in Pakistan began to shift from construction to system rehabilitation and
improvemenit of water managemenit on existing projects down to the farm level. This shift was influenced
See tlhc c\aluations of' AKRSI' carried out h\ the World Bank's Operations Evaluation Department in 1987 and
199(.
lhese include: the Asian Development Bank-t'lnded Barani Area Development Project; the Pak-Holland
Provincially Administered Iribal Areas Irrigation Project; the Pak-Swiss Swabi Irrigated Agriculture Project, the
1FADIslamic Development Bank-assisted Mansehra Village Area Development Project; and the Asian Development
B5alnk,'IlYAD-assisted Chitral Area Development Project.



-88-                                        Annex 4
Page 8 of 17
by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)/Pakistan On-Farm Water
Management Pilot Project (1976-81) in which farmers supplied all unskilled labor for watercourse
improvement -- cleaning, realignment, and lining with bricks and mortar -- while the government provided
materials and technical assistance. Systems restored under this project deteriorated rapidly because farmers
were not organized to maintain the improved watercourses once they were improved. The World Bank
built upon the lessons learned from the USAID-supported effort through the development of the On-Farm
Water Management Program (OFWM). The general aim of OFWM program has been to promote the
formation of local-level Water User Associations (WUA) that can assume the operations and maintenance
of tertiary irrigation channels, or watercourses. The program works through WUAs to mobilize labor and
funds for the improvement and maintenance of watercourses, with watercourse lining serving as the major
incentive for farmer participation in the program.  The Bank required that each of the four provinces
implementing the program establish legal ordinance formalizing the procedures for the organization and
registration of WUA at the watercourse command level. OFWM programs also attempt to link farmers
with specialized public services that introduce cultivation practices for maximizing available water use.
These services include contract grading, precision land leveling and improved agricultural extension.
28.           In Punjab, a Directorate of On-Farm  Water Management was created within the
Agriculture Department to provide training to WUA leadership and field-level assistance to help farmers
organize WUAs. WUAs proved to be effective institutions for mobilizing labor to improve watercourses
and more than 17,000 have been registered. However, because the farmers were legally organized and
empowered solely to improve the physical infrastructure of the watercourse, there was little incentive
beyond the immediate inputs of the project for farmers to maintain the WUA or the watercourses. As a
result, the improvement of civil works alone had little or no positive effect on equity of water delivery,
even though there has been some increase in supply at tailend farms. Seepage losses were diminished if
not eliminated with canal lining but there remain considerable water losses along channels because of
operational waste and theft of water through outlet tampering.'8
29.           The disappointing results of OFWM efforts to date are largely due to organizational
inequities both within the beneficiary communities and the public agencies mandated to serve those
communities.  Watercourses are a classic common property resource shared by 20 to 100 farmers.
However, there are many different categories of farmers in the irrigated areas of Punjab. They are defined
by such factors as: the size and tenure arrangements of their land holdings; social and economic status;
ethnic and kinship identities; political affiliations; varying access to bureaucracy; and linkages with the
national economy. Farmers may have too few common interests to sustain multipurpose joint action.
Conversely, sub-groups within a WUA (e.g., extended families and lineages, or biradari) have interests
that are not common to the entire community of water users.
30.           Moreover, WIUAs have little influence as institutions aside from the mobilization of labor
to achieve the objectives of the OFWM program. While the Punjab Water User Association ordinance of
1981 established the WUAs as legal entities vis-a-vis the Irrigation Department and the Directorate of
OFWM, other government agencies are not bound to recognize WUAs, and the WUAs have no authority
to deal with other government departments. Yet, even minor water management issues and repairs to
watercourse may involve other government agencies, for example, the Revenue Department, which levies
taxes on WUA members, not the WUA itself. In effect, the WUA has no legal mandate for systems
operation and water resource management. While scarcity helped stimulate the formation of WUAs, once
'I  Associates in Rural Development. "Command Water Management Project Final Report." Report prepared for the
United States Agency for Intemational Development, Islamabad, Pakistan. Burlington, VT: Associates in Rural
Development, Inc. 1991.



-89-                                          Annex 4
Page 9 of 17
the surface supply of water improved as a result of improvements to physical infrastructure, the
organizations became dormant.'9 As one analyst notes, the OFWM experience demonstrates that, to
ensure sustainable farmer organizations, a working agreement and its legal framework must provide
farmiers with rights and benefits as well as with duties and responsibilities.20
3 1.           The proliferation of affordable lift technology for the private extraction of groundwater
has revolutionized small-farmer production systems in Punjab.  It has also called into question the
continuing efficiency of public institutions in the management of the irrigation sector. However, the
relatively unrestricted pumping of groundwater by private farmers poses enonnous economic and
environmental risks for irrigated agriculture in Punjab. As the following section points out, participatory
development of groundwater resources represents a balanced strategy for the sustainable management of
irrigation water.
The Transition from Public to Private Development of Groundwater Resources
32.            Over the last three decades, approximately 13,500 public tubewells have been installed
by the Government of Pakistan to control waterlogging and saline soil conditions throughout the irrigated
areas of the Indus River Basin under a succession of Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARP).
Nearly 75 percent of these tubewells were installed in Punjab Province. In saline groundwater areas,
SCARP tubewells pumped water into surface drains or main canals. In fresh groundwater areas, water
from STWs was normally pumped into tertiary watercourses and used to augment surface irrigation water
supplies. The SCARP projects were generally successful in meeting the objectives of controlling the depth
of water tables and supplementing surface irrigation water supplies. However, STW performance has
declined over tine due to poor management, political interference and inadequate funding for O&M. Half
of all STWs in Punjab operate at below 50 percent capacity, and only 15 percent operate at better than
80 percent capacity.
33.            Poor STW  performance has in a number of areas been compensated by informal farmers
groups that have formed spontaneously. These groups look after daily operations of the pump and its
routine maintenance. These groups also finance major repairs using local mechanics, electricians and other
services from local markets. However, farmers find it difficult to carry out repairs involving the main
shaft of the turbine because such repairs require specialized equipment available only with Punjab
Irrigation Department (PID) workshops. Nevertheless, farmers follow-up and assist PID in expediting such
repairs.
34.            SCARP Transition    Beginning in 1991, with a series of SCARP Transition Project,
the Bank sought to counter the impact of the deteriorating  STW  performance by supporting the
privatization of groundwater extraction and application. By offering subsidies and credit to farmers for
the installation of private tubewells (PTWs), the Bank sought to: (i) increase agricultural production
through improved and timely provision of supplementary irrigation water; (ii) control water table levels
so that they do not adversely effect production; (iii) reduce the PID's budgetary burden by closing all
STWs and replacing them with privately-operated and maintained tubewells. However, the closure of the
STWs posed a significant problem for farmers at the tailend of watercourses, particularly those farmers
Goidensohn, 1994, op.cit. Kapil Goonesekere, A.R. Saleemi, Tariq Husain and Max Goldensohn. "Trip Repon --
The Performance and Sustainability of Water User's Associations in Pakistan." Report prepared for the USAID
Irrigation support Project for Asia and the Near East. February, 1994,
'i   Meinzen-Dick, et al., 1995. op. cit



-90-                                         Annex 4
Page 10 of 17
who cannot afford to install PTWs. The supplemental flows that the STW contribute to surface water
delivery systems increase the reliability of water reaching the tailend of the watercourse. With the closure
of the STWs, surface water supplies would no longer reach the tail. Consequently, tailend farmers have
to rely more or less entirely on groundwater. However, even though the number of PTWs is quite high
in some of the project areas, farmers without PTWs do not have an assured supply of groundwater.
Instead, they must rely on those that do to sell surplus water at high rates. In areas where groundwater
is saline. exclusive dependence on groundwater for irrigation inevitably leads to deterioration of soil
conditions and decrease in crop yields.
35.           The Bank determined that the promotion of PTW development was inappropriate because
it led to farmers installing excessive pumping capacity, which in turn led to them incurring excessive
operations and maintenianice costs. Excess pumping capacity leads to the over exploitation of groundwater,
promotes greater inequity in water supply, and the improper conjunctive use of canal and groundwater.
The Mid-Term Review of the Second SCARP Transition Project (SSTP) determined the best remedy to
this situation was to eliminate continued subsidies for PTWs.  Instead, the Mid-Term  Review
recommended the promotion of collective investment by farmers in Community Tubewells (CTWs) to
replace STWs at the head or middle reaches of the watercourse, and the continued improvement of
conveyance efficiencies throughi watercourse lining.2
36.    The Introduction of Farmer Participation.  Following  the Mid-Term  Review, a social
mobilization strategy was developed for the SSTP to establish Farmer Organizations (FO) throughout the
project area capable of installing, operating and maintaining CTWs. In the absence of significant
experience mobilizling community participation, four different approaches for establishing FOs were
developed.  One approach relies on the SSTP implementation consultants to train and field Social
Organizers who work intensively with farmers to build FOs. Another approach utilizes a national rural
service NGO, the National Farm Guides, that works under the supervision of the of the SSTP consultants
to establish FOs. A third approach utilizes the services of the Irrigation Agronomy Teams of the
Directorate of OFWM to establish FOs in those areas of SSTP where it is implementing watercourse
improvement in conjunction witil the projects groundwater privatization efforts. Finally, a fourth approach
utilizes the services of the canal paItwari or field-level revenue agents of the Provincial Irrigation
Department (PID).
37.           Under the SSTP farmer participation strategy, FOs are required to have a membership of
approximately one-third of the water users (shareholders) on a targeted watercourse. The FOs may choose
to register as a formal legal entity or as a subset of a Water User Association (if one exists on the
watercourse) under the Provincial Water User Association Ordinance. FOs have three options for the
establishment of a CTW: (I) purchase the original STW from the PID and utilize the original equipment;
(ii) replace the bore and pump of the existing STW with project (partial) financial and technical
assistance; (iii) or install a new tubewell at another site along the watercourse. FOs must nominate a
management committee, establish a bank account, and deposit funds for their share of CTW installation
costs plus the estimated cost of one year's operation and maintenance.  A fund for the eventual
replacement of the CTW is generated from the sale of water to FO members or to non-members. In the
case of option iii, FOs must also secure an agreement from the landowner on whose property the new
CTW will be installed for unrestricted access by the FO members. Once the CTW is installed, each
member pays a fixed rate -- established by the FO to meet operation and maintenance costs -- to the
management committee for each hour of pumping required to water his fields.
Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. 2257-PAK). "Mid-Term Review, Follow-up Mission: Aide-Memoire."
Islamabad, Pakistan: The World Bank. November, 1994.



Annex 4
-91-                                      Page 11 of 17
38.            Under the revised SSTP, a Project Impact Evaluation Study (PIES) was funded to monitor
and evaluate the formation of FOs. The Interim  Report of the PIES consultants evaluated the farmer
participation approach implemented by the SSTP consultants most favorably in terms of SO training,
reconnaissance and familiarizing farmers with the aims of the project, efforts to facilitate formation and
provide continiuotis support to FOs, and overall performance in meeting targets (i.e., number of FOs
established and CTWs installed against the number of STWs for which they were responsible).22  The
evaluationi results were based on only three months of field implementation. Thus, the results cannot be
considered an effective indicator of sustainability of project initiatives, nor the sustainability of the FOs
themilselves. Hlowever, the study results indicate that a large-scale and effective farmer participation effort
can be mobilized in a relatively short period of time. The success of Social Organizers in meeting
physical targets also suggests that there is considerable receptivity among farmers to the development of
CTWs.
39.            During the Appraisal mission for the proposed project -- after more than six months of
SSTP's efforts to promote farmer participation -- the Appraisal Team assessed SSTP's social mobilization
approacih througil a review of project monitorinig and evaluation reports, interviews with Social Organizers
and( field visits to Farmer Organizations formed utilizing each of the four approaches supported by SSTP.
The most frequently cited obstacles that SOs faced in mobilizing farner participation in CTW  schemes
iniclude the Following:
(a)    Conflicts and rivalries based in traditional political, class, communal, and inter-fanilial
alliances in rural Punjab typically discourage local-level collaboration.
(b)    Opposition of farmers with large landholdings who derive the most significant benefits
from functioniing STWs -- both in terms of low cost water and high application rates --
to the closing of STWs. These farmers attempt to use political influence to prevent the
STW  closing, and to dissuade smaller farmers who share the watercourse from organizing
and taking advantage of project benefits.
(c)     Fanner demand for larger subsidies and concessions from the project to compensate for
the sharp increase in the cost of groundwater that results from the closure of STWs.
(d)    Opposition of farmers with PTWs who fear that a proliferation of CTWs will undernine
their market for surplus groundwater.
40.            There is ample evidence of collective action among farming households in Punjab to
suggest that these conflicts and rivalries are not an insurmounitable obstacle to FO  formation and
sustainabilitv. Warabandi, the system by whicih farilers share surface irrigation water supplies in turn,
has been in continuous operation throughout the irrigated areas of the Indus Basin for well over 100 years.
Farn families throughlout the Punjab typically exchange labor during peak agricultural production periods
in a system known as warang. The evidence of informal farmers groups that have taken over the
operation and maintenance of STWs, and of private tubewells operated by small numbers of farm families
in the project area also indicates that there exists a potential for collective capital investment and enduring
cooperation in the operation and maintenance of capital goods at the farm level. SOs can build on these
traditional and spontaneous institutions of cooperation to promote support for the FO
Multi Dimensional Consultants. "Project impact Evaluation Study for the Second Scarp Transition Project;
Monitoring Farmers Organizations (FOs)". Interim Report submitted to the Irrigation and Power Department,
(iovcrnment ot Punjab. Lahore. Mav. 1995.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 17
41.    Equity Issues. With regard to the influence of large landholders, or those who have heretofore
monopolized capital investment and water markets, there is evidence to suggest that this influence may
effect the equity of the water distribution, which the proposed project attempts to promote in a number
of areas. From the Appraisal Team's field investigations, it was evident that certain members of a group
were financing the membership of poorer shareholders by subsidizing their cash contribution to the FO.
It is possible that more influential and wealthy farmers may use their advantage to dominate the FO and
monopolize some, or all, of the resources of the CTW. In these circumstances of a very hierarchical
social structure and an inequitable distribution of assets and resources, it may be unrealistic to expect that
truly equitable and democratic Farmer Organizations can be supported throughout the project area. As
the recent World Bank assessment of participation in the irrigation sector notes, participation may be at
odds with equity objectives where some groups have more influence than others. In a number of areas,
powerful farmers are likely to have more influence than others in irrigation associations -- ironically, they
may function more effectively as the result of the influence of powerful farmers. While inequities cannot
be eliminated altogether, efforts can be made to structure organizations and target project resources to
maximize the potential for equitable distribution of resources.23 For example, the proposed project will
attempt to target tailend farners by encouraging FOs to cite CTWs in the middle of the watercourse, rather
that at the head, in an attempt to improve the reliability of water delivery to the tailend.24
42.             A key element in the success of the farmer participation plan implemented by the SSTP
consultants is the extent that the SOs serve as intermediaries between the FO membership and the
government functionaries who sanction FO formation. SOs effectively "level the playing field" for all
farmers to participate in project activities by intervening on behalf of an FO's membership in activities
that would ordinarily cost farmers considerable time and money. These activities include the opening of
an FO bank account, registering the FO, and attesting the FO's registration and bank balance to the project
authorities to secure financial assistance for CTW installation.
43.             Another key element in the initial success of the SSTP farmer participation approach is
the promotion of farmer collaboration in productive investments, i.e., a CTW that provides FO
membership greater control over the application of irrigation water.  As the AKRSP experience
demonstrates, collective investment activities show the most promise for improving the sustainability of
farmer organizations. In contrast, OFWM efforts to build sustainable WUAs by providing improved
agricultural extension services fell short. Recent research indicates that Pakistan's farmers use available
water supplies with maximum efficiency. While OFWM interventions may have improved the reliability
of surface water deliveries, they did not improve that level of reliability enough to enable middle and
tailend farmners to increase the profitability of their farms in the way that PTWs and CTWs do.25
21   Meinzen-Dick, et al. 1995. op. cit.
2    An example of the impact of more equitable distribution of water resources can be found among FOs established
under the SSTP in Jaranwala Tehsil, Faisalabad District. Two CTWs were installed at a bifurcation of the main
watercourse supplied by the upper branch of the Rakh Canal and supplemented by water pumped from STW No.
JW 118. Because of improved water supply, each member of the FO situated at the tailend of the watercourse
reported sowing a rice crop on land that had previously not been cultivated due to lack of irrigation water.
25   Goldensohn, 1994. op. cit. The ADB-supported Second Community Irrigation Project in Muzzafarabad District of
Punjab has applied the principal of productive investment in the promotion of FO organization and installation of
CTWs. Under this project, FOs are organized among watercourse shareholders and provided incentives to take over
the operation of the existing STWs. In addition, the project provides farm implements to the FO, which rents these
implements to members.



Annex 4
-93-                                  Page 13 of 17
Lessons Learned
44.           From the review of farmer participation in Pakistan, and specifically in the irrigation
sector, the following lessons can be drawn:
(a)    The conjunctive use of surface and groundwater resources improves irrigation efficiencies
and the equity of resource distribution.
(b)    In comparison with public and private (individual) systems of pump irrigation, inigation
efficiencies and equity of water distribution improve when farming communities
collaborate to operate and maintain tubewells and the conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater resources.
(c)    The sustainability of farmer organizations is directly proportional to the extent that they
are organized around productive investment and they have true control over the
management of those resources to maximize return on the investment.
(d)    The formation of enduring farmer organizations requires continuous support at the social
as well as the technical level to ensure that the organization endures potential social,
economic and political conflicts that discourage collective action.
(e)    Under current circumstances in Punjab, consultants are likely to provide the best level of
support to FOs. Government departments do not have the capacity or experience to
support FOs, and ingrained procedures prevent government bureaucracies from readily
adapting to what has been considered more effective procedures.
(f)    NGO capacity in Punjab is oriented towards the promotion of social welfare and not
participatory rural development. However, the their social activism and familiarity with
rural social relations can be tapped and used effectively when consultants provide capacity
building and administrative support to NGO staff.
45.           These lessons have been incorporated into the proposed plan for farmer participation in
the proposed Project described in the following section.
Farmer Participation Under the Project
46.    The Institutional Framework.       The proposed project aims to convert approximately 4,200
STWs in four SCARP regions of Punjab Province over a period of five years. The project will support
the formation of approximately 6,300 village-level Farmer Organizations (FOs) and their development of
privately operated community tubewells (CTWs) to replace government-operated STWs throughout the
project area. The objective of this project activity is to develop FOs that can efficiently operate and
maintain surface and groundwater resources for irrigated agriculture in Punjab on a sustainable basis. The
achievement of this objective will require considerable human and financial resources. A grass roots effort
of this type requires an organization with specific skills and experience in social mobilization and a
network of local level contacts. The Bank's pre-appraisal mission explored the possibility of using NGOs
to assume responsibility for managing the social mobilization aspects of the project. However, it was
mission's assessment that NGO capacity in Punjab is too limited to handle the extensive task. Therefore,
the preferred alternative is to establish an institutional framework consisting of a Project Management Unit
(PMU); social mobilization consultants and local level NGOs with the participation of PAD and PID.



Annex 4
-94-                                  Page 14 of 17
47.           The project will support the development of a farmer participation program within the
PMU. The PMU will have overall responsibility for the project's social mobilization efforts through a
Community Development Support Group (CDSG) recruited as consultancy services. The CDSG team will
consist of: i) a core staff responsible for CDSG field staff training and management, and social
mobilization program coordination; and ii) a field staff of Social Organizers (SOs) working with the help
of NGOs and village level social activists to mobilize farmer participation in project activities. CDSG will
have responsibility for the privatization of approximately 2700, or two-thirds of the STWs targeted for
privatization. The Directorate of On Farm Water Management (OFWM) will be responsible for the
privatization of the remaining targeted STWs in conjunction with a program of project-supported
watercourse improvement. The PMU will have responsibility for coordination and supervision of all STW
privatization and FO development activities supported by the project, including those undertaken by
OFWM
48.            The CDSG core staff will be comprised of internationally recruited consultants.  The
core team will include a Team Leader (45 sm), a Deputy Team Leader (60 sm), a Social Mobilization
Specialist (15 sin) and a Training Specialist (5 sm). The core consultants will be based in Lahore and
housed in the offices of the PMU. The core team will be responsible for training SOs in farmer group
formation and social assessment, as well as develop farmer training packages for SOs in basic literacy,
financial management (bookkeeping, credit management, savings), legal requirements of FOs, operations
and maintenance (including water sales), interaction with Government agencies, and dispute resolution.
49.           The consultants would provide up to 445 staff years of services over the five year life of
the project. These consultants would comprise a Field Operations Management team, based in Lahore,
four Watercourse Assessment Survey Teams, and four social mobilization field teams whose size will be
expanded as project activities increase in geographical scope. In addition to support staff, each field team
will typically include: one Social Coordinator (SC), with responsibilities for managing the field office; two
Technical Coordiniators (TCs); up to ten Social Organizers (SOs), up to five After-care Social Organizers
(ASOs). and a Watercourse Assessment Survey Team. Wherever possible, SOs and ASOs will be
recruited through local NGOs throughout the project area to promote the development of effective
relationshilps with potential beneficiaries.
50.    Social Mobilization Strategy.      The project will promote the formation of at least one FO
per watercourse supplied by each STW targeted for privatization. The participation of at least 30 percent
of the farmers who are watercourse shareholders is required to form an FO. Once established, the FO will
be offered financial assistance amounting to Rs. 20,000 towards the modification/rehabilitation of an
existing STW or the installation of a new CTW. This amount represents approximately 30 percent of the
capital cost of a new CTW. The remaining cost will be borne by the FO membership. FOs choosing to
assume ownership and operation of the existing STW will be charged Rs. 10,000 for the capital transfer.
51.           Based on the SSTP's experience with promoting farmer participation, it is estimated that
one trained SO can complete the privatization of 15 STWs per year. It is also estimated that the STW
transition -- from the initial point of contact between SO and potential members of an FO to the
completion of CTW installation -- will require as much as 16 weeks of ongoing support from CDSG field
office staff, at least in the introductory stages of the social mobilization program in the target areas. An
additional 14 to 24 months of field staff effort will be dedicated to supporting the ongoing functions of
each FO. Each SO will be assigned a cluster of 30 STWS within which he/she will concentrate his/her
efforts for a period of eighteen months to two years. The scope of field staff activities required to support
FO formation can be divided into three distinct stages -- pre-STW transition, transition and post-transition.
An illustrative scope of these activities is as follows:



Annex 4
-95-                                   Page 15 of 17
Pre-Transition Stage
Week I        Watercourse Assessment Team  and SO survey targeted watercourse; socioeconomic
profile and maps prepared; baseline data tabulated.
Weeks 2-3     SO and ASO visit watercourse on a daily basis to apprise shareholders of imminent STW
closing and explain CTW program. The SOs would identify their counterparts and
provide information to farmers on:
(a)    the closure of the STW;
(b)    the benefits of a CTW  such as lower financial costs of installation of a CTW
versus a PTW --perhaps 10 to 15 times less depending upon the number of share
holders; lower O&M costs; benefits of conjunctive use of CTW  with surface
supplies, which are not available with a PTW, greater equity in distribution of
surface water due to installation of CTW at the head of the watercourse; access
to further project assistance, watercourse renovations, etc.;
(c)    the menu of options available to the group --replacement of STW with CTW(s),
reconfiguration of the existing STW;
(d)    estimation of costs associated with the various options available;
(e)    the nature of project financial assistance requirements of project participation (one
year's O&M deposited in bank account);
(f)    further project assistance available to FOs operating CTWs and required
contributions of the FO;
(g)    legal requirements and status of FOs (minimum  number of residents of
watercourse needed to form a project-assisted FO; legal formation of FO or as
legal sub-group of WUA if one already exists);
(h)    roles and responsibilities of various members in a typical FO-operated CTW;
(i)    training available to FOs.
Transition Stage
Weeks 4-8     SO and ASOs assist in the organization of shareholders into FOs to take advantage of the
project's financial incentives for developing CTWs. This assistance, provided through
weekly or more frequent visits, as required, includes: verification of each FO member's
share holding; the designation of FO office bearers (President, Vice-President, Secretary
and Treasurer); the opening of an FO bank account with donations made by each member
pro-rated against the size of his/her landholding; development of an administrative
capacity within the FO through counseling in organizational methods, conflict resolution
and training in record and accounts keeping; and technical advice (from the TCs) on
tubewell location, installation, and selection, operation and maintenance of pumpsets.
Weeks 8-16    SOs and ASOs supervise CTW  installation and facilitate the processing of project's
financial assistance payment to the FO.
Post-Transition Stage
Weeks 17-24  ASOs make regular visits to the FO to monitor continuity of farmer participation; discuss
and promote improved agronomic and water management practices; mediate disputes and
collect quantitative and qualitative data to monitor project impact.



Annex 4
Page 16 of 17
52.           The deployment of field staff will be staggered throughout an individual cluster. An SO
or ASO will participate in each Watercourse Assessment Survey conducted in his/her cluster and return
to previously surveyed watercourses to promote FO formation or service existing FOs on a regular basis.
TCs sNill be called upOnl to support FOs at any point in the transition or post-transition process.  This
process v ill conti11ue until the transition stage in all targeted watercourses in a cluster has been completed,
at wNhicch point the SO will move on to his/lher next desigilated cluster to continue the process.
53.            Field staff capacity and farner receptivity will both factor significantly il the timing and
success of CDSG field operations. The size and deployment of field staff will also be influenced by the
extent to whiich NGOs are engaged in field implementation of CDSG social mobilization activities.
54.    Training.      The CDSG core staff will develop curriculum and materials for training the social
mobi I ization field staff in the principles of participatory community development, and appropriate methods
for mobilizling farmer participation in FOs. Core staff will also develop training modules for FOs in
record keeping and fiianicial manageinent that can be taught by SOs in the field. The core staff will
organize and facilitate all project start-up traininig workshops and semilars, and subsequent refresher
courses for project field staff. In addition, the core staff will also work with the Department of Irrigation
and OFWM  to develop short introductory courses in hydrology, irrigation engineering, tubewell
mechianiics, watcr resource management and agronomy for the social mobilization field team members.
55.           Semin1ars will be organized for field staff every three months. These seminars will create
an opportunity for SOs to share experiences and lessons learned in their efforts to organize farmers. The
seminiars will also provide an opportunity to improve field training materials and to fine-tune the project's
overall farner participation approach. SOs will also bring together a number of FO leaders three times
per year for discussions on water resource management, problem solving, and the sharing of information
and experience. These discussions will serve as a foundation for developing a model for the establishment
of federations of FOs to manage the secondary levels of the canal systems such as distributaries and minor
canals.
56.    The Farmer Organization Development Plan.           The Government of Punjab has established
PMU and its staffing would be completed by the negotiations. The recruitment of social and management
consultanlts has started and it would be completed by June, 1996. Social mobilization consultants will be
in the field by end July, 1996 and start recruitment of SOs. Recruitment of SOs (about 20 SOs and
support staff for transferring first batch of STWs) and establishment of field offices will be completed by
the end September, 1996 (Chart- I ). Training of SOs will be a continuous process, however, the first batch
will be completed by the end of November, 1996. Social mobilization will start fully from January, 1997
and about 300 STWs would be transferred by June 30, 1997. The cumulative transfer progress would
be about 1,300 by June 30, 1998, 2,300 by June 30, 1999, about 3,300 by June 30, 2000 and 4,233 by
Junie 30. 2001.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.           Local consultancy services in project monitoring and evaluation will be required to study
and assess the success of the project in meeting the objectives cited above, and to assess the physical,
social and economic impact of the project on the project area and its inhabitants.  The Project
Implementation and Evaluation (PIES) consultanits will assess: (i) impact of the project on water use and
equity in the distribution of water resources; (ii) performance of likely sustainability of FOs; and (iii)
performance of technical assistance contractors in supporting the management and implementation of all



Annex 4
-97-                                  Page 17 of 17
project initiatives.
58.           PIE consultants will be required to develop a case study methodology to monitor and
assess the effectiveness of both CDSG and OFWM FO formation efforts, and the impact that the transition
from reliance on STWs to CTWs installed by FOs has on the equitable distribution of water resources and
the incomes of participating farmers.  Specifically, the PIE consultants will consider:
(a)    The effectiveness of CDSG training and support to Social Organizers responsible for the
implementation of its social mobilization program, particularly in the formation of FOs
and the subsequent provision of technical services to improve on farm water management;
(b)    The extent to which FOs are formed and successfully install, operate and maintain CTWs.
(c)    The impact of transition from STWs to CTWs on the conjunctive use of water for
irrigation, and the consequences for water supply reliability for watercourse tailend users.
(d)    Changes in cropping patterns, including a shift towards production of higher value crops,
increased cropping intensities and improved crop yields that result from project activities;
59.           PIE studies will combine both quantitative and qualitative methods. Quantitative methods
will include socio-economic baseline surveys of a purposive sample of targeted watercourses . The
watercourse survey sample will include watercourses targeted by the project as well as watercourses that
lie outside of the project area. These non-project area watercourses will constitute a control that provides
project managers with data on socioeconomic, agronomic and hydrological developments independent of
project inputs. Sample watercourses will be monitored on a biannual basis during the course of the rabi
and kharif cropping seasons over the life of the project to measure project impact against baseline data.
60.           Qualitative data gathering methods will be employed to compile more detailed and
continuous data on project impact and sustainability than is generally derived from quantitative survey
instruments, and as a check on the reliability of survey data. Data gathering methods will include regular
semi-structured interviews of key informants and focus groups, and participant observation (e.g., overnight
stays in villages and participation in FO activities).



Annex 5
-93-                                     Page I of 5
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Groundwater Management and Regulation
L. BACKGROUND
Agriculture is the main economic base of Pakistan. Because of climatic conditions
irrigatioii is essential for sustained agricultural production.  Even though irrigation has existed for
centuries. the relatively recent expansion of surface water delivery systems has resulted in significant
hydrological changes. The additional supplies of surface water to the irrigated land without appropriate
drainage facilities has resulted in increased groundwater levels causing either waterlogged areas or saline
intrusioni or both. The Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARP) were commenced in the
1960's to conitrol waterlogginig and salinity in irrigated areas.  Large size tubewells operated and
maintained by the Government were installed under these projects. While the SCARP tubewells were
largely successful in controlling waterlogging and salinity their performance declined due to lack of funds
for O&M and poor management. In addition to drainage, tubewells in fresh groundwater area provide
substantial irrigation supplies, supplementing the canal water. Because the farmers saw the viability and
advantages of groundwater development, a very large number of private tubewells (PTW) have been
installed. This had the affect of lowering groundwater levels, and in some locations, encouraging saline
water intrision inito fresh water zones.  There are several reasons for excessive pumpage from
grounidwater. Due to inequitable distribution of surface supplies in some areas groundwater is the only
source for irrigation specifically towards the tails of the surface systems. Lack of knowledge about crop
water requirements and the use of flat rate charges for electricity are also contributing factors to the
overdraft.
2.            The groundwater records indicate that the water tables in fresh areas in general are falling
slowly. This coupled with the continued proliferation of PTWs could potentially damage the groundwater
aquifers. A plan for managinig the groundwater resources should be considered at this stage to avoid
problems whiich could arise due unregulated development.  Therefore, as a part of the project, a
groundwater management plan applicable to all aquifers in Punjab would be developed. This annex
provides an outlile of methodology for developing groundwater management and regulation and plan for
its implementation.
11. EXISTING LEGISLATION & REGULATIONS
I.     Punjab Soil Reclamation Act, 1952
Applicable Provisions
defines tube-well as "well worked with electric or thermal power to draw out sub-soil
water" (Chapter I para 2).
authorizes the Board, to prevent waterlogging and salinity, "to provide for the installation,
management and maintenance of tubewells and disposal of underground water by other
means"; "the draining of villages and land"; "replacement of canal water supply by



-99-                                      Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
tubewell or open well in part or whole"; "the temporary increase or decrease of water
allowance to any area or total curtailment of water supply"; "the prohibition of growing
of any crops or laying down any specific crop rotation". (Chapter IV, para 17).
"As soon as a scheme ... is sanctioned as notified ... the use of underground waters in that
area except the water used for domestic purposes or for watering livestock shall come
Linder control of the Board". (Chapter IV, para 26).
In the area for whichi the scheme has been sanctioned the Board may order any tubewell
for using groundwater, to be closed down either temporarily during specified period of
the year or permanently, provided that such shall order not prohibit use of underground
waters by any owner or occupier of land for domestic purposes and for watering livestock.
For the improvement, reclamation and lowering of sub-soil water table in any local area...
the Board may - direct in respect to any area - the permitting by the owners and occupiers
of setting tubewells and borings and use of water therefrom in place of that canal".
(Chapter V, para 28)
Discussion
Although the main objective of the Soil Reclamation Act at the time of its enactment was
controlling waterlogging and salinity, the Act has provision for controlling the
groundwater use when such use has adverse effect on the resources.
T he Punjab Government issues a series of rules (1965) for safe exploitation of
groundwater aquifers. These rules included requirement for a license for installing
tubewells in the areas declared as project by the Government, procedures and forms for
obtaining license, and established license fees.
Powers of the Board changed from time to time. The executive powers are now exercised
by the Secretary, Irrigation and Power Development (effective January 3 1, 1973).
T here is no evidence that the Rule above was ever implemented.
2.     West Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Act 1958.
Applicable Provisions
-      "subject to the provision of any other law for the time being in force, the Authority --shall
have control over the underground water resources of any regime in West Pakistan" (para
11).
-      "before the Authority exercises control ... the area over which and the extent to which and
the extent to which control is intended to be exercised shall be agreed to and notified by
the Government in the official Gazette" (para I I).
Discussion
No evidence of any issuing of required rules.
WAPDA is a Federal agency and since the Pakistan Constitution reserves the control over
water to the Provinces there is some question as to the actual authority of WAPDA to
regulate groundwater.



-100-                          ~~~~~~~Annex 5
-100-                                  Page 3 of 5
3.     Punjab Local Government Ordinance, 1979
(Similar Ordinances for the Provinces - both rural and urban councils).
Applicable Provision
-      "All private sources of water supply within the local area of the urban local council shall
be subject to control, regulation and inspection by the urban local council".
Discussion:   No known regulation or enforcement.
Related Matters
4.     The Preamble to the WAPDA Act provides for the unified and coordinated development of the
water and power resources of Pakistan. It also extends WAPDA's control over the groundwater aquifers,
however, this control is in the context of controlling waterlogging and salinity. In accordance with the
Preamble WAPDA collects, analyzes and publishes surface and groundwater data. Although water quality
data collection is now limited to SCARP areas with increased staff the program could cover the whole
country. WAPDA also collects climatology data nationally.
Conclusions
5.     Neither the Government of Pakistan nor any Provincial Government has undertaken groundwater
regulation except for spacing of wells in SCARP areas. The control provisions in WAPDA Act may be
limited by the Constitutional provision of water being the subject of Provinces. The Soil Reclamation Act
of 1952 with its amendments appears to be most specific legislation about controlling installation of
tubewells where these have ill effects oii the resources.
6.    In any event WAPDA would be responsible for overall monitoring of the basins' surface and
groundwater resource, inter-provincial transfers of surface, ground and drainage waters. Even though
WAPDA could perhaps be designated as the groundwater regulating agency with some relatively minor
legal changes, a conflict could arise between the development arm of WAPDA and the regulatory element
which is better suited for provincial and local Governments. Therefore, separate institutional setup with
representative of the Govermnent and water users or Farmers' Organizations should be considered for
enforcing groundwater regulations. In addition regulatory framework should have a mechanism for self-
management at the local level. The detailed institutional structure for implementation of regulations would
be developed during the project as part of the groundwater regulatory program.
III. DEVELOPMENT OF REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
7.            No work has been done in Pakistan about developing a regulatory framework to manage
the groundwater aquifer with falling water tables. This is due to the reason that until now rising and not
falling water tables were the major problem affecting the agricultural production. Considerable amount
of data gathering, modelling and analysis is needed before starting the enforcement of regulations
controlling the groundwater use. The program of developing regulation and their implementation would
consist of three phases; (i) in the first phase, the groundwater management areas will be established based
on the existing information ; (ii) in the second phase critical areas for groundwater management would
be identified, detailed data collection and monitoring would be carried out in the critical areas, and safe
yields of aquifers and groundwater rights would be determined; (iii) in the third phase a procedure for



-101-                                      Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
regulating the groundwater use in each critical areas, and institutional structure would be developed.
8.     Establishment of Management Areas.        For ease in management of the groundwater basins
the groundwater aquifers in Punjab will be divided into different Groundwater Management areas, based
on existing data, and considering behavior and quality of groundwater aquifers, hydrological and
meteorological data, topographic and geological information, canal command areas, surface water
application, efficiency of use, and cropping patterns, etc. During this phase a database consisting of basic
information for each management areas would also be developed which will be updated on a continuous
basis. The sources of major aquifer recharge as well as extractions will be identified in each management
area. This phase would be completed in a period of one year.
9.     Establishing Critical Areas and Groundwater Rights.     In parallel to establishing the
Groundwater Management areas, the critical areas requiring extensive management would be identified.
The groundwater models would be developed, and calibrated to simulate the groundwater behavior over
a long period including wet and dry cycles. Using the simulation models and monitoring information,
rights to the groundwater will be established by distributary command area, watercourse command (chak)
and by farm. Detailed data collection will be carried out for calibration of the model, and developing a
database for eventual regulation of groundwater use for the critical areas. This phase will be completed
by the second year of the project.
10.    Procedures for Regulation and Institutional Structure.   In preparing the groundwater
regulation procedure the emphasis would be given to simple rules, and self regulating systems tested
around some pilot operations. Basing on the safe yields of the aquifer in the long run (considering wet
and dry cycles), pattern of groundwater water use in the critical areas, utilization rates of private,
community and public tubewells, estimates will be made for safe installed capacity by watercourse
command, as well as by distributaries. For foreseeable future the regulation will be based on the installed
capacity of the tubewells which will be correlated to the actual groundwater extractions through empirical
studies and simulation models. A program for licensing the groundwater tubewells with an objective
towards achieving safe installed capacity will be instituted. In issuing the tubewell licenses preference will
be give to community tubewells supplying to several users in chak. The detailed institutional setup for
groundwater management in each management area will vary depending upon the type and the severity
of the problem. Overall responsibility for regulation of groundwater would be given to an independent
body. This phase would be completed in third project year.
11.    Pilots for Groundwater Management.        As part of developing effective groundwater
regulation strategy a few pilots would be implemented before refining the regulation procedures. The
objectives of the pilots would be to test and evolve most effective methods for groundwater management,
assessment of the extent of regulation required, effectiveness of allocation and distribution of groundwater
rights, and roles of the regulating and monitoring agencies, surface water and drainage agencies, the
farmers and their organizations, local governments and NGOs in implementation of the groundwater
regulations.
12.   Implementation.       The implementation strategy for groundwater management would depend
on the type of groundwater problem in each management area. In areas where water table is still rising,
installation of community tubewells will be encouraged by forming effective FOs through social
mobilization programs, dissemination of the groundwater monitoring information to FOs and teaching
effective water conservation measures to reduce the surface water losses to the groundwater. In areas with
marginal quality groundwater, techniques of improved conjunctive use and saline irrigation would be
disseminated to the FOs. A complete solution would be developed in such areas as the capability of the



-102-                          ~~~~~~~Annex 5
-102-                                   Page 5 of 5
FOs build up, its size becomes larger, covering more than a watercourse command (preferably a
distributary), major problems of inequity in surface water distribution are addressed (to some extent), as
well as provincial capability for regulation in these areas builds up.
13.          In areas where a balance have been achieved or water tables are falling, a program of
licensing the groundwater tubewells will be started during the last two years of the project. At the same
time, suitable mechanisms for increasing the recharge to the fresh groundwater aquifers would be
investigated. A comprehensive public information program would be developed outlining the current
groundwater situation and consequences if the present situation continues. Forming FOs would be a
condition for issuing tubewell licenses. For these areas a local as well as umbrella regulating agency
would be developed. Other important elements of regulation would include, development of self-
regulating systems, and regulation of drilling operations.
14.    Self Regulating Systems.    The best way to a create suitable environment for the development
self regulating system is to install community tubewells (CTWs) instead of individually owned tubewells.
With CTWs excessive installation could be avoided, taking better advantage of conjunctive surface and
groundwater use, and pumpage would be regulated by the availability and the capacity of the surface
system itself. In order to make the system fully self regulating the FOs should be large enough so that
over pumping or saline water intrusion has a direct impact on their cost of operation. This would be a
longer term objective and it has to be achieved through reforms in the surface water distribution systems,
where canal command level management would be entrusted to the Public Utilities and effective FOs
would be developed to management the O&M of the distributary systems.
15.    Drilling Operations.  Licensing drillers could include a testing of the driller's knowledge of
tubewell drilling, requirements of regulatory agency and groundwater protection. To begin with as an
alternative to licensing the drillers, regulating agency would maintain a register of drillers in the
management area. In the longer run, however, the drillers would have to be licensed. In any event,
drillers would be required to provide certain information (depth, formations, depth to water, water samples,
etc.) to the regulatory agency for the continuing purpose of evaluating the groundwater basins.
16.    Permit to Install tubewell.   A permit to drill could be accommodated before the drilling
operation phase and a permit to withdraw handled later. However, in most cases a water user would
accomplish both prior to drilling. Permits could be conditioned on discharge capacity limits, depth to
water limit, size of casing, size of pump, and type electric or diesel. However, with the possibility of self-
regulation the FOR may want the individual users to measure or estimate pumping (keeping logbooks,
measuring drawdown, etc.). Tubewells for domestic, and livestock purposes would be exempted from
permits.



-103-                                       Annex 6
Page I of 6
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Terms of Reference
for
Project Impact Evaluation (PIE)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.            The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) for a Credit to meet part of the cost of the proposed Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development (PGD) Project.  The project is being implemented by the Government of Punjab
(GOPunjab). A Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Planning & Development Board of GOPunjab
is responsible for overall project management and coordination. The Punjab Irrigation Department (PID)
and the Directorate Gieneral of Water Management (OFWM) in the Agricultural Departments are the co-
implementing agencies. These terms of reference are for professional and technical services in various
fields for carrying out project impact evaluation studies (PIES).
2.     Project Objectives.   The overall objectives of the PGD Project are to increase the scope and
productivity of Punjab's irrigation and drainage subsector and increase farmer's incomes. Its specific
objectives are to: (a) redefine government's role in groundwater development with a greater role for the
private sector; (b) develop a regulatory framework and a monitoring program to ensure sustainable use
of the groundwater resources; (c) develop sustainable farmers organizations (FOs) which can efficiently
operate and maintain groundwater irrigation, improve surface irrigation, and establish a base for
participation in the management of the canal systems; (d) rationalize public expenditure on O&M of the
irrigation and drainage systems as well as increase the recovery of public expenditures on irrigation
infrastructure; and (e) avoid environmental hazard of saline water intrusioni into freshi grounidwater
aquifers.
3.     Project Description.  The proposed five-year (FY97-2001) project would cover the fresh
groundwater areas (FGW) of SCARP 11 (including Shahpur), SCARP Ill (Rangpur Unit), SCARP IV and
SCARP V (Shorkot Kamalia) located in administrative divisions of Sargodha, Gujranwala, Faisalabad, and
Lahore. It also includes saline groundwater (SGWs) areas within or at the boundaries of FGW areas. The
gross area is about 1.455 million ha of which about 1.193 million ha have FGW, while the CCA is about
1.292 million hectares of which about 1.068 million hectares have FGW. The major project components
are: (a) privatization of SCARP tubewells (STWs); (b) development of groundwater monitoring and
regulatory framework; (c) improvement of irrigation facilities in fresh groundwater areas, including
improvement of watercourses; (d) prevention of saline groundwater intrusion into fresh aquifers, including
rehabilitation of drainage tubewells, aild lining of watercourses in saline groundwater areas; (e) monitoring
and evaluation; (f) technical assistance and training; (g) project management and supervision.
4.            The proposed project will privatize approximately 4,200 SCARP tubewells (STWs)26.
The project will support the formation of FOs, and, through them, the establishment of privately operated
community tubewells (CTWs) to replace government-operated STWs throughout the project area. The
objective of this project activity is to develop FOs that can efficiently operate and maintain surface and
Ofwhich 2,458 STWs are located in SCARPs 11 and Shahpur, 1,001 in SCARP IV, 570 in SCARP III (Rangpur unit),
and 101 in SCARP V.



Annex 6
-104-                                   Page 2 of 6
groundwater resources for irrigated agriculture in Punjab on a sustainable basis. To achieve this objective,
the project will support the development of a social mobilization program within the Project Management
Unit (PMU). The PMU will have overall responsibility for the project's social mobilization efforts
through a Community Development Support Group (CDSG) recruited as consultancy services. The CDSG
team will consist of: (a) core staff responsible for CDSG field staff training and management, and social
mobilization program coordination; and (b) field staff of Social Organizers (SOs) working with the help
of NGOs and village level social activists to mobilize farmer participation in project activities. CDSG will
have responsibility for the privatization of approximately 2,700, or two-thirds of the STWs targeted for
privatization. The CDSG will also be responsible for assisting the PID in promoting farmer
participation in canal lining, and watch and ward as well as O&M of drainage tubewells
rehabilitated under the project. The Directorate of OFWM will be responsible for privatizing the
remaining 1,500 STWs in conjunction with a program of project-supported w/c improvement.
II. SCOPE OF PIE CONSULTING SERVICES
Description of Assignment
5.            The PMU will engage a consulting firm or an independent organization, following IDA
guidelines, to carry out project impact evaluation studies (PIES). The main objectives of PIES are to
evaluate the success in meeting the project objectives, and to assess its physical, agricultural, social,
financial/fiscal, and economic impact. The PIES would also provide independent and continuous feed
back to the implementing agencies on the project's performance and impact of its various components,
so that corrective action or fine tuning could be undertaken in a timely manner. The PIE studies would
include, but not be limited to, monitoring and evaluating the following:
a.     Physical Aspects:
i.    The capacity utilization of private tubewells (PTWs), and Community tubewells
(CTWs), the impact of the project on total groundwater abstraction, the
groundwater table and sustainability of aquifer;
ii.    the types, capacities, costs, and operating factors of STWs, PTWs, CTWs; and the
relative efficiencies of use of water from STWs, PTWs, and CTWs;
iii.   the nature and extent of water markets, seasonal variations in water sales by
PTWs and CTWs, and their relative impact on equity of groundwater distribution;
iv.    the impact on shallow as well as deep water quality and the sustainability of
groundwater use for agriculture;
v.    the impact on soil salinity (surface and profile);
vi.   the efficacy of the project interventions --canal and watercourse lining, and
rehabilitation of drainage wells-- in preventing saline water intrusion in fresh
groundwater aquifers; and
vii.   the impact of watercourse improvements on conveyance efficiencies and savings
of canal and CTWs water



-105-                                        Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
b.     Agricultural Aspects:
i.     The impact on cropping patterns, intensities, yields, and shifts towards higher
value crops;
ii.    the changes in the use of agricultural inputs;
iii.    comparison of agricultural productivity of farms receiving canal plus SCARP
tubewells (STWs) water, with those receiving canal plus PTWs water, and canal
plus CTWs water;
iv.    the impact of watercourse improvements, and drainage tubewells rehabilitation on
cropping patterns, intensities, and yields; and
v.     the impact of canal lining on reliability of surface water supplies, particularly in
the tail reaches.
c.     Sociological Aspects:
i.     Case studies and random monitoring of FOs would be carried out to assess:
(I)    their financial viability and sustainability prospects;
(2)    the equity of CTWs water distribution amongst members of FOs, and cost
sharing and O&M arrangements;
(3)    the success or failure of FOs in operating and maintaining CTWs for the
benefit of all its members;
(4)    the impact on small farmers and contribution to poverty alleviation;
(5)    the size and composition of FOs benefiting from CTWs, and those that
rely on canal and canal pus PTWs water only, following the closure of
STWs;
(6)    the potential of FOs to play an increasing role in management of surface
water supplies, O&M of watercourses, minor and distributary canals,
drainage tubewells, and small surface drains; and collection of canal
water charges.
ii.    the effectiveness of the project's approach to community mobilization and the
appropriateness, and timeliness (or otherwise) of the delivery of the project's
incentive package;
iii.   the performance of the community mobilization consultants, OFWM  staff, and
NGOs in establishing viable FOs;
iv.    the impact of transition from STWs to CTWs on the conjunctive use of canal and
groundwater for irrigation, and the consequences for water supply reliability for



-106-                         ~~~~~~~Annex 6
-106-                                   Page 4 of 6
tail-end users.
d.     Financial and Fiscal Aspects:
i.    the impact on the gross and net farm incomes of farmers, including both members
and non-members of FOs;
ii.    the capacity of farmers to pay their share of the costs of CTWs, watercourse
improvement, and canal lining;
iii.   the reduction in the fiscal burden of GOPunjab as a result of the privatization of
STWs; and
iv.    the effectiveness of the altemate use of the funds that become available as a result
of privatization of STWs (i.e whether or not saved funds have been allocated for
O&M of canals).
e.     Economic Aspects:
i.    estimation of the project's overall economic rate of return (ERR) on "before and
after" as well as "with and without project" basis;
ii.    assessment of CTWs versus PTWs as the least cost solution to replacing the
STWs;
iii.   comparison of economic costs of water pumped by PTWs and CTWs;
iv.    assessment of prospects of long term sustainability of fresh groundwater aquifers
in the "with" and "without" project scenarios; and
v.     assessment of the secondary impact of the project on economic activity in the
project area.
Study Methodology
6.            The PIE consultants would make the best use of the MIS and data base developed by the
PMU and PIA consultants. However, they would be responsible for developing their own data base for
appropriate key indicators of the project's impact. They would, augment the PIA consultants' data base,
as necessary, through field observations and studies. The PIE consultants would develop their own
methodology for monitoring and evaluating the impact of various project components. This will include
design, development, testing, and operationalizing a system for monitoring and evaluating the project
impact.



Annex 6
-107-                                    Page 5 of 6
Consultants' Team Composition and Inputs
7.            The consultants team would provide services in various fields over the five year project
implementation period2'. The team would have the following composition and estimated inputs:
Discipline                          No.                   Staff Months
Team Leader                          1                           45
(Socio-economist)
Agri-economist                       1                            10
Irri-agronomist                      1                            10
Sociologist/Anthropologist          3                            45
Senior Agri/Irrig Engineer          2                            40
Junior Agri/Irrig Engineer           6                           360
Junior Agriculturist                 6                           360
Hydro-geologist                      1                            15
Field Enumerators                    8                           160
Computer Analyst                     1                           30
Outputs and Reporting Schedule
8.            The consultants will prepare the following reports, inter alia
a.     An inception report within two months of commencing the assignment;
b.     a baseline/benchmark report within six months of commencing the assignment;
c.     bi-annual reports by cropping season;
d.     quarterly reports on the performance of FOs based on selected case studies as well as
random monitoring;
e.     Annual summary reports;
f.     special reports as may be necessary from time to time on specific assignments;
g.     a preliminary project impact evaluation report to be issued before the Credit Closing date.
III. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
9.            A Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Punjab Planning and Development Board is
responsible for coordinating overall project implementation, and directly implementing some of the project
components. The PMU is composed of a full time Project Director (PD), two ex-officio Members (one
each from the Irrigation Department and the Directorate General of Water Management), and three
Directors as well as support staff.  The PMU would be supported by the PIA consultants for whose
The short-listed consultants should submit their own estimates of staff inputs and team composition.



-108-                                     Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
selection a separate invitation for proposals is being issued. The PMU is responsible for: (a) overall
project management and coordination; (b) development of groundwater regulatory framework; (c)
community development for formation of FOs and establishment of CTWs, including processing and
disbursement of financial assistance to FOs; (d) project performance monitoring & evaluation, including
development of an MIS system; (e) impact evaluation studies; (f) planning, budgeting, maintenance of
consolidated project accounts, and ensuring timely submission of audit reports; (g) procurement of vehicles
and all consulting services required for the project.
10.                 The PID through the Member (Irrigation) of PMU, is responsible for STWs
closures and retrieval of machinery from the bore holes and their capping, canal rehabilitation/lining,
drainage rehabilitation and O&M contracts, and re-deployment of redundant staff.
I I.                The Directorate General of Water Management is responsible for improving
watercourses, and establishing FOs and CTWs in designated areas. Area and field teams would be
established for this purpose. The Member (Water Management) would, inter alia, be responsible for
(i) ensuring close coordination between the PMU and the Directorate General of Water Management.
12.                 The PMU will sign the contract with the selected PIE consultants and hold
responsibility for all matters relating to the management of this contract. The Team Leader of the PIE
consultants will report to the PD PMU through the Director (Regulation) who is responsible for monitoring
and evaluation. The consultants will also report to the Members for (Irrigation) and (Water Management)
for providing PIE feed back relating to canal lining and watercourse improvement and community
mobilization aspects.



Pakistan                                                                              Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                             Page 1 of 14
Table SI: Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs. Million)              Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
1997    1998      1999       2000       2001       Total     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
A. Tubewell Privatization
TransferofSCARPTubewells (STWs)                                   20.8   120.9       129.8      138.9      119.8      530.1      0.6      3.3      3.4     3.4      2.8    13.5
Community Developmentand Support                                  47.0    69.6        58.6       58.0       38.8      272.0      1.4      1.9      1.5     1.4      0.9      7.1
Training and Redeployment of STWVStaff                            14.6    74.3        88.6       95.2       73.9      346.6      0.4      2.0      2.3     2.4      1.8      8.9
Subtotal Tubewell Privatization                                      82.4   264.8      277.0      292.1      232.5    1,148.7      2.4      7.2      7.2     7.2      5.5    29.5
B. Development of Regulatory Framework                              21.0    27.9        14.3       26.0       26.2      115.3      0.6      0.8      0.4     0.6      0.6      3.0
C. Improvement of Irnigation Facilties in FGW Areas
Watercourse Renovation                                             31.2   124.9      248.8      495.8      437.4    1,338.2      0.9      3.4      6.4    12.3    10.4    33.4
Rehabilitation of Canal Structures                                   -        -       47.7       51.1       54.6      153.3        -        -      1.2     1.3      1.3      3.8
Subtotal Improvementof Irigation Facilities in FGWAreas              31.2   124.9      296.6      546.9      492.0    1,491.5      0.9      3.4      7.7    13.6    11.7    37.2
D. Prevention of Saline Groundwater Intrusion
Improvement of Drainage Facilities                                   -        -        2.4        6.3          -        8.7        -        -      0.1     0.2        -      0.2
Canal Improvements in Saline Areas                                 12.0    16.4      115.2      162.8      131.4      437.8      0.3      0.4      3.0     4.0      3.1     10.9
Watercourse Improvements                                           3.3    65.2       247.5      264.8       74.1      655.0      0.1      1.8      6.4     6.6      1.8    16.6
SubtotalPreventUonofSalineGroundwaterlntrusion                       15.3    81.6      365.1      434.0      205.5    1,101.5      0.4      2.2      9.5    10.8      4.9    27.8
E. Monitoring and Evaluation                                           -    22.6        31.0       32.3       26.4      112.3        -      0.6      0.8      0.8     0.6      2.8    O
F. Project Management                                                15.6    17.4       13.4       11.7       12.5       70.6      0.5      0.5      0.3      0.3     0.3      1.9    
G. Technical Assistance and Training                                 16.9    18.4        19.8      21.2       22.6       98.9      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      2.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 182.4   557.5    1,017.2    1,364.0    1,017.7    4,138.8       5.3    15.1    26.4    33.8    24.2   104.8
Table S2: Expenditure Acounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs. Million)               Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
I. Investment Costs                                               1997    1998       1999       2000       2001       Total     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
A. Civil Works
1. Civil Works                                                     18.1    188.5     580.3      812.3      596.7    2,195.9      0.5      5.1     15.0    20.2    14.2    55.0
2. Skilled Labor                                                    0.0    10.6       39.5       61.6       40.7      152.4      0.0      0.3      1.0      1.5      1.0     3.8
3. Unskilled Labor                                                 2.7    41.0       110.0      170.6      122.1      446.4      0.1      1.1      2.9      4.2     2.9    11.2
Subtotal Clvil Works                                                 20.8   240.1      729.8    1,044.5      759.5    2,794.7      0.6      6.5    18.9    25.9    18.0    70.0
B. Administrabon & Operations                                       44.2    66.8        84.1      103.9       95.7      394.6      1.3      1.8      2.2      2.6      2.3    10.1
C. Training                                                          12.4    58.4       67.8       70.9       57.0      266.6      0.4      1.6      1.8      1.8      1.4     6.8
D. Consuling Services                                                47.7    89.3      103.2      110.3       80.2      430.8      1.4      2.4      2.7      2.7      1.9    11.1
E. Equipment                                                         11.5    14.9        0.0        0.0        0.0       26.4      0.3      0.4      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.7
F. Vehicles                                                          40.6    61.8        0.0        0.0        0.0      102.4      1.2      1.7      0.0      0.0      0.0     2.9
G. Severance Package                                                  5.2    26.2        32.2      34.4       25.3      123.3      0.1      0.7      0.8      0.9      0.6      3.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 182.4   557.5    1,017.2    1,364.0    1,017.7    4,138.8       5.3    15.1     26.4    33.8    24.2   104.8



Pakistan                                                                                                Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                             Page 2 of 14
Table S3:Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(Rs million)
Prieventlt of Sene GroundW
Tub*wal Prtvaladon                        bnprovem at dfton                        h
Transfr               Training ad  Deeomel  FacaUtt  hI FGW Amat                         Canal                                         Techical
of SCARP  Commwnty Raduplayrmn          Of                  ReNltion  bhpoveeit   h             lwoveffents      Motrig                 A atne                   Physl
T hu r_t  Development   of *TW      Reguitoy  Wateowa          Of Cana     Of rwnag    hi Salne    Waume            and       Pr*od        and                C        _
T)  m  SWPet             Staff    Frunuwt  Renovation    Stnuctu           Facfie        Aron s                 Evaha                   Trr         Total     %    Am
L  b        Cots
A. CVA Wou-
I. Civlt                               360.0                         -           -       5561           103.5         5.7         258 1        338.5          -                     -   1.622.0      2 3    36.7
2.Skidldbor                                -                         -           -        721                           -             -         42.4                     -                 114.5
3. Uldi Labor                           52.4            -            -                   1966 e                                                 877                      -          -      33 7
U.meu ClvI Winha                         412.5           --                        -        24.5          1035          57         258.1          -66           -          -               2,0733      18    36
B. Ado nifion &oeraions                      -         39.6            *        30.0       117.7                        03           129          18.5        5.5       46.2       37.9      308.8
C. Traq                                                25.0        173.6         5.9           -              -                         -            -                     -        32       207.7
D. Co aV Swws                                -        137.2            -        39 7        27.0                          -          101           8 4       610                   37.6     341.0
E EWM                                                   4.0                      4.2         73                           -           30           2.4                   2.5                 23.4
F Vahi                                       -         14.0            -        12.5        298               -                      194           63                    8 6.7        -      908
G. Swance Pakp                               -                      96.0                                      -           -             -            -          -                     -       96.0       -       -
TOeM  ASEE COSTS                            41Z5        220.1                     923       1.006.6          1T3          8.0         3035         504.2       864-       574         788    3141.0      1.2    ie7 T
PFa  conlr      m                                         -            -.*                     -           104          0.6          25.8            -                                       367
Lond                                  105.8        42.7         770         18.9       307.5           371          19           95.9        1396        172        11.1       10.3      664.9
Foii                                   2.8          2.2            -         10          6.4            0.7         01            3 0          30         21         0.5        2.4       24.0 
_hbalhlalee                           1066         448          7to          199        313.6           377          2.0         9.9          T42.        19.3       11.6       126      e
DevakAon                                  90          71                       3.2        17.7            18          0.2           9.5          82         66         16         7.4      722         -
S.m"W Cor agence.                         117.6        520          770         23.0       331.6           39.5         2.1         1085         150.8       25.9       13.2       20.1     961.1      1.3    127
TeTaiPROJECTCOSTS                           530.1       272.0        36          115.3      1.3362           1533           7         U78          8560       112.3        706        989    4.138.8     1.2    494
Taxes                                     92.0         48.2         112         215         65.7            7.7         04           734          25.9       214        100        120       389.4     15      59
ForsignE2dnge                             45.8         497                      18.3        96.7            92          0.9          465          482        31.3        9.9       418      396.2      11      44



Pakistan                                                                                                Anrex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                             Page 3 0o14
Table S4: Expenditure Accounts by Component - Base Cost
(USS rnillion)
prsvendcf at sunm G0mmwk8mr
T,*.ooI Pv1WaSUaSO                        hunvms ION"ilamhUum
Truhr                  TnSW" d    _DvebpmnW    FPau hi FOW                                                                              Techrmcal
of SCAtP  ComiLty RId*cymlu             of                   fIubbUmln  h          _povuwai "  _m                 Manitofin             AWa                    Physl
Tubawaet D.wlpmuf    d S1W           AgiutOuy  W am.            ci c        f Daulnagp   hI SaMm    Wa_taurh         and       P.mecd ndC_
(3all)                             P Srpputwwok  Rmuh        I Fbucus      FaciMa        An as                   Evakalm              T_T eln S __           %    AM
L bwuaho Comb
A. Ci Wahb
1.t Ch V9Y                               10.9                  -                  -        16.9            31           0.2          7.8         10.3                     -          -    492       2.3     1.1
2. S dL                                     -           -             -           -         2.2              -                        -           1.3          ..                    .      3.5
3. th0a ULbo                              1.6           -                                    .0              -                                    2.7          -                     -     10.2 
s.*and        .uI.                         12.5           -25.0                                              31                                     4.2                                      6287      . 18T  1.1
S. A&*ftVak_S    OperUm                                  1.2           -          0.9         3.5              -         0.0          0.4           0.8        02         1.4        1.1      9.4
C.TJ   9                                      ,         0.8           5.3         02            -              .            .           .             .          .          .        0.1      8.3
D.CawAng Sw J s                                         4.2                       1.2         0.8                                     0.3           0.3        2.5          -        1.1    10.3
E. Eulwl                                      -         0.1            -          0.1         0.2              -                      0.1           0.1                   0.1          -      0.7
F. VWh                                        -         0.4            -          0.4         0.9              -            -         0.8           0.2                   0 3          .      2.
G. Sewui  Pu.                                 .           -           2.9                         -           -             .            -                 -                -                 2.9
T.adIAU hECOS                                  2.5         6.7           2          2.6         30              3.1         0.2          9215.                    28         1.7        24     9        12       11         H
dC          eide                              -           -             -           -           -            0.3         0o0          0.8                                                     1.1                        F
Pius ceungawnd
LOGO                                    3.2         1.3           2.3         0.8         9.3            1.1         0.1          2.9           4.2        0.5        03         0.3    26.2
FMiP                                    0.1         0.1            -          0.0         0.2            0.0         0.0          0.1           0.1        01         0.0        0.1      0.7
Su_*t udhdMn                              3.3          1.4          2.3         0.6         9.5            1 1          0.1        3T             4.3.                  0.4        0.4    289         - 
DeviOn                                   -2.3        -0.9          -1.6        -0.4         ^.8           -0.8         -0.0         -2.0         -3.0       -0.4       -02         -0.2   -18.4
5&          FCiculPm i.                     1.0         0.5           0.7         02          29             0.3          0.0          1.0          1.3        0.2        0.1        0.2      8.5     13      01
TndPROMECTCOSTS                               13.5         71           89          30          334             36          0.2         109          16           28         1.9        2.6   104.8    1.2       1.2
Tom                                         2.3          1.3          0.3         06          1.7            0.2          0.0          1.9          0.7        0 5        0.3        0.3    10.0      1.5     0.1
FoMi     r Emg                              1.2          1.3            -         0.5         2.4            0.2          0.0          1.2          1 2        0 8        0.3         1 1    10.2     1 1     0.1



Pakistan                                                                                        Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                     Page 4 of 14
Table S5:Expenditure Accounts by Component - Totals Including Contingencies
(Rs. million)
Prevention of Saline Groundwater
Tubewell Privatizabon                     Improvement of Irrigation                Intrusion
Transfer              Training end  Development  Facilities in FGW Areas                  Canal                                         Technical
of SCARP  Community  Redeployment       of                   Rehabilitation  Improvement Improvements             Monitoring            Assistance
Tubowells Development   of STW      Regulatory  Watercourse    of Canal    of Drainage   in Saline    Watercoume     and       Project      and
(STWs)  and Support      Staff     Framework  Renovation    Structures     Facilities    Areas    Improvemennt  Evaluation Management  Training      Total
I. Invetment Costs
A. Civil Woirts
I CivilWorks                          4627            -            -            -       74B8           1533          83          3822         4405           -           -          -    2,1959
2 Skilled Labor                           -           -            -            -        971               -           -             -         SS2           -           -          -     152 4
3 Unsluiled Labor                      67 4           -             -           -       264 9              -           -             -        114 2          -           -          -     446 4
Subotel Civil Works                     530 1           -             -           -      1,110 8         153 3          8 3        382 2        609 9          -           -          -    2,794.7
8 AdmSnistraion&Opertmons                   -        50.0            -         406        1491               -         04           174          243         71         580        477      394.6
C Traing                                    -        31.9         223.3         74            -              -           -             -            -          -           -        4 0     266.6
D ConsultigSearvs                           -        169.8           -         485         363               -           -          130          10.9      105.2           -       471      4308
E. Eqpnrt                                   -         4.5            -          48          82               -           -           33           2.7          -         2.9          -      264
F. Vhicb                                   -         15.8            -        14 0        33.8              -           -          21 8          71           -         9.8          -     102 4
G. SeverePcaa                               -           -         1233            -           -              -                  -            -                 -           -          -     123.3 
TotaIPROJECTCOSTS                          530.1       272.0        346.6        115.3     1,338.2          1533          87         437.8         6550       1123        706        989    4,138.8 
Tax"                                     920         48.2          112         215         657             7.7          04          734          25.9       214         100        120      3894
Foreig Exchnnge                          45.8        4917            -         18 3        96 7            9.2         0.9          46 5         48 2       31 3         9 9       41.8     398.2



Pakistan                                                                                          Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                        Page 5 of 14
Table S6: Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS millions)
Prventon of Salin. Groundar
Tubowll Privatzaion                         InWrovemnt of rigadon                     Intrusion
Transfer               Training nd  Development   Facilitie In FGW Ao                        Cl                                              Technkal
of SCARP  Commnity  RedFployment         Of                    RehdAlaon   Improvent IfWveent                         Monitoring             Ass
Tubwells Developent    of STW        Regulatory  Watecoure        of canal    of DraInge    In Saline    Watcouree       and       Proecd       and
(STW.)  and Supporl      Stuff      Frwmework   Renovation    Stuctures       Facilte        Arom      Ipvn          Evaluation  MInagemnt  TraIning    Total
L Inv-e_hm Cost
A. vl Wou
1 Civi  orks                             11.8                         -                      18 6             3.8         0 2           9 5          11.2                      -          -    55 0
2 Sed Labor                                                                                   2.4                     -                               1 4          -           -           -      3.8
3.U likded Labor                          1.7            -                                    6 6.6                         -             -           2.9                                       11.2
Sub- tMCivllWo                             13.5            -             -           -         27.5             3.8         0.2           9.5          15.5          -           -           -    70.0
B. Adiiistrion &Opabons                       -          1.3                       1.0          38                -         0.0           0.4           0.6        0.2         1.5         1.2    10.1
C. Tmwtig                                                0.8           5.7          02                                  -                   -             -          -           -         0.1     6.8
D. CoNsksarviS                                -          4.4             -         13           0.9               -           -           03            03          27           -         1.2    11.1 
E. EWpnnt                                                0.1                       01           02                -           -           0.1           0.1          -         0.1           -     0. 7
F. Ve\ e                                      -          0.4             -         0.4          0.9               -                       0 6           0.2          -         03            -     2.9
G. Severan  Pau                               -            -           3.2                  -             -             -                   -             -          -           -           -     3.2
To  PROJECTCOST8                              135          71            8.9          30          334             3.8          0.2          10.9         16.6         2.8         1.9        2.6   104.8
Tom                                         2.3          1.3           0.3         0.6          1.7             0.2          0.0          1.9           0.7         0.5        0.3         0.3    10.0
ForeignEExdm                                1.2          1.3             -         0.5          2.4             0.2          0.0          12            12         0.8         0.3         1.1    10.2



Pakistan                                                                                                                Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                               Page 6 of 14
Table 1: Transfer of SCARP Tubewells (STWs)
Detailed Costs (Rs. '000)
Parumtrs (In %)
Quantifes                                    Unit Cot -                            Bees Cost - Neobn                                 Cont    For.    Gros
Untt      1117        84            im           2000         2001         Total     Negotbtion     1117         1            It"          2000        2001        Total      Rats    Exmh.  Tax Rats
1. Inveabenm Coats
K Transfer 1 end 3 cuse) ls
EqmpTduandilMsnalo                      WON             5            40            40            40         25            ISO         142         710        5678         5678         5678        3549       2.1294       00      0.0       0.0
Unsk_ddLat,or                           VA              5            40            40            40         25            150          22         10.9        87.4         87.4         874         546         3276       00      00        00
S    _ubi Transfer (I and 3 cumc)                                                                                                                   01          6552         55 2        655 2       409.5       2,457.0
6. Nlated ih
Equipn mwid Mateils                      Wm           100           400           400           400        343          1,643        320       3.0762      15.504.9     15,504.9     15,504.9    13,25.4    63,686.2   0  1 0100           20.0
Unsied L1t                               wo           100           400           400           400        343          1,643          7 4       742.6      2,970.2     2,970.2      2,970.2     2.547 0     12,200 3      0 0     0.0       0.0
Sb Mld                                                                                                                                           4,618.0     18,475.1     10,415.1     18,4751     15.8424      75,884
C. NOW
EWvt wud MahiNl                         wes           200         1,150          1,150        1,150        917          4,567         644    12,8843       74.084.8     74,0848      74,084.8    59,074.8    294,213.3 0  1 0100            20.0
UnsumsdLaobr                             m9           200          1,150         1.150        1,150        917          4.567          07      1,7472      10,046.4     10,046.4     10,046.4    8,0109      39.8973       00      00        0.0
Subet New                                                                                                                                       14,6315      84.1312      84,1312      84,131.2    67,085.5    334,110.7
Totl                                                                                                                                               19,3322    103,261. 5    103,265    103261.5    83,3374    412.4541
la STWs Il m ner by  wn v   v ne  r       One cumaee  we hi SCARP Stow.
lb STWo Sn over non          1n  Is aumd VW  0% aS b         Ie to  e   an Cae vd* 20% foind reman iml2ed



Pakistan                                                                                                                         Annex 7
Punjab Privatle Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                                         Page 7 of 14
Table 2: Social Mobilization Teams
Detailed Costs (Rs '000)
P-ameters (mo  )
Phy.
Quantites                                         Und Cost -                           Base Cost - Negotiation                            Cont.    For.    Gross
Uni        1997          1999          1999           2000          2001          Total      Negotiation      1997        1998       1999         2000         2001        Total       Rate    Euch.  Tar Rate
1. tone strrent Costs
A. SocalI Mobili-taton Teams
1. Field Staff /a
SOCIal Coodinalors(SCs)                         slanyr             4             4              4             4              4            20         4150       160 10 1690             t.6598      1 598        16598        8.2992       00       00       200
Tec-hrcal Coonlinator                          sMalty,                           8              8             0              a            40         273 0      2.1a4 0     2.14 04     2.1U 0      2 184 0      2184 0       0.o920        a xc    0.0      20 0
Soc.lOrgaozer,s(SOs) lb                         stWryr            20            60            60             60             25           225         1966       3.9312     11.7936     11.7936     117936        49140       44.2260       00       00       200
Irngatron Eng.eer                               stalfyr            4             4             4              4              4            20         273 0      1 092 0     1.092 0     1.092 0     1.092 0      1.092 0      5 460 0      0 0      0 0      20.0
Agrnuftural Economrtt                           statyt             4             4              4             4              4            20         273 0      1 092 0     1 092 0     1.092 0     1.092 0      1.092 0      5.460 0      0 0      0 0      20.0
S.r-eyors                                       saltyr             5             9             e              0              a            40         1010       1.0483      1.0492      1.0483      1.0493       10403        5.2416       0.0      00       200
Soppoot Staff                                   UnItyr             5            20            20             20             12            s0         131 0      1.0403     2.6209       2.6205      2.6208       1.5725      10.4832       0.0      00       200
Subtotal Field Statf                                                                                                                                             12.055.7    21.490 6    21.490 6     21.490 6    13.562 6     90.090 0
2 Eqouprr,enl                                     amount                                                                                                          1451 9      1.4519            -                               2 903 8      0 0     20 0       50.0
3 Vehicks                                         amount                                                                                                           457 4      6 434 3           -                              11 891 6      0.0     30 0      S0 0
4 Openrttg E*endedores                             sum                                                                                                            6.322 3     6 322 3     6.322 3     6 322 3      6 322 3     31 611 5      0.0      7 0        5 0
S Promoton Ltouerials Ic                           sum                                                                                                             548 0        546.0       546 0       546 0       546 0       2.729 8      0 0      7.0       5 0
9. Training
Trannrg ton SOs and SCs (I mroth)                mo              20             60            40                             -           120          21 0       438 8      1.310 3      8735                                2.620 6      0 0      7.0       0.0
FarmerrTnirern  (1 week)                         ok             300           t,ee          1.600         1600           1300          9.400           3 5      1.048 3     5.5910      5.591.0     5.5910      4.542 7      22.364 2      0.0      0.0       50
Subtotal Tanomio                                                                                                                                                  1,485.1     6,901 4     6.464 6      5.591 0     4.542 7     24994.98
Subtotal Soial Mobiization Tersf                                                                                                                                  27.31e3    431146.4    34.e234       3309499     2469739     104.211.
B. Corn Team
1. staff
TeamnLeal                                      staffmo            12            12             12             9              .            45 6       947        7.9561      7.8061      7.851i      5.0921            .      29.4605       00      00.0      20.0       1-
DeputyTeomLeader                               staffmo            12            12             12            12             12           o0           794        9173        9173        9173         9173        9173        4.5s84       00       0.0      200        Ul
Social Organbtiton E9ert                       S1dffmo             5             5              3             2              .            15         6547       3.2734      3.2734      1.954.0     1.3094                    9.820.2      0.0     s00       20.0
TSu4Vel Speclal                                slallo              3             2              --                                         5         6047       1.8640      13             . 4                        .       3273.4       00      s0 0      20 0
Subtotal Stat                                                                                                                                                    14.0tO.8    13.356 2    10,737 4      9.119 7       91 73     .47.140.4
2 Eqouipm e                                       arrunl                                                                                                            5450.       5597            -                        -      1.1026       00      20.0       50.0
3 Vehides                                         amounl                                                                                                            7940      1.3162                        -                   2150.2       0.0     30.0       50.0
4 Operatkrg E,tlpSus                              amount                                                                                                          1.091 9     1.091.9     1.091.9      1.0919      1.0919       5.459 7      0.0      7.0        5.0
Subtotal Coe Tem                                                                                                                                                   196412.6    169391.0    11,929.4      8.2107      2.0092      55852.8
Totl                                                                                                                                                                  43.731 .0   59.537 4    4e,952 8    43.10 5    29.992.9    220.0945
ia Annual COSS odeS flies and adl a1tan.
uS One SO a ewded to cnerr abot 12 ST0s per year.
Ic Leaf-ts. I ;Pely iem_, etc.
Table 3: Training and Redeployment of STW Staff
Detailed Costs (Rs 'tOO)
PwAsssn  itn %)
Phsy.
Qurnatties                                        Unet Coan -                          Bae Coal -         nlegott                         Coet    For.    ersa
UnO        I"97          it            18m            2000          2001          To Nl             ion      1897        19"          i           20100       ae1          Tat        R_ft     Eath   TaX Ra
1. tn_eabis4 Coats
A Trainig                                     person             180           750            820           825            917          3172 54.73              8757.5    41,00.9    44,9Q2.3    45.155.9    33,771.2    173,8178            0        0         5
8 Smnr    Paagea                              staff              150           700            ON0           800            550          3000 3200               4,800.0    2240008    29,8oo.0    25,80Oo       17,.00.0     95,999.9        0        0         0
Totl                                                                                                                                                               13.5575    63,490.8    70,42.2    70.755.9    91,371.2    269,6177



Pakistan                                                                                                                    Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                                 Page 8 of 14
Table 4: Development of Regulatory Framework
Detailed Cost (Rs '000)
ParamUten (in %)
Phy.
1 Ountktes                              Unt Cost.                           Base Cost - N1.gtiaeon.                        Cot.   For.    Groat
Unit       l1111     11iii1      lil        2000        2001       Total    Negolastion    lit1?       l119l      till        2000        2001       Total     Rafts    Each.  Tio Raft
1. Isnoadboet Cots
A. Ground e Modelling
Modan Specla51i                                              statttmo          2           1                     .                      4         5.4 7    1.309 4      954 7      654 7                       -     2,1 7       0.0    80.0      20.0
ModelgTsnTttm                                                stalfm          100         120        20           -                    240         874      81.7360    104832      17472            -                20,9864      0.0      00      200
Supporttlaff                                                 stanmo           1 2         12        12           -                     36         109       13100       1310       1310            .                  3931       00      00       20.0
Oprting Elnsdl                                               amouol                                                                                           46 0      546 0      S4S0            -           -     1,637 9     0 0     7 0       5 0
Sludy Tour and Training                                      arounl                                                                                         654 9       654 9      654 9           -           -     1,964 8     0 0    S0 0       5 0
Subtotal GMounrdter IodLng                                                                                                                                  11.377 3    12 469 8    3.7338           -          -    27,50 9
S. De_lopmat of Rsguaory Frarwort
Groundster Rglatm Spck                                       slammo             -                    2           2          2           6        654 7          -           -     1 309 4     1.309 4    1 309 4     3.928 1     0 0     0 0      20 0
GWRegltsnEel Team                                            staimo             -          -        40          40         40         120         874                       -     3.4944     3.4944      3.4944    10.4932       00      00       200
LegalSeciab                                                  slatmmo            -                    2           4                      a        1092                       -      2184        4368           -       6552       00      00       20.0
Suppoltan                                                    slamo              -          -        20          20         20          s0         109           -           -      2184        2184        2184       8552       00      00       200
Operating Eipendiure                                           no                                                                                          1.0919     1.0919      1.0919           -           -     3.2758      00      70        50
Study Tous anod Tras...g                                     arnount                                                                                            -       654 9     1.309 8    1.3099        854 9     3.929 5     0 0    S5 0       5 0
Subtotal DCvlopmnnt of Resultory Frmns,orLt                                                                                                                  1.091 9    1.746 9     7.942 3    6.788 a     5.677 1    22.927 0
C Eqttoeom                                                     amount                                                                                        1.937 5    2.604 7          -           -          -    4.2422        0 0    20 0      50 0
D Vehicrs                                                      amoourm                                                                                       5.457 4    7.07 3           -           -          -    12.464 7      00     360      5s0
E. Support to Institutional leup for Regulations
HigherLewlStaff                                                no              -             -                 125        125         250         874                                  -    10.9194    10.9194    21.8387        00      70        50
suppon Stf fo                                                                              -         -          48         48          96         10 9                                 -       5241        524 1     1.048 3     0 0     7 0       5 0
Operoatg Eoenoum                                             amout                                                                                              -                      -     1.091 9     1.0919      2.1839      00      70        50
Subtotal support to InstItutional ltup fo Reguledions                                                                                                             .                      -    12.5354    12.5354    25.0708                                  I
Toul                                                                                                                                                          19.5641    23.8286    11.3792    19.3042    18.2125    92.2856 16



Pakistan                                                                                                                            Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                                          Page 9 of 14
Table 5: FGW Area Watercourse Improvements
Detailed Costs (Rs '000)
Pm4no(t%)
Phty.
Ooa,btsno                       ~~~~~~~~Unit Cost                      Rn. Cost . Ndflto                                   Coat    Fow.    Ome
Unit        1087       iO           1m          2000        2001         Total         Io n?                   13           199m          2eoo        2001         Totl       R_       E.dt.  Ta Rmt
I W_ nnba.ntConfl
A. Wsmoarn R.annan  (F0VA
1 Cvil Woo
MSw'.auot00                                                                                           300         600         500         1.500        370 7                 37.074 7     1 1 224.1    222.448.1    185.373 4   556.120.3      00  o       , 0    4.0
s     Lnb.                                                  .o-   n00                                  300         600         soo         1.500         48 1                  4.8084       14.419 3     28.5386     24.0322      72.0966       0 0      0.0       00 
U sd Ltot                                                  wttwIDO 1                                   300         80000       soo           so00       131             .     13.1078      39.3230       78.4648     65.5391     196817.3       0.0      00        0.0
Ut*n   civ  waso                                                                                 sis8.9   7684 .966 8    529.933 7    274.944 7    824.834 2
3. Aantna~ & a Ir_, r_E.sdba
FlidTeSN    WatS      L&Al    ,e                              santyt            I0         20           20          20            5           as        7402       7401.86     4.803.2      14.8032      14.8032      11.1024     62,9135      o00       7.0       s0
FrldTn iTt Opw.       Expentkm                               t..rny             I0         20           20          20         IS             8s        4979       4.9792      880s1.s     9s91.8         9.9ss       7.4698      42323.4       00       7.0       50
An Tee  'p   E Wg .ft                                        ten.t              4          4            4           4           4            20        622 4      2.489.6     2,499.6      2.489.6       2.489 6     2.44896     2.448.1      00       7 0       5.0
aas        ^ase^  Ope _sg Eqpnlhv                                                                                                                                  14.8704     2            272512        27201.2      21.008    11764s00
3. E*tes                                                       o..ta                                                                                                 3.27.0      3o9848    s                     -            -       7258.5      00     20 0       00.0
4 Vhins                                                        amnota                                                                                               0.914.8     18,04.4                         -            -      29.892       0.0    20.0       50.0
8   _Oe .y C-.esnb
Sete8P  ee                                                   eir                           I0          35           70          50          65         109.2           .       0920        3.9220        7.6440      5.4600      11,091.0      00       0.0      20.0
sa-eapms                                                     suta                           I 10       30           70          so           1ss         541.                    S480       1.9110        3822.0      2.7300       ,9009.0      0.0      0.0      20.0
_         _s_i -     ctsOWN  ip 434o                                                                                                                                                         5733-0        1.M4.80        .0       3727.0t
Tew                                                                                                                                                                      29.060.2    106.77.r    197.941.1    3446s00       304.19504   o.0s24J
-J



Pakistan                                                                                                  Anx 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                               Page 10 of 14
Table 6: Improvement of Drainage Facilities
Debiled Costs (Rs '000)
Parns  (in %)
Qua e                              Uni Cost -                   Ba. Coat Neo N  aion                       Cen.    Fwr.    Gon
Urn     1317    im        13         U         2001     Total                 1317      1       11         200       20l01    Total     Ras    Each.  Tax R_
A. RahstbSn d Carm         n Sm snt                                                                                                00      0.0  34,505.5   34,505.5  34,5055  103,516.4    100       6.0       50
TOtl                                                                                                                                   0.0    0 D                     5  34.55103,S16 4
Table 7: Improvement of Drainage Facilits
Detailed Costs (Rs. '000)
1,; nsI"a (in %)             0
Qua  il                            Unit Cost -                  Ban Cost - N1,otIation                     Cont    For.    Groa
unrI    1917    16        1"         2000      2001     Total    N1on          3m7    1m        1m         2000      2001      Total    Rats    Exch.  Tax Raft
1. hwm0s Cob
A. SCARP 
Nu.T,bx     lnotabona(2amec)                     w-                    -        10         25                 35        1638        .        - - 1.6379    4,0947          -    5.732.5    10.0    100         50
B. Adbanl  &Oprall  ExpwniEa                      wnol -t                                                                                              81.9     196.5        -      2784       00      7.0       50
Total                                                                                                                                        -         1.719 8    4.2912        -   8.011 0



Pakistan                                                                                                                 Annex 7
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                              Page 11 of 14
Table 8: Canal Improvements
Detailed Costs (Rs 000)
Parmefters (in %)
Phy.
Quantities                             Unit Cost -                         Base Cost - Negotiahon                            Cont.   For.    Gross
Unit         19S7     1116        1999       2000      2001        Total    Negotiation    1997        1999        199         2000         2001        Total      Raet    Exch.  Tax Rate
1. Investment Costs
A. SCARP N
CMidvoila                                         convbtmn %s                                30         40         30         IW0                        -           -    774374    103.2498    774374        258.1246      100     100       IS0
B. Design & Supwvision Consulants
Ten Leadw                                            taffnro            6         12         12         12         12          54        1092       6552       1.3104      1.3104       1.3104     1.3104       SM968       00       00       200
D-gn Enner                                           staffmo             -         6          3          -          -           9          7 4           -      524 2       262 1                        -        786 2     0 0      0 0      20 0
ReawnlEnpr                                           stmo                -                   12         12         12          36         874            -                 10483       1.0483     1.0483       3.1450      00       00       200
Cairct Enpur                                         staitIo                       3           -                    -           3         76 4                  229 3                                             229 3      0 0     0 0      20 0
Subtotal Design & Sups'Asion Consuttanta                                                                                                               655 2     2.063 9     2.620 8      2.358 7    2.358 7     10.057 3
C. Eqiipnunt                                           anmunt                                                                                        1,746.6     1.255.4                                   .      3.002 0      0 0    20.0      so 0
D Veidces                                              arount                                                                                        8.731 8    10,674.6                                         19.406 5      00     30 0      50.0
E. Adionsbbn A Operabing Enpitures                     amount                                                                                                         .       .872.0      5.1627     3.872.0     12,9067       00      70        S0
Total                                                                                                                                                  11133.?    13.9939    83.9302     110.7712    83658 1    303.4971
I-



Pakistan
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                                   Pag  12 0 14
Table 9: SGW Area Watercourse Rennovations
Detaded Costs (Rs 'OW)                                                                                                          (in %)
0ottia,                                 Lit Cost.                           See cost - NC  ag_ms                              CenL    Fur.    8a
uink   19     7      166        1m 666      2666       2661       Total   n.      .k       19 7      1666            e          na          mel    -lw             PM    E .ch   Tax R
L kwaSegk C
A. Wawmaqau beAnkafio (mm5
1. co wd
Mugm                                                     "WCOwwx,                      so        200         200         soo        S          6770                32640.2    135,3968      135.3966    33.8492    33a,4915        0.0    100        40
SksdLdb                                                                                so 50     200         200         so         S0          84t                 4242.4      16.9967      16.9667      4.242.4     42.4242      00       00       00
t._Uwedt.aw                                               wste    i                    s0         200        200         50         500        175.4                6,76.8      35.075 0     35.075 0     6.764.8    67.76         0.0      00        0.0
a,o       , Clvi  -a.6                                                                                                                                               46.6604    187 441 5    17 441.S    46,880.4    466.60 7
L Ad aA      l    A        E* piviibmes
FPWTOM    w    Good       I c =tINW                                          -          2           5          5          3          15        7402                 1,460.3      3.7006       3.700.5     22zo5       11.1024      0.0      7.0      5.0
F- Teuu  On          Egi_muM                                 tm              -          2           s          5          3          Is        497            - 9      6.s 6     2496         2,469.6     1493.6       7.466.6     0.0      7.0      5.0
5va _       _    _ A m t &05 O        r _ Expm,wf                                                                                                               -     2.476.2      6160.4       6;110.4     3.7142      18.5712
3. E*Ae                                                         _                                                                                           917.0     1.4737             *            -          *       2360.7      0.0    200        50.0
4. VddcMs                                                     mrm                                                                                         2183.0      4.1149             -            -                  6297.6      00      300       50.0
9. iupwvmuta Cuemihota An
SminrEngwa s                                                                 -          5          20         20          6          51        1092                   546.0      2.184.0      2.14.0       655.2       5.5662      0.0      0.0     20.0
S.Ew     _v                                                 d                -          5          20         20          6           1         5.4 s                 273 0      1.062.0      1.092.0      327.6       2.74.6      0 0      0.0     20.0
S4u6w IkpUOW7 C-fl                                                                                                                                                      616.0      3276.0       3.227.0      96          6m353.8
Tow                                                                                                                                                            3.099    55,744.1    195.907-9  -1-95 90.79   sIMY57.4    5042172
I-A
0)



Pakistan                                                                                                Annen
Punjab Privat Sector Groundwater Development Proct                                                                               Pape 13 of 14
Table 10: MonitorIng and Evaluation
DeWd Cost (Rs. 000)                                                                              Piamdas on %l
0ahia.                 USM Cow -                                           C- N         o                           CoL    Fw        Gros
Unlt    _6        im         l1         no         2am1       TOd4         I_bn             17           I- 2M900               Z01        Tod4      RiO    EzCL   Tax Ras
L br*obm* Cssi
A. SWB
Tom Ldv                             lo           *         9          12         12        12          45        654.7       -    5.a92.1    7.8561      7.56 1      7.8561    29.480.5     0.0    80 0      20 0
A        gCoTON                   s*no           -         5           5                     -         10         65.5       -      327.6       3278           -          -       6552      0.0     0.0      20.0
O uigdmAuanoa,           -          mB                     5           5                     -         10        65.5               327.6       327.6                     -      655.2      0 0     0.0      20 0
So  aio0apo lobia                                -         9          12         12        12          45         764               668.0      9173        9173       917.3    3,439.8      00      0.0      20.0
Senior Il    nEng m aEno                         -         9          12         12         7          40         76.4              686.0      917.3       917.3      535.1     3,057.6     0.0     0.0      20.0
.JvaEnr                              8o -                  1         108        106        63         380        491         -    3.0.3    5,307.1    5.3071        30958    17690.4       0.0     0.0      20.0
WA.kUtaffluor                                    -        81         108        106        63         360        49.1        -    3960.3    5.307.1      5.3071      3.095.8    17,690.4    0.0     0.0      20.0
F         l are,                                 - ,, gi  I I4        4           4         3          15        76.4        -      305.8      3058        305.8      2293      1.1466      0.0     0.0      20.0
FiOd E      roumfra               alMu           -        40         50          50        20         180        21 8        -      873.6    1.092 0     1.092.0      436.6    3,494.4      0 0     0.0      20.0
C-npisA1Iw                            r          -        10           5          5        10          30         87.4       -      6736        4368       4366       873.6    2,620.8      0.0     0.0      20.0
SLW    S                           no            -        24         24          24        24          96         10.9              262.1      282.1       262.1      262.1     1.0483      0.0     0.0      20.0
_mwg                                                                                                                                18.198.9   2306       22.4016    17,301 9    8099
S. OF     -  E)Vwiihx               muuoui                                                                                           1,091.9    1.637 9    1.637.9     1,091.9    5,459.7     0.0     7.0       5 0
TOW                                                                                                                                   19290.9   24894.7    24.039.5    18.3939    86,418.9



Pakistan                                                                                                        Annex 7
Punajb Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                     Page 14 of 14
Table 11: Project Management Unit
Detailed Costs (Rs. '000)                                                                              Parameters (in %)
Phy.
Quantities                         Unit Cost -                         Base Cost - Negotiation                      Cont.   For.    Gross
Unit     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      Total   Negotiation    1997        1998        1999       2000      2001       Total      Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
I. Inveatment Costs
A. PMU
1. Staff Salaries /a
Prolet Director                                 staffyr        1         1        1         1        1          5        786 2      786 2       786.2       786.2     786 2      786 2     3,931.0     0.0      7.0      5 0
Director/b                                      staffyr        3        3         3         3        3         15        786.2     2,3586     2,358.6     2,3586    2.3586    2,3586    11,792.9       0.0      7.0       50
TechnicalStaff                                 staffyr         5         5        5         5        5         25        5241      2,820.8    2,620.6     2,6206    2.6206    2,6206    13,103.2       00       70       50
Support Staff                                  staffyr         5        5         5         5        5         25        196.5      982.7       982 7       982 7     982 7      982.7     4,913 7     0 0      7.0      5 0
Subtotal Staff Salaries                                                                                                              6,748.2    6,748 2     6,748 2    6,748 2    6,748.2    33,7408
2. Equipment                                     amount                                                                              1,091 7     1.435 5          -                    -    2,527.2      0 0    20.0       50.0
3 Vehicles                                       amount                                                                              4,3659     4,365 9                     -          -    8,731 8      0.0    30.0      50 0
4. Operabng Expenditure                          amount                                                                              1,637 9     1,637.9    1,637 9    1,637 9    1,637 9    8,189 5     0.0      7.0       5 0
Subtotal PMU                                                                                                                          13,843.6   14,187.5     8,386 1    8.386 1    8,386 1    53,189.3
B. Project Supervision
Project Launch and Prourement Workshop           amount                                                                               327 4       327 4                     .          -      654.9      0 0     50 0     20 0
Supervision Support to GOP                       staffmo         3         3        3         3        3         15        1092        3275       3275        3275      3275       327.5     1,6377      00      20.0     20.0
Mid-term Review                                  amount                                                                                    -          -     1,964.0         -          -     1,964 0     0.0    80.0       20.0
Subtotal Project Supervision                                                                                                             855 0      855.0    2,291.6      327 5      327.5    4,258.6
Total                                                                                                                                    14,498.6   14,842.5    10.6776    8.7136    8,713.6   57,445.9
\a Indudes salaries as welt as all allowances and expenses.
\b For Administrabon and 8nance, monitoring and technical manters                                                                                                                                                                          N)
N)
Table 12: Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Costs (Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Quantities                          Unit Cost -                        Base Cost - Negotiation                      Cont.   For.    Gross
Unit     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      Total    Negotiation    1997       1998        1999       2000       2001      Total      Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
t. Investment Costs
A. Consuldng Services                        amount                                                                                7,528 8     7,528 8    7.528 8    7.528 8    7,528 8    37,644 0     0.0    80 0      20 0
B Adim Oper Expenditures                     Amount                                                                                7,589 0     7.589 0    7.589 0    7,589 0    7,589.0   37,944 8     0 0      7 0       5 0
C Training                                   amount                                                                                  644.2      644.2       644 2     644 2      644.2     3,220.9      00    20 0        50
Total                                                                                                                                 15,761 9    15.7619    15,761 9   15,761.9   15,761.9   78,809.6



Annex 8
Page I of 2
-123-
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal
Year and                                 Cumulative                 Percent of
Semester            Disbursements        Disbursements              Total Credit
FY97   I                  1.5                 1.5                         3.0
11                 1.5                 3.0                         5.0
FY98  1                   3.5                 6.5                        12.0
11                 3.5                10.0                        18.0
FY99  1                   6.5                16.5                        29.0
ll                 6.5                23.0                        41.0
FY00   1                  9.0                32.0                        57.0
ll                 9.0                41.0                        73.0
FY01   1                  8.0                49.0                        88.0
If                 7.0                56.0                       100.0



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
-124-
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Percentage of Expenditures
Categorv                                     Amount            to be Financed
1.    Watercourse materials                   15.0            56% of expenditures on material
2.    Civil Works
(a) Canal Structures
Rehabilitation            2.7            80 percent of expenditures
(b) Drainage Works                      0.1            80 percent of expenditures
(c) Canal Improvements                  7.0            76 percent of expenditures
Sub-total                                     24.8
3.     Equipment (including office             1.5            100% of foreign expenditures,
furniture)                                      100% of local expenditures (ex-
and vehicles                                    factory costs) and 50 percent of
local expenditures for items
procured locally.
4.    Consulting Services                     10.0            100 percent of expenditures
5.    Incremental administrative and Operating
Expenditures                            9.0            90 percent of expenditures
6.     Training                                6.8            100 percent of expenditures
Sub-total                                     27.3
5.    Unallocated                              3.9
Total                                  56.0



-125-                                      Annex 9
Page I of 14
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Project Implementation Plan
A. The Project
The overall project objectives are to increase the scope and productivity of Punjab's
irrigation and drainage subsector and increase farmers' incomes. Its specific objectives are to:
(a)    redefine government's role in groundwater development and provide assistance to
facilitate change;
(b)    develop a monitoring program and regulatory framework to ensure sustainable use of the
groundwater resources;
(c)    develop sustainable farmers' organizations (FOs) which can efficiently operate and
maintain groundwater irrigation, improve surface irrigation and establish a base for
participation in the management of the canal systems;
(d)    increase beneficiaries' incomes and alleviate poverty;
(e)    rationalize public expenditure on O&M of the irrigation and drainage systems as well as
increase the recovery of public expenditures on irrigation infrastructure; and
(f)    avoid environmental hazard of saline water intrusion into fresh groundwater aquifers.
2.     The major project components are:
(a)    privatization of SCARP tubewells;
(b)    development of a groundwater monitoring and regulatory framework;
(c)    improvement of irrigation conveyance facilities. Improvement of watercourses and canal
structures in fresh groundwater areas;
(d)    prevention of saline groundwater intrusion in fresh aquifers.  Improvement of
watercourses and canals and construction/rehabilitation of drainage facilities in the saline
areas;
(e)    monitoring and evaluation of the project impact; and
(f)    project management, and technical assistance and training.



-126-                                     Annex 9
Page 2 of 14
C. Implementation Arrangements
3.     General.     The project would be implemented by a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the
Punjab Planning and Development (P&D) Department, Punjab Irrigation (PID), Agriculture (PAD), and
FOs in collaboration with WAPDA. The existing Provincial Policy Committee (PPC) and the Project
Coordination Committees (PCC) established under the ongoing Second SCARP Transition Project would
provide policy guidance, assist with inter-Departmental coordination, and hold periodic reviews of progress
at the provincial and field levels, respectively. The proposed organization is shown in Charts I and 2,
and the roles of implementing agencies are described below.
4.     The Project management Unit (PMU).       The PMU would have minimal staff only for the
duration of the project and it would be supported mainly by the consultants. PMU would be composed
of a full time Project Director (PD), two ex-officio Members (one each from PID and the Directorate
General of Water Management (DGWM), and three Directors as well as support staff. The Directors
would be recruited from the open market or supplied by a management consulting firms on fixed-term
contracts for the duration of the project. The PD would be a senior official of the P&D Board of the level
of Member of the Board. The PMU would be supported by a multi-disciplinary team of consultants who
would provide project implementation assistance (PIA) in project management, community mobilization,
engineering design and construction supervision, and development of groundwater regulatory framework
(terms of reference are in Annex 3). The PMU would also employ an independent organization or
consulting firm to carry out project impact evaluation studies (PIES) (TOR are in Annex 6).
5.    The PD PMN  would be responsible for overseeing overall project implementation. The Director
[MIS, Administration, Budget and Accounts (MABA)I would be an experienced Chartered Accountant
(or equivalent) with experience in maintaining an MIS, administration, preparation of budgets and
maintenance of accounts. With the assistance of the MIS, as well as budget and accounts specialist
supplied by the PIA consultants, the Director (MABA) would establish an MIS for the project and submit
periodic progress reports on all project components to PMU, and IDA, be responsible for administrative
matters relating to the PMU, and prepare annual budgets and requests for appropriation of funds in the
Annual Development Programs.  The Director [Community Development (CD)] would be a
sociologist/anthropologist with experience in community mobilization and participatory irrigation
management, preferably in groundwater management. With the assistance of the CDSG teamn supplied
by the PIA consultants, the Director (CD) would, inter alia, be responsible for managing and supervising
the operations of the project's four field offices, the CDSG team of PIA consultants, and the NGOs
involved in community mobilization, maintaining consistency of community mobilization methodology
and approach followed by the PIA consultants, OFWM  field teams and NGOs.  The Director
[Regulation] would be a groundwater specialist with experience in legal aspects of groundwater
management and regulation, as well as monitoring and evaluation of groundwater projects. The main
responsibilities of this position would include managing and supervising the PIE consultants, and the PIA
consultants team responsible for developing groundwater regulatory framework.
6.    The PID through the Member (Irrigation) of PMU, would be responsible for STWs closures
and retrieval of machinery from the boreholes and their capping (this would be done through open
auctions), canal rehabilitation/lining, drainage rehabilitation, performance contracts for O&M, and re-
deployment of redundant staff. For this purpose, PID would put all the SCARPs included in the project,
and one canal construction division under the jurisdiction of the Member (Irrigation). The PAD,
through the Directorate General of Water Management, would be responsible for improving
watercourses, and establishing FOs and CTWs in designated areas. The DG Water Management would
designate a Project Manager, and assign four Area and twenty five Field teams to carry out these



-127-                                      Annex 9
Page 3 of 14
activities. The Member (Water Management) would, inter alia. be responsible for: (i) ensuring close
coordination between the PMU and the Directorate General of Water Management; (ii) drafting necessary
bye laws for WUAs and FOs to allow ownership and/or leasing of CTWs/land; and (iii) preparing
innovative designs for layout of CTWs so that they could be installed on the public land along the
watercourses.
7.     NGO's Role.   Currently there are no NGOs in Punjab with experience in establishing FOs and
capable of assuming full responsibility for managing an extensive social mobilization program needed for
the project. However, some local service NGOs have working relationships with local community based
organizations CBOs and/or local activists who could help mobilize farmer participation in the project.
Wherever feasible, the PMU will seek cooperation of local service NGOs and CBOs either directly or
through the PIA consultants to assist with community mobilization. In selecting NGOs/CBOs, it would
be ensured that they: (a) are legally registered and maintain accounts that are audited annually; (b) are
involved in the rural development as their main objective and they are not affiliated with any political
organization; (c) have adequate number of field staff conversant with local languages and customs, and
have good knowledge and understanding of the socio-economic conditions in the area; and (d) are
supportive of the project objectives and can work in harmony with the rest of the project team.
8.     FO's Role.    FO's would play a critical role in project implementation. They would be eligible
for receiving project assistance for establishing CTWs if they have membership of at least one-third of
the farmers within the command of an STW. FOs wishing to establish CTWs would be required to
register themselves as a water users association or its sub-group (e.g. a tubewell committee) under the
Punjab Water Users Associations Ordinance of 1981. The FOs at the CTW level would, inter alia, have
the following responsibilities: (a) interacting with the field tearns of PMU and/or OFWM staff to prepare
work plans for transfer of STWs; (b) determining the best option for replacing STW pumpage, in terms
of type, size and location of CTWs; (c) installing, operating and maintaining CTW, and distributing water
to its members according to agreed shares and schedules; (d) maintaining bank accounts and collecting
members' share of capital, operation and maintenance and replacement costs; (e) maintaining capital and
O&M accounts and log books; (f) improving water management in the watercourse command; and (f)
participating in watercourse and canal improvement programs.
9.            Watercourses would be improved in areas where the majority of farrmers on a watercourse
agree to cooperate and manage water deliveries at the chak level. In fresh groundwater areas these FOs
would qualify for project assistance for watercourse improvements after they have effectively operated and
maintained their CTWs for a period of one year. During this period they would: (i) elect their executive
committee, including a Chairman, a General Secretary, and a Treasurer; (ii) improve distribution of canal
as well as CTW water, and the community and farn channels; (iii) open a bank account, generate funds
for up-front contribution for W/C improvement, from sales of CTW water and contributions from FO
members; (iv) collect farmers' shares for repayment of material costs to the government; and (v)
participate in improving water distribution at the distributary level, and collecting contributions for the
capital cost of improving distributaries.
10.    WAPDA's Role.        WAPDA would provide electric connections to FOs who are close to
electric supply and decide to install electric CTWs. Where STWs are converted to CTWs as such under
the transfer mode, WAPDA will transfer the title of electrical connection to FOs against normally needed
security deposits. WAPDA would also assist FOs in removing electrical equipment and wiring no longer
needed.



Annex 9
-128-                                 Page 4 of 14
Project Coordination Committee
11.                 At the project level, an existing Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be
responsible for ensuring coordination among various agencies and facilitating project implementation. The
PCC would be chaired by PD of PMU and have the following members: (i) from PID: SE's of concerned
SCARP, canal and drainage Circles; (ii) from the PAD: the Area Coordinator of OFWM; and the Deputy
Director Agriculture; (iii) a representative of District Administration; and (iv) representatives of selected
FOs. The PCC would meet once every month. The PMU would also act as its secretariat.
Provincial Policy Committee
12.                 The existing Provincial Policy Committee (PPC) would provide policy guidance
and steer project implementation by providing inter-agency coordination at the highest level. The PPC
would be chaired by the Chairman P&D Board and the Secretaries of Irrigation, Agriculture, and Finance
would be its members. The PD of PMU would act as its secretary. The PPC would meet at least every
six months, or whenever issues requiring resolution are submitted for its consideration. The main
functionls of the PPC would be to: (i) resolve issues not settled by the PCC; (ii) ensure provision of
adequate budgetary allocations for project implementation as well as operation and maintenance (O&M);
(iii) ensure adequacy and continuity of PMU staff; (iv) ensure that the project complies with legal
covenanits; and (v) recruit and supervise consultants to carry out full supervision of the project twice a
year, independently of the PMU.
C. Implementation Schedule
13.          A summary of implementation schedule for the project is given in Table 1. Details by
project components is given in their respective sections and annexes. A summary description is give
below.
14.    Documents Processing and Approvals.      The project was jointly appraised by IDA and
FAO/CP in June/July, 1995. The Yellow cover was finalized in December, 1995. The credit negotiations
with would be held in April, 1996 and the project is expected to be approved by Board in May, 1996.
On the Government side the preparation of PC-I started in November, 1996 and approved by the Punjab,
Irrigation, Agriculture departments in February, 1996. The P&D would process the PC-I and submit for
the approval of the Provincial Development Working Party (PDWP) in April, 1996. The PDWP approval
would be obtain in May, 1996. The ECNEC would give full approval of PC- I by September 30, 1996.
15.    Recruitment of Consulting Services. The short-list of consulting firms for the project
implementation have been completed by the PMU and cleared by IDA. The Letter of Invitation for
technical and financial proposals have been launched on March 3, 1996. The proposals would be
submitted by the short-listed firms by March 18, 1996. The evaluation of the technical and financial
proposals would be completed by the May 31, 1996. The consultants selections would be completed and
a consultancy contact would be signed by June 30, 1996. The consultants would mobilize in July, 1996
and establishment of the field offices would be completed by October 30, 1996.
16.          For recruitment of M&E consultants, in December, 1995 the Government have invited
expression of interest from the consulting firms for preparation of a long-list. The short-list would be
completed by April 15, 1996. Technical and financial proposals from the short-listed firms would be
invited by June 30, 1996 after IDA clearance of the invitation package. The consultants selection would



Annex 9
-129-                                 Page 5 of 14
be completed November 30, 1996 and the consultants would mobilize and establish the field offices by
December 31, 1996.
17.    Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment.   Contrary  to  previous project in  Pakistan,
procurement of all vehicles and equipment needed for the project would be procured by one agency, PMU
through a single bid package. The package would be launched well in advance so the vehicles and
equipment would be available at the time of mobilization of staff and the consultants. The procurement
package have been prepared with several sub-packages consisting of homogeneous items. The package
would be launched by March 31, 1996 and the supply contracts would be signed by June 31, 1996. The
procuremenit would be completed by September 30, 1996.
18.    Disinvestment of SCARP Tubewells. All field offices would begin to function fully by
December, 1996/January 1997. All the social mobilization staff both field and headquarter would start
functioning by January 31, 1997 except the social organizers who will be recruited as required by the
speed of implementation. In the first fiscal year only 20 SOs would be in place the number would
increase to 60 or more (as needed) in the following years. By June, 1997 about 800 FOs would be
formed for installation of CTWs and about 200 STWs would be replaced with 300 CTWs. In project
years (PY) two to four about 1,590 CTWs would be installed annually and target of 6,360 would be
completed in project year 5.
19.    Watercourse (W/C) Improvements.  In fresh groundwater area the about 400 watercourse level
FOs would be formed by June 30, 1997. Watercourse improvements in fresh area would start from the
second year of the project on watercourse where CTWs have worked successfully for one year. It is
estimated that about 100 W/Cs would be improved in PY2. The number would increase to 300 in PY3,
600 in PY4 and 500 in the last year. In the saline areas the OFWM staff will concentrate on developing
W/C level FOs in the first project year. In the PY2 about 50 watercourse would be improved, about 200
in PY3 and PY4, and about 50 in PY5.
20.    Canal Improvements. Preparation of detailed canal designs would start in January, 1996 and
would be completed by November 30, 1997. The tender documents would be finalized by December 31,
1997. The bids would be invited through ICB in January, 1998 and the work would start in July, 1998.
About 30 percent of the works would be completed in PY3 followed by 40 and 30 percent in PY4 and
PY S.
21.    Drainage Works.    About 10 saline tubewells would be rehabilitated in the saline unit of
SCARP-II in PY3 and remaining 15 in PY4.
D. Key Performance Indicators
22.           The performance indicators which would be monitored during the project implementation
to evaluate the performance of the project are classified in four groups, the input indicators, the output
indicators, process indicators and the impact indicators. These would be monitored by the PMU through
field visits and observations, third party supervision missions, and the monitoring and evaluation studies.
The IDA missions would also monitor these indicator during field visits project supervision missions. The
summary of key indicators are provided in Table 2.



Annex 9
-130-                                  Page 6 of 14
E. Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input and Key Activities.
23.           IDA would supervise the project twice a year on average. If required supervision would
occur more frequently during the first two years to help steer it through the start-up stage. The project
launchi and procurement workshops would also be organized during this period. The IDA supervision
would comprise of one main supervision mission annually in the second semester of the fiscal year,
supplemented by a shorter mission in the first semester, and correspondence and clearances as needed.
Intensity of supervision missions would be reduced after the project is successfully past this start-up stage,
and a regime of enihanced Government has been established. Intensive IDA supervision during the start-up
stage is justified given the nature of the project, which unlike conventional irrigation projects, is
"software" intensive rather than "hardware" intensive. Community mobilization is a crucial element of
the project. This is a relatively new area in irrigation projects in Pakistan and requires greater supervision
inputs by IDA. Table 3 contains IDA's proposed supervision plan, and details of staff inputs and skill
mix requirements for supervision missions. IDA supervision would be facilitated by the proposed
arrangemenits for enhanced Government supervision.
Borrowers Contribution to Supervision
24.           The PMU would have a lead role in supervision the project implementation, and
responsible for ensuring that all project components are appropriately monitored, based on the key
indicators and regularly measured to give an idea of the project's impact and success in meeting its
objectives. The PMU would have primary responsibility for re-directing and restructuring of the project,
chaniginig the levels and types of inputs, and processes to ensure that the project objectives are met and
implemenitationi proceeds smoothly and according to the schedule. The PMU would make use of the
moniitoring and evaluation studies, Management Information Systems and budgeting and accounting
meclianiisins and third party supervision for rigorous superior of the project.
25.    Third Party Supervision.    In line with the decision taken during the 1995 Country Portfolio
Perfornmance Review (CPPR), the project provides resources to support enhanced project supervision by
GOPunjab. The P&D Board would hire, independently of the PMU, services of specialists in various
fields to carry out detailed supervision of the project on behalf of GOPunjab from time to time (on
average two times a year) and submit detailed supervision reports. TOR of these specialists as well as
their reports would be shared with IDA.
26.    Annual Work Plans and Progress Reporting.        The MIS of the PMU would be designed
to meet the monitoring and reporting requirements of all project components. The PIA consultants would
identify the key progress indicators and design an appropriate MIS system, including an "issues and
actions oriented" progress reporting format acceptable to the PMU and IDA. The PMU, with inputs from
PID and PAD, would also prepare detailed annual plans/work programs and budgets, as well as requests
for allocation of funds in the federal/provincial annual development programs. The annual plans would
duly take into account feedback from project impact evaluation studies. The PID and PAD would submit
monthly progress reports to the PMU. The PMU in turn would integrate them and submit periodic
progress reports covering all project components to the P&D Board, PID, PAD and IDA. The PMU
would also periodically prepare working papers for the PCC and PPC meetings. Assurances would be
obtained that by March 31 each year, the PMU would submit to IDA for its review, a draft Annual Plan,
including work program and the proposed budgetary allocation for the following fiscal year, cleared by
the PPC.



Annex 9
-131-                                 Page 7 of 14
27.    Project Launch Workshop. To facilitate project start-up. the PMU in collaboration with PID
and PAD, would hold a project launch workshop soon after Credit signing (in early FY97). The
workshop would, inter alia, familiarize project staff (as well as officials of concerned implementing and
cooperating agencies) with the project objectives, components, implementation schedule and institutional
arrangements, procurement and disbursement procedures, and monitoring and evaluation aspects of the
project.
28.    Procurement Workshops.    Several procurement workshops would be conducted to provide
assistance in the procurement planning, the use of Banks Standard Bidding document, preparation of bid
documents, evaluation of bids and award of contracts. These workshops would be organized to train local
staff in procurement with the aim to enhance general capability in this area and, in addition to the project
staff will be open to staff of other agencies involved in procurement under large projects.
29.    Mid-Term Review.   To evaluate the project's progress, and prospects of meeting its objectives,
a detailed mid-term review (MTR) would be carried out jointly by GOPunjab, GOP and IDA during the
third year of implementation, not latter than March 31, 1999.  The MTR would evaluate the overall
progress and assess need for adjustments in the project scope and design, implementation approach and
methodology, and policy aspects, to ensure timely completion and achievement of project objectives. The
PMU would submit draft TOR for the MTR for the P&D Board's and IDA's review by September 30,
1998, and an MTR Preparation Report compiled with the assistance of the PIA and PIE consultants, or
other specialists by January 31, 1999.



PAKISTAN                                                                                                  Annex 9
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                Page 8 of 14
Table 1: Implementation Schedule
1995                                                                          1996
Task Name                                                          Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr  May  Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr
Bank Project Processing
Appraisal
Issung of Draft Yellow Cover
Yellow Cover Review
*1120
Negotiations                                                                                                                    _
Board
Loan Effectiveness
GOPunjab Startup Activities
Preparation of PC-1
Approval of PC-1 by lrIgaton. Agriculture Departments                                                              _
Approval by PDWP                                                                                                                   ;
Approval by CDWP
Approval by ECNEC
General Procurement Notice                                                                                 _
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment
Preparation of Tender Documents
Invitation to Bidders                                                                                               _
Preparation of Offers
Evaluation & Selecton of Suppliers                                                                                                          m
Contract Signing                                                                                                                                       115
Delivery
Evaluation & Reception of Equipmnent
C:\PGD\COSTS\PGDP1 MPP



PAKISTAN                                                                                             Annex 9
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                          Page 9 of 14
Table 1: Implementation Schedule
1995                                   1                                   1996
Task Nane                                                       Jun   Jul   Aug | Sep | Octl Nov   Dec  Jan   Feb   Mar  Apr  May  Jun   Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb  Mar  Apr
Project Launch                                                                                                                            ___
Establishment of PMU                                           ___
Designation ofActing PD & Members Irrigation & Water Managem  * 7
Full Staffing of PMU                                                                                                            *  15
PC41 Approval to fund project dart-up expenditure
Preparation of PC-II
Approval by Irrigation, Agriculture & P&D Departments
Approval by PDWP
Recruibnent of Project implementation Consultants
Inviation of Expression of Interest for Long List
Finalization of Shortlist
IDA s Comments on Short Listed Firms                                                                                                                                                                              I-a
Invitation of Proposals from Short Listed Firms                                                                  -
Evaluation of Technical Proposals
Consultant Selection
Consultants Contract                                                                                                          -       m
Mobilization & Establishment of Field Offices                                                                                         -
Recruibmnt of M& E Consultants
Inviation of Express of Interest for Long List
Finalization of Shortlist
IDAs Comments on Short Listed Firms
Invitation of Proposals from Short Listed Firms
Evaluation of Technical Proposals
Consultant Selection
Mobilization & Establishment of Field Offices                                                                                                       _
Project Launch Workshop                                                                                                                                         _
Procurement Workshop                                                                                                                                                         _
Setting Up of Special Account                                                 _
C:APGD\COSTS\PGDP1 .MPP



PAKISTAN                                                                                                    Annex 9
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project                                                                                Page 10 of 14
Table 1: Implementation Schedule
1997                            1996                             1999                            2000                             2001
Task Name                                             03   104  101  102              0 3     04   1   i     02       03      04       01      02      03  104         01     02       03   104         01      0 2     03
RecruitmenI of Socia Organizers
Training of Social Organizems
A. Tubewoll Prlvatlzartion                                        1%                             20%                              30%                             30%                              15%
B. Development of GW RegulatoryFreok
Development of framework                                   2__                              40                               0
implementation                                                                                                                                                W/%                             50%
C. Improvement of rimgatlon FacdiltIe
0. Provenlion of Satins GroundwatrIatso
impro vemeont of Drainage in Saline Arma                                                    0%                              30%                              70%
Canal Lining In Saline Alleg
Design and Prwaration of Bid Documewnts
Construction                                                                               0%                          30%                             40%                              30%
Watercourse improvemewnts                                   0%/                             10%                             20%                              30%                             40%
E. Monitoring and Evaluation                                     10%                             10%                              20%                             30%                             30%
F. project Managemfent                                           20%                             20%                              25%                             20%                              19%
C\PD\CSTSPGDP2.MPP



Annex 9
-135-                                Page I I of 14
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 2: Proposed Key Performance Indicators
Input Indicators
1.    Staffing of the project implementation units, Headquarters and Field staff, number of SOs in the
field.
2.     Number of farmers approached for installation of CTWs and watercourse improvements.
3.    CTWs incentive disbursement targets and achievements.
4.     Budget required, allocated and released by GOPunjab.
5.     Project expenditures planned and actually achieved.
6.     Key findings and feed back from M&E studies and steps taken to address issues raised.
Output Indicators
1.    Number of FOs formed, number of meetings held, collection of O&M and capital investment
funds, and opening of Bank accounts.
2.     Number of CTWs installed, coverage of STW share holders (%), CCA served (%), per cent of
share holders by size of holding, location. (head, middle, tail); average cost of PTWs and CTWs;
average depth of bore holes, % CTWs located on communal or Government land.
3.    Number of watercourse level FOS formed, watercourses improved, contribution by FOs for
improvements of watercourses.
4.     Cost recovery due and achieved (arrears and current).
5.    Electric power capacity released due to closure of STWs.
6.     Number of STWs for which notifications for withdrawal of double abiana issue.
7.    Reduction in O&M expenditure of PID.
Process Indicators
2.     Staff deployed on various activities
2.     Surveys required and completed
3.    Studies undertaken and completed
4.     Training planned and implemented (type and coverage)
5.     Number of after-care visits undertaken and messages delivered
6.     Designs of civil works, and preparation of bidding documents.
Impact Indicators
I.    Average water table depth and trend in project area as compared to project/base line situation;
percent of area waterlogged, 0-5', 5-10', 10-15, and > 15.'
2.     Average utilization rates of CTWs.
3.     Shallow and deep water quality (Ec, RSC, SAR and overall assessment: usable, marginal,
hazardous.
4.     Soil quality as compared to baseline.
5.    Water savings due to watercourse and canal improvement, conveyance efficiencies achieved as
compared to baseline (pre-improvement).



Annex 9
-136-                                Page 12 of 14
6.     Reduction in GOPunjab's O&M budget and expenditure due to closure of STWs.
7.     Equity of water distribution among FO members, and sale of CTW water to non-members; status
of O&M of CTWs; and reserves generated through sale of CTWs water for O&M and
replacement of CTWs; and average life of CTWs.
8.     Percent of FOs with outstanding performance; percent of FOs functioning smoothly without
disputes and with chances of long term sustainability, percent of FOs having disputes; percent
of non functioning FOs.
9.     Financial sustainability of FOs, balance in their Bank account, amount received from water sales
annually, contributions towards O&M of the tubewells and the surface system.
10.    FOs participating improvements of surface system such as canal lining etc.
11.    Average cropping intensities, cropping patterns and yields of main crops in project area for FO
members and non-members as compared to baseline/controls.
12.   Changes in farm incomes (gross and net) as compared to baseline and controls.
13.    Estimated economic rate of return of the project.



-137-                                   Annex 9
Page 13 of 14
PAKISTAN
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 3:IDA Supervision Plan and Inputs
Approximate                                                                Staff
Dates                                                                   Input
FY Semester   Activity            Expected Skill Requirements             (Weeks)
FY97: I        Supervision 1      Institutional/Economics (3)              1 1
Launch Workshop    Engineering (3)
Start-up           Farmer Organization/
Sociology/Anthropology (3)
Procurement (1)
Disbursement (1)
FY97:II        Supervision 2      Institutional (2)                        9
(Main)            Engineering (2)
Agricultural (2)
Farmer Organization/Anthropology (2)
Procurement and Disbursement (1)
Total FY97                                                                20
FY98: I        Supervision 3      Engineering and Institutional (2)        6
(Light)            Farmer Organization (2)
Agricultural (1)
Procurement (1)
FY98:11        Supervision 4      Institutional and Engineering (3)       10
(Main)            Farmer Organization (2)
Agricultural (1)
Groundwater Regulations (1)
Procurement and Disbursements (1)
Monitoring and Evaluation (2)
Total FY98                                                                16



-138-                                   Annex 9
Page 14 of 14
Approximate                                                               Staff
Dates                                                                    Input
IDA Semester  Activity            Expected Skill Requirements             (Weeks)
FY99: I        Supervision 5      Institutional and Engineering (2)        6
(Light)           Farmer Organization (1)
Groundwater Regulations (1)
Agricultural (1)
Economics (1)
FY99:II        Supervision 6      Institutional (2)                        15
Main and Mid-      Economics (2)
Term Review        Engineering (4)
Farmer Organization/
Sociology/Anthropology (3)
Groundwater (1)
Monitoring and Evaluation (1)
Procurement (1)
Disbursement (1)
Total FY99                                                                21
FY2000: I      Supervision 7      Institutional and Engineering (3)        6
(Light)           Groundwater Regulations (1)
Farmer Organization (1)
Economics (1)
FY2000:11      Supervision 8      Institutional and Engineering (3)        9
(Main)            Farmer Organization (2)
Agricultural (1)
Groundwater Regulations (1)
l_________________ Monitoring and Evaluation (2)
Total FY2000                                                              15
FY2001: I      Supervision 9      Institutional and Engineering (3)        7
Groundwater Regulations (1)
Farmer Organization (1)
Agricultural (1)
Economics (1)
FY2001:I       Supervision 10     Economics (3)                           14
(Light)           Agricultural (2)
Engineering (3)
Farmer Organization (2)
Groundwater Regulations (2)
l _____________    __________________    Monitoring  and  Evaluation  (2)
Total FY2001                                                              21
Total                                                                     93



-139-
Pakistan                                                             Annex 10
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 1: Financial & Economic Prices Used in Project Analysis
(July 1995 constant Rs)
Financial     Economic
Outputs                                         Unit    1995-2005       1995-2005
Kharif Crops
Paddy (Basmati) la             kg               4.0           9.1
Cotton                         kg               8.0           16.6
Sugar Cane                     kg               0.4           0.4
Maize (Grain)                  kg               4.4           5.6
Frui                           ha       Value Basis    Value Basis
Fodder (Maize. Sorghum) /b     kg               0.4            0.4
Rabi Crops
Wheat /c                       kg               4.6            6.5
Fruit                          ha       Value Basis    Value Basis
Fodder (Berseem) /d            kg               0.5           0.5
Inputs
Seed
Rice Seed                      kg               6.0           5.4
Cotton Seed                    kg               9.6           8.6
Sugarcane Cuttings             kg               0.6           0.5
Wheat Seed                     kg               5.7            5.1
Maize Seed                     kg               4.8           4.3
Kharif Fodder Seed             kg               5.5           5.0
Rabi Fodder Seed               kg              60.0          54.0
Fruit Tree Seedlings /e        ha             500.0         450.0
Fertilizers
Nitrogen                       kg              10.6           12.1
Phoshate                       kg               9.9          10.9
Potash                         kg               9.0            9.3
FYM /f                         cart           125.0         112.5
Chemicals
Pesticides                   umpsum     Value Basis    Value Basis
Land Preparatlon/Cultivatlon
Bullock Pair                   day             60.0          54.0
Mechanical Services            hr              75.0          67.5
CanallSTW Water
Canal Water /g                 ha        Value Basis    Value Basis
Pumped by STW                m3'000           186.0         200.0
Pumped by PTWs               m3 000           143.0
Energy
Electricity /h                kwh               2.2           2.5
Diesel /i                       1               6.5           5.2
Well Investments
Transfer of STW               well         10,000.0       9,000.0
Acquisition of Modified STW /j    well     42,300.0       38,070.0
Installation of New CTW /k    well         67,000.0       60,300.0
Installation of Private Tubewell    welt   45,900.0       41,310.0
Engine Replacement            well      Value Basis    Value Basis
Watercourse Improvement
Watercourse Improvement /I    course      503,590.0      453,231.0
Misc
Cotton Harvesting              kg               8.0           7.2
Cane Harvesting               40 kg             1.0           0.9
Wheat Harvesting/Milling       kg               4.2            3.7
Other Harvest Costs          umpsum     Value Basis    Value Basis
Labor
Farm Labour                                  day             65.0           58.5
\a Financial: based on estimated procurement price
\b Harvest price for sold field.
\c Financial based on estimated procurement price.
\d Harvest price for sold field.
\e Assumed average annual replacement cost.
Uf Urban market price Rs 130-140 for dry manure less transport.
\g Double abiana (surface plus STW water charge) w/o project, single abiana w project.
\h Financial: average tariff; economic: LRMC.
ki Financial: based on Govemment fixed price.
\j Assuming 20% of modified wells are electric and the remaider are diesel.
\k 1.5 cs diesel pump.
\I Based on command area of 150 ha (appr. 350 ac).



-140-
Pakistan                                                     Annex 10
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 2a: Financial Operating Costs of Tubewells
(average electricity taritl)                                            Electrical                                Diesel
Operating Parameters              Unit    Unit Cost    3 cs Public a/   3 cs CTW b/  1.5 cs CTW c/   1.5 cs CTW d/    I cs Private
Motor Rating                 hp                                  30             30             12              16                12
Utilization                  %                                 35%            35%            35%             35%               12%
Utilization                  hr/yr                            3,066          3,066          3,066           3,066             1,051
Electricity C'onsumption     kwh/yr                          68,617         68,617         28.819
Diesel Consumption           I/yr                                                                           6,515             1,708
Engine Oil                   I/yr                                                                             104                30
Rs'000
Operating C'osts
Electricitv
Fixed Charges                                                                11.0            5.3
Variable Charges (Public)   kwh/yr            2 24           153.7
Variable Charges (Private)  kwh/yr            2.24                          153 7           64.6
Diesel                       1/yr               6 5                                                           42.3             11 I
Engine Oil                                      45                                                            4.7                1 3
Lubricants & Grease          sum/yr                             0 4            0.4            0.2              0.2              0.2
Cotton Waste, Other          sum/yr                             0.2            0.2            0.1              0 2              0.2
Repair & Maintenance         sum/yr                             4.5            4.5            2.6              1.8              1.5
Management & Supervision     sum/yr                            30.0            8 4            8.4              8.4              4.2
'Total Operating Costs                                          188.8         178.2           81.1             57.6              186
Capital Cost                                                   300.0          300.0           43.2             67.0             45 9
Plant Amortization            sum/yr                            20.0           20.0            9.6              9.6              6.6
Unit Operating Costs
Quantity Pumped               AF                               758.6          758.6          380.0            380 0             8h 8
Quantity Pumped               '000 m3                          935.8          9358           468.8            468.8             107.1
Operating Cost of'Water        Rs/AF                           248.9          234 9          213.3            151.6            213.7
Operating Cost ol'Water       Rs/000 m'                        201.8          190.4          172.9            122.9             173i.3
Operating Cost of Water       Rs/hr                             61.6           58 1           26.4             18.8              17 6
Unit Capital Replacement Costs
Quantity Pumped                AF                              758.6          758.6          380.0            380.0             86.8
Quantity Pumped               '000 m3                          935.8          935.8          468.8            468.8            107.1
Amortization Cost             Rs/AF                             26.4           26.4           25.3             25 3             76.0
Amortization Cost             Rs/000 m3                         21.4           21.4           20.5             20.5             6i.6
Amortization Cost             Rs/hr                              6.5            6.5            3.1              3.1              6.3
Total lJnit Cost of Pumpage
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/AF                            275.2          261.3          238 6            176 9            28'1 8
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/000 m3                        223.1          211.8          193.4            143.4            234 9
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/hr                             68.1           64.6           29.6             21.9             23.9
a/ Existilig operational STWs
b/ STWs taken over by farmers with minior modifications
.U STWs taken over by fanrers witlh replacement of pump and motor
d/ New tubewells set up by fanners.



-141-
Pakistan                                                     Annex 10
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 2b: Economic Operating Costs of Tubewels
Electrical                               Diesel
Operating Parameters              Unit    Unit Cost    3 cs Public at   3 cs CTW b/   1.5 cs CTW c/   1.5 cs CTW d/    I cs Private
Motor Rating                 hp                                  30             30             12               16               12
lJtilization                 %                                 35%            35%            35%              35%               12%
UJtilization                 hr/yr                            3,066          3,066          3,066            3,066             1,051
Electricity Consumption      kwh/yr                          68,617         68,617         28,819
Diesel Consumption           I/yr                                                                            6,515             1,708
Fnginie Oil                  1/yr                                                                             104                30
Rs'000
Operating Costs
Electricity
l ixed Charges                                                                9.9            4.7
Variable Charges (Public)   kwh/yr            2.54            174.3
Variable Charges (Private)  kwh/yr            2.54                          174.3           73.2
Diesel                       I/yr               5.2                                                           33.9               8.9
Engine Oil                                       36                                                            3.8               1.1
Lubricants & (irease         sum/yr                             0.4            0.4            0.1              0.2              0.2
Cotton Waste, Other          sum/yr                              0.2           0.2            0.1              0.2              0.2
Repair & Maintenance         sum/yr                             4.1            4.1           2.34              1.6               1.4
Management & Supervision     sum/yr                            27.0            7.6            7.6              7.6              3.8
Total Costs                                                    205.9          196.3           88.1             47.1             15.5
Capital Cost                                                   270.0          270.0           38.9             60.3             41.3
Plant Amortization            sum/yr                             18.0          18.0            5.6              8.6              5.9
Unit Operating Costs
Quantity Pumped               AF                               758.6          758.6          380.0            380.0             86.8
Quantity Pumped                000 m3                          935.8          935.8          468.8            468.8            107.1
Operating Cost of Water       Rs/AF                            271.4          258.8          231.7            124.1            178.0
Operating Cost of Water        Rs/000 m3                       220.0          209.8          187.9            100.6            144.3
Operating Cost of Water        Rs/hr                             67.1          64.0           28.7             15.4             14.7
Ulnit Amortization Costs
Quantity Pumped               AF                                758.6         758.6          380.0            380.0             86.8
Quantity Pumped               '000 m3                          935.8          935.8          468.8           468.8             107.1
Amortization Cost             Rs/AF                             23.7           23.7           14.6             22.7             68.0
Amortization Cost             Rs/000m3                           19.2          19.2           11.8             18.4             55.1
Amortization Cost              Rs/hr                              5.9           5.9            1.8              2.8              5.6
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/AF                            295.1          282.5          246.4            146.7            246.0
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/000 m3                        239.2          229.0          199.7            119.0            199.4
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage    Rs/hr                              73.0          69.9           30.5             18.2             20.3
a/ Existing operational STWs
b/ STWs taken over by farmers with minor modifications
c/ STWs taken over by farmers with replacement of pump and motor
d/ New tibewells set tip by fanners.



Annex I 1
rAKISTAN
PFNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1 Cropping Panta rn  DIfferen Production Systema
(Wth Wntercourse Renrvation and Canal Impovements)
CottonWheet System af                                      Sugar Cane-Wheat System  b/                                      RIce-Wheat System C/
SmeS Fwn (2.5 he)                Lrge Farms i10 hal            Smial Farmn (2.5 ha)           Large Farms 110 ha)          Smal Forms (2.5 ha              Lorge Farms (10 ha)
Present 4   Future w System    Present &   Future w System    Prsoem &  Futurf w System     Present &  Future w System     Present &  Future w SyStem    Prent &  Future w System
Crep                              Futore     Iproveerts           Futur      Improventerts       Future    tmprrmroments       Future    Improveroernts      Future    Improvements         Future    iprovemns            s
KhwII Cr"
RPic telmati)                           5              6               5               5             15             18             11              1850                          55             50              56
Cotton                                 35             41              35              41              5             12              5              13              1              1              1               1
Sugar Ca                                4               2               3              2             12             12             15              15             5               5              5               5
Khleif Foddwe4rlbeo Sorghum)           10              10              5               5             16             16             12              12            10              10              6              6
Other Makzel d/                         7               8               5              5              7              a              6               6             8               9              a               8
Fnjit                                   4               5               3              4              2              2              1               2             2               3              2               3
Sub-Total 6                                         72              56             62             57             6e             so              66            76              83             72              79
eAN Crops
Wheat                                  64             66              56              60             54             56             45              45            52              54            49              53
ROl Foder i8erseernl                    9              10               6              6             18             19             10              10            16              17             10              10
Fruit                                   2               2               2              2              a              9             12              14             1               1              1               1
Sub-ToW                              75              78              54             6s             so             84             67              69            69              72             60              64
Ttal                                140             150             120            130            137            152            117             135           145             155            132             143
*/ Reprentativ of SCARPs Ill, VI and Vil.
b/ FR prnt atrv of SCARPs II and V.
C/ Representative of SCARP IV.
d/ Maize used as proxy (or other crops including oilseads and pulses.



ANNC
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2s: Oee Heacta Crop BDdget for BDsmati Rice
Quantities                                                             Values
Small Fume                      Lage Famt                            Small Fams                      Large Fame
Unit
Unit         Price           Present      Future              Presnt      Future                    Present    Future              Presnt        Future
Yld (Paddy)                                  kg                4.0           1,300         1,360              1,360        1,440                    5,200     5,440                 5,440         5,760       1-
Seed                                         kg                6.0             12            12                 12            12                      72         72                   72            72
Fortilizer
Nitrogen(N)                                 kg               10.6             22            23                 24           26                      233        244                  254           276
Phosphats(P205)                             kg                9.9             11            12                 12            13                     109        114                   119          129
Potash (K20)                                kg                9.0              2             2                  2             3                      20         21                    22           23
Poesticides                               lumpsum              1.0            200           200                200           200                     200        200                   200          200
Power
Bullock                                   pairdays           60.0             10            10                  0             0                     600        600                    0             0
Mechanical                                 hours             75.0              0             0                 12            12                       0          0                   900          900
CanalWaterCharge a/                       lumpsum              1.0            160            80                160            so                     160         80                   160           80
Other (2% of all costs, inc. labor)       lumpsum                               2             2                  2             2                      73         75                    81           83
Total Costs                                  Rs                                                                                                     1,467      1,405                1,808         1,763
Gros Returms b/                              Re                                                                                                     3,733     4,035                 3,632         3,997
Manual labor                                days              65.0              35           37                 36            38                    2,275      2,405                2,340         2,470
Retum to labor                             Rs/Day                                                                                                    107        109                   101          106
Net Economic Retums c/                       Rs                                                                                                     8,379     8,861                 8,659         9,203
a/ Double abiana (surface water charge plus STW water charge) in the present and without project siuation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the with project situation. Addititional pumping casts
in the with prject sduation are incduded in the farm models
b/ Value of production, less direct input costs excluding labor.
c Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10). Includes surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2b: One ectore Crop Budget for Cotton
Quantities                                                             Values
Smnall Farm                     Large Famis                          Smail Farns                     Large Farts
Unit
Unit         Price           Present      Future              Present     Future                    Presnt    Future               Prent         Future
Rs           .....
Y  ld(Seed Cotton)                           kg                80            1,280         1,350              1,400        1,480                   10,240    10,800                11,200        11,840
Seed                                         kg                9.6             25            25                 25            25                     240        240                   240          240
Fewizer
Nitrogen                                    kg               10.6             32            34                 36           38                      339        360                   382          403
Phphate                                     kg                9 9              19           21                 22           24                      186        208                   218          238
Potash                                      kg                9 0              3             3                  4            4                       29         31                    32           34
Peaiclda                                uknpsun               1.0           1,400        1,400               1,400        1,400                    1,400     1,400                 1,400         1,400
Pr-
Bullock                                   psedays            60.0             22            24                  0            0                    1,320      1,440                     0            0
Mcahical                                  homss             75 0              0             0                 18           20                        0          0                 1,350         1,500
Harveating(10%)                          kgsshwe              8.0            128           135                140          148                    1,024      1,060                 1,120        1.184
CanalWaterChwrge a/                      knpsum               10             166            83                166           83                      166        83                   166            83
(3% pl all costs, nc  labor)            %                                  3             3                  3            3                      204       210                   214           223
Trtti Costs                                  Rs                                                                                                    4,910      5,052                 5,121         5,304
Gn Retums bl                                 Re                                                                                                     5,330     6,748                 6,079         6,536
ManualtLbor                                 days              650              32            33                 34            36                   2,080      2.145                 2,210         2,340
R tum to labor                             RalDay                                                                                                    167        174                   179          132
N  Econonic Returns cd                       Rs                                                                                                   13596      14,492                15,157        16,115
a/ Double abtana (surface water dirge plu 57W waler charge) an the present and without project siuation, sngle abiana (surface waler charge only) in the with protect sduation Addititional pumping costs
in the with prrect sduation are incuded n the tarm mocdels
bh Vatue of production, less direct input costs excluding labor
di Net of Labor cools, with production, inpuds and labor valued at ecornomic prices (see Anriex 10) Includes surface water costs (at economic pnces) but not pumped water.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2c: One Hectare Crop Budget for Sugar Cane
Quantities                                                              Values
Srnall Farms                     Large Farms                          Small Farms                      Large Farms
Unit
UnIt         Price            Present     Future               Present      Future                   Present    Future               Present        Future
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....                        ..__. ......  ......._._._ .... . .   R s _ ....     . . . . . . . ...  ._._.. _ . . . . .. . . . .
Rs
Ybld (Cane)                                   kg               0.43          36,000        38,000             40,000        42,000                   15,480     16,340                17,200        18,060
Cuttings at                                   kg                0.6             800           800                800           800                      480        480                   480           480
Fertilizer
Nitrogen                                     kg               10.6              36            38                 42            44                      382        403                   445           466          Vi
Phosphate                                    kg                9.9              18            19                 21            22                      176        188                   208           218
Potash                                       kg                9.0               6             6                  7             7                       54         57                    63            66
Pesticides                                 lumpsum              1.0             700           700                700           700                      700        700                   700           700
Power
Bullock                                   pairdays            60.0              20            24                  0             0                    1,200      1,440                     0             0
Mechanical                                  hours             75.0               0             0                 12            16                        0          0                   900         1,200
Harvesting                                Rs per 40 kg          1.0             900           950               1,000        1,050                      900        950                 1,000          1,050
Canal Water Charge b/                      lumpsum              1.0             300           150                300           150                      300        150                   300           150
Other (2% of all costs, ric. labor)           %                                   2             2                  2             2                      194        202                   195           202
Total Costs                                   Rs                                                                                                      4,388      4,569                 4,291          4,532
Gross Returns c                               Rs                                                                                                     11,092     11,771                 12,909        13,528
Manual labor                                 days              65 0              85            88                 87            89                    5,525      5.720                 5,655         5,785
Retum to labor                              Rs/Day                                                                                                      130        134                   148           152
Net Economic Returns d/                       Rs                                                                                                      5.373      5,327                 6,926          7,387
at One-third of plantig material replaced each year
b/ Double abiana (surface water charge plus STW water charge) in the present and without project situation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the wih project situation Addititional pumping costs
in the with projert situation are wicluded in the farm models
c/ Value of production, less derd input costs excluding labor.
d/ Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10). Includes surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2d: One fletare Crop Budget for Kharif Fodder (Maize Sorghum)
Quantities                                                              Values
Small Farmis                     Large Famis                          Small Farms                      Large Farms
Unit
Unit         Price            Present     Futur                Present     Future                     Present    Future              Present        Future
Rs
Yid (Green Fodder)                            kg               0.40           12,500       13,100              11.500       12,100                    5,000      5,240                  4,600        4,840         f,'
Seed                                          kg                5.5              20            20                 20            20                      110        110                   110           110
Ferblizer
Nitrogen                                     kg               10.6              25            26                 24            25                      265        276                   254           265
Phosphate                                    kg                9 9               8             9                  a             8                       82         86                    79            82
Potash                                       kg                9.0               3             3                  2             3                       23         23                    22            23
Power
Bulkodk                                    pairdays           60 0              10            10                  0             0                      600        600                     0             0
Michancal                                   hours             75 0               0             0                  8             8                        0          0                   600           600
Canal Water Charge a/                       kimpsum             10               96            48                 96            48                       96         48                    96            48
Other                                          %                                  2             2                  2             2                       55         55                    52            54
Total Costs                                   Rs                                                                                                       1,230      1,198                 1,213         1,181
Gross Retums bI                               Rs                                                                                                      3,770      4,042                  3,387        3,659
Manual labor                                 days              650               24            25                 22            24                     1,560      1,625                 1.430        1.560
Retum to labor                              Rs/Day                                                                                                      157        162                   154           182
Net Ecornomic Retums cf                       Rs                                                                                                      2,402      2,609                  2,142        2,291
a/ Double abiana (surface water charge plus S1W water charge) in the present and without project situation, single abiana (surface waler charge only) in the with project situation Addititional pumping costs
in the with proect siuation are icluded in the tarm models
b/ Value of production, less direct input costs excluding labor
d Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10) Includes surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUINJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2e: One Hectare Crop Budget for Maize (Grain)
Quantities                                                              Values
Small Farms                      Large Farms                          Small Farms                      Large Farms
Unit
Unit         Price            Present      Future              Present      Future                    Present    Future              Present        Future
Yeld (Grain)                                  kg                4.4           1,380         1,450               1,500        1,580                    6,072      6,380                 6,600        68952
Seed                                          kg                48               30            30                 30            30                      144        144                   144           144      -J
Fertilizer
Nirogen                                      kg               10 6              28            29                 31            33                      297        307                   329           350
Phosphate                                    kg                9.9              11            12                 12            14                      109        119                   119           139
Potash                                       kg                9 0               0             0                  0             0                        0          0                     0             0
Manure                                       cart             125.0               3             3                  3             3                      375        375                   375           375
Pesticides                                 lumpsum              1.0               0             0                  0             0                        0          0                     0             0
Power
Bullock                                   pairdays            60.0              10            10                  0             0                      600        600                     0             0
Mechanical                                  hours             75.0               0             0                 10            10                        0          0                   750           750
Canal Water Charge a/                      lumpsum              1 0              90            45                 90            45                       90         45                    90            45
Other                                         %                                   2             2                  2             2                       69         71                    75            78
Total Costs                                   Rs                                                                                                       1,683      1,661                 1,882         1,880
Gross Returns bi                              Rs                                                                                                      4,389      4,719                 4,718         8,072
Manual labor                                 days              65.0              28            30                 30            32                     1,820      1,950                 1950          2,0B0
Return to labor                             Rs/Day                                                                                                      157        157                   157           15B
Net Economic Returns c/                       Rs                                                                                                      4,480      4,771                 4,852          5,175
at Double abiana (surface water charge plus STWwater charge) in the present and without project situation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the with project satuation. Addititional pumping costs
in the with project situation are included in the farm models
bl Value of production, less direct input costs excluding labor.
c/ Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10). Includes surtace water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRtVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2f: One Hectare Crop Budget for Fruif Trees (Citrus, Mango, Guava)
Quantities                                                                 Values
Small Farms                       Large Faffs                            Small Farms                       Large Farms
Unit
Unit          Price            Present      Future               Present       Future                     Present    Future                Present        Future
Rs
Yield at                                     lumpsum               1 0           15,000        15.800              16.500         17.400                   15.000      15,800                 16.500         17,400
Seedlings bv                                 tumpsum               1 0             500            500                 500           500                       500         500                    500           500   H
Fertilzer                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co
Nirogen                                        kg                106               44             46                  50            5.4                      466        488                     530           572
Phosphate                                      kg                 9 9              13             14                  13            15                       129         139                    129           149
Potash                                         kg                 9 0               6              7                   6             7                        54          63                     54            63
Manure                                         cart              1250                4              4                   4             4                       438         500                    438           500
Pestictdes                                   kumpsum               1 0             300            300                 300           300                       300         300                    300           300
Power
Bullock                                     pairdays             600               12             12                   0             0                       720         720                      0             0
Mechanmcal                                   hours               75 0               0              0                  12            12                         0           0                    900           900
Canal Water Charge c/                        lumpsum               10              180             90                 180            90                       180          90                    180            90
Other                                           %                                    2              2                   2             2                       121         124                    128           132
Total Costs                                     Rs                                                                                                          2.907       2.923                  3.158          3.206
Gross Retums r1                                 Rs                                                                                                         12,093      12,877                 13,342        14,194
Manual labor                                   days               65 0              50             52                  52            54                     3.250       3,380                  3 380          3.510
Retum to labor                                Re/Day                                                                                                          242         248                    287           263
Net Economic Retums e/                         RB                                                                                                           7,810       8,390                  8,807         9,442
at At full production, assumed fruit sold directly oft tree for a lump sum
b/ Assumed average annual replacement cost
c/ Double abiana (surface water charge plus STW water charge) in the present and without protect situation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the with protect siuation Addititional pumping costs
in the wih project situation are included in the tarm models
d/ Value of production, less direct input costs exciuding labor
e Net ot labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10) Includes surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRtVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2g: One Hectare Crop Budget for Wheat
Quantities                                                              Values
Small Famms                      Large Farms                          Small Farms                      Large Farms
Unit
Unit         Price            Pmesent      Future              Present      Future                   Present    Future               Present        Future
Yeld (Grain)                                  kg                4.7            1,800        1,900               1,960        2,060                    8370       8,835                 9,114         9,579        p.
Seed                                          kg                5.7             100           100                100           100                      570        570                   570           570
Fertilizer
Nitrogen                                     kg               10.6              45            48                 50            53                      477        509                   530           562
Phosphate                                    kg                9 9              18            19                 20            22                      178        188                   198           218
Potash                                       kg                9.0               5             5                  5             5                       41         43                    45            48
Power
Bullock                                   pairdays            60.0               8             8                  0             0                      480        480                     0             0
Mechanical                                  hours             75.0               0             0                  8             8                        0          0                   600           600
Threshing/Milling                           kg share            4.7             180           190                196           206                      837        884                   911           958
Canal Water Charge a/                      lumpsum              10              108            54                108            54                      108         54                   108            54
Other                                         %                                   2             2                  2             2                       95         99                    98           102
Total Costa                                   Rs                                                                                                      2,786       2,826                 3,061         3,111
Gross Retumr  b/                              Rs                                                                                                      5,584       6,009                 6,053         6,468
Manual labor                                 days              65.0              32            34                 30            32                    2,080       2,210                 1,950         2.080
Retum to labor                              Rs/Day                                                                                                      174        177                   202           202
Net Econonmic Retums cl                       Rs                                                                                                       6,739      7,202                 7,597         8,049
at Double abiana (surface water charge plus STW water charge) in the present and without project situation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the with project sduation Addititional pumping costs
in the with project situation are included in the farm models
b/ Value of production, less direct input costs exscuding labor.
c/ Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at economic prices (see Annex 10). Includes surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
PUJNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2h: One Hecture Crop Budger for R*bi Fodder (Berscem)
Quantities                                                                Values
Small Fams                       Large Farms                            Small Farms                      Large Farms
Unit
Unit         Price            Present      Future               Present      Future                     Present    Future               Present        Future
Rs
Yid (Gren Fodder)                              kg               0.50           27.600        29,000              25,800        27.000                   13.800      14.500                12.900        13,500        t-4
Seed                                           kg               60.0               20            20                 20            20                     1.200       1.200                 1,200         1,200        0
Fertlizer
Nitrogen                                      kg                10.6             14             15                 13             15                      148        159                    138           159
Phosphate                                     kg                 9.9              8              9                  8              9                       83         89                     77            89
Potash                                        kg                 9.0               1             2                  1              2                       13         14                     12            14
Pe tdci:es                                 ukmpwm                1t0                0             0                  0              0                        0          0                      0             0
Power
Bullock                                    pardays             60 0               12            12                  0              0                      720        720                      0             0
Medanical                                   hours              75.0               0             0                 12             12                        0          0                    900           900
CanalWater Charge a/                        kimpsum               10               96            48                 96             48                       96         48                     96            48
Other                                          %                                    2             2                  2              2                      115        117                    116           118
TSal Costs                                     RS                                                                                                        2,376       2,347                 2,539         2,528
Gro  Rms bv                                    Rs                                                                                                       11,424      12,153                10,361        10,972
Manuallabor                                   days               650               54            56                 52             54                    3,510       3,640                 3,380         3.510
Retum to labor                               Rs/Day                                                                                                        212        217                    199           203
Net Econonic Retumas c                         Rs                                                                                                        8,448       9,052                 7,528         8,013
a/ Double abmana (surface water charge plus STW water charge) in the present and wihDlot project situation, single abiana (surface water charge only) in the with pr1eCt situation Additional pumping costs
in the wih prnect situation are included in the farm models
bi Vakie of production, less dired iput costs excludin labor.
ri Net of labor costs, with production, inputs and labor valued at ecoonomic pnces (see Annex 10) lnckdeas surface water costs (at economic prices) but not pumped water



PAKISTAN                                                                 Annex 11
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 3: Project Impact on Farm Incomes at full Development (000 Rupees per Years)
Small Farms                                        Large Farms
Future     Future                               Future     Future
Future      With      With STWs                  Future      With    With STWs
Without      STWs    Transfer                    Without    STWs    Transfer
Present   Project   Transfer  to CTWs            Present    Project  Transfer   to CTWS
to CTWs   and System                            to CTWs   and System
Improvements                                     Improvements
Cotton Wheat System
Cropped Area              3.50       3.50       3.50        3.75         12.00      12.00       12.00      13.00
Production Value         30.89      32.56      32.56       34.95       114.71      120.82     120.82      131.32
Input Costs              10.82      10.99      10.99       11.85        41.42       42.32      42.32       46.57
of which Abiana          0.46       0.23       0.23        0.24          1.60       0.80       0.80        0.86
Gross Margin             20.07      21.57      21.57       23.10         73.29      78.51       78.51      84.75
Hired Labor                                                              10.68      12.24       12.24      14.25
Pumping Costs                        2.31       0.72        0.65                     4.08       2.89        2.60
Capital Cost of TWs                             0.12        0.11                     1.45        0.48       0.43
Net Income               20.07      19.26      20.73       22.34         60.61      62.74       62.89      67.46
Family Labor            122.62   128.60       128.60      136.60       250.00      250.00    250.00       250.00
Ret. to Family Labor   0.16          0.15       0.16        0.16          0.25        0.24       0.25       0.27
Sugarcane Wheat System
Cropped Area              3.42       3.42       3.42        3.80         11.70      11.70    11.70        13.50
Production Value         31.05      32.70      32.70       36.31       118.12      124.23   124.23       142.96
Input Costs               8.71       8.77       8.77       10.06        33.51       34.04    34.04        40.46
of which Abiana          0.46       0.23       0.23        0.26          1.69       0.85      0.85        1.00
Gross Margin             22.35      23.93      23.93       26.25         84.61      90.19    90.19       102.50
Hired Labor                                                              15.35      16.87    16.87        21.52
Pumping Costs                        2.83       0.89        0.80                      5.00      3.55       3.19
Capital Cost of TWs                              0.15       0.13                      1.78      0.59       0.53
Net Income               22.35      21.10      22.90       25.32         69.26      66.55    69.19        77.25
Family Labor            137.12   143.75       143.75      157.45       250.00      250.00   250.00       250.00
Ret. to Family Labor   0.16          0.15        0.16       0.16          0.28        0.27      0.28       0.31
Rice Wheat System
Cropped Area               3.62      3.62        3.62       3.87         13.20      13.20    13.20        14.30
Production Value         27.60      29.02      29.02       31.02       103.08      108.52   108.52       117.28
Input Costs               7.84       7.81       7.81        8.30         31.97      32.09    32.09        34.67
of which Abiana          0.48       0.24       0.24        0.26          1.78       0.89      0.89        0.97
Gross Margin              19.76     21.22      21.22       22.72         71.11       76.43     76.43      82.50
Hired Labor                                                              14.87       16.58     16.58      19.25
Pumping Costs                        2.23        0.70       0.63                      3.93      2.79       2.51
Capital Cost of TWs                              0.12       0.10                      1.40      0.47       0.42
Net Income                19.76     18.99      20.40       21.99         56.24       54.52    56.59       60.33
Family Labor            133.72   140.82       140.82      150.60        250.00     250.00   250.00       250.00
Ret. to Family Labor   0.15          0.13        0.14       0.15          0.22        0.22      0.23       0.24



-152-
PAKISTAN                                   Annex 11
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 4: Project Impact on Average Farm Incomes at full Development
(000 Rupees per Year)
Present       Future       Future      Future
Without      With        With STWs
STWs         STWs       Transfer
Transfer  Transfer       to CTWs
to CTWs      and System
Improvements
Small Farms
Cropped Area                3.47         3.47         3.47          3.81
Production Value           30.34        31.95        31.95         35.09
Input Costs                 8.79         8.84         8.84          9.92
of which Abiana            0.46         0.23         0.23          0.26
Gross Margin               21.56        23.11        23.11         25.17
Pumping Costs                            2.65         0.83          0.75
Capital Cost of TWs                                    0.14         0.12
Net Income                 21.56        20.46        22.14         24.30
Family Labor              134.70       141.35       141.35       153.58
Return to Family Labor    0.16           0.14          0.16         0.16
Large Farms
Cropped Area               12.04        12.04        12.04         13.60
Production Value          114.70       120.68       120.68       136.41
Input Costs                34.15        34.64        34.64        40.04
of which Abiana            1.70         0.85         0.85          0.97
Gross Margin               80.55        86.04         86.04        96.37
Hired Labor                14.69        16.25         16.25        20.19
Pumping Costs                            4.68         3.32          2.99
Capital Cost of TWs                      1.66         0.55          0.50
Net Income                 65.86        63.44        65.91         72.69
Family Labor              250.00       250.00       250.00       250.00
Return to Family Labor    0.26           0.25          0.26         0.29



-153-
PAKISTAN                                   Annex 11
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 5: Project Impact on Production at full Development (000 tons)
(of the Area Participating in the Project)
Present       Future       Future         Future
Without       With          With STWs
STWs          STWs         Transfer
Transfer   Transfer         to CTWs
to CTWs    to CTWS        and System
Improvements
Small Farms
BASMATI                   108.60        113.61         113.61        121.20
COTTON                     40.10         42.29          42.29         55.06
SUGARCANE               1,393.80      1,471.23      1,471.23       1,463.18
KHARIF FODDER             706.86        740.79        740.79         740.79
OTHER                      39.91         41.93          41.93         44.49
KHARIF FRUIT              134.95        142.14         142.14        151.07
WHEAT                     396.16        418.17         418.17        424.88
RABI FODDER             1,831.22      1,924.11      1,924.11       1,975.29
RABI FRUIT                354.23        373.13         373.13        392.09
Large Farma
BASMATI                    98.75        104.56        104.56         119.71
COTTON                     43.86         46.36          46.36         62.45
SUGARCANE               1,857.11      1,949.97      1,949.97       1,941.07
KHARIF FODDER             460.02        484.02        484.02         484.02
OTHER                      37.83         39.85          39.85         39.85
KHARIF FRUIT               95.43        100.63        100.63         131.34
WHEAT                     370.92        389.85         389.85        394.50
RABI FODDER               986.46      1,032.34      1,032.34       1,032.34
RABI FRUIT                569.91        600.99         600.99        642.76
Total
BASMATI                   207.35        218.18         218.18        240.91
COTTON                     83.96         88.65          88.65        117.52
SUGARCANE               3,250.91      3,421.20      3,421.20       3,404.26
KHARIF FODDER           1,166.88      1,224.81      1,224.81       1,224.81
OTHER                      77.74         81.78          81.78         84.34
KHARIF FRUIT              230.37        242.77        242.77         282.41
WHEAT                     767.08        808.02         808.02        819.38
RABI FODDER             2,817.67      2,956.44      2,956.44       3,007.63
RABI FRUIT                924.14        974.12         974.12      1,034.85



-154-
PAKISTAN                                  Annex 11
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table 6: Project Economic Benefits at full Production
(Million Rupees per Year)
(of Area Participating in the Project)
Present        Future       Future        Future
Without        With         With STWs
STWs          STWs        Transfer
Transfer      Transfer    to CTWs
to CTWs        to CTWs    and System
Improvements
Small Farms
Production Value          6,64B.6       6,999.5       6,999.5       7,385.9
Gross Margin              5,164.1       5,494.6       5,494.6       5,79S.2
Pumping Costs                             216.2         109.1          98.1
Capital Cost of Pumps                                    19.9          17.9
Economic Returns          5,164.1       5,278.4       5,365.6       5,679.1
Large Farms
Production Value          6,268.5       6,599.6       6,599.6       7,096.5
Gross Margin              4,824.2       5,125.2       5,125.2       5,515.7
Hired Labor                 530.9         587.6         587.6         650.1
Pumping Costs                             156.4         109.1          98.1
Capital Cost of Pumps                      59.8          19.9          17.9
Economic Returns          4,293.2       4,321.5       4,408.6       4,749.5
Total
Production Value         12,916.9      13,598.9      13,598.9      14,482.3
Gross Margin              9,988.3      10,619.8      10,619.8      11,310.9
Hired Labor                 530.9         587.6         587.6         650.1
Pumping Costs                             372.6         218.1         196.3
Capital Cost of Pumps                      59.8          39.9          35.9
Economic Returns          9,457.3       9,599.9       9,774.3      10,428.6
Incremental Benefits                                   174.4          654.3
SW pumping costs in present scenario are excluded.



Pakistan                                                                    Annex 11
Punjab Privatization of Groundwater Development Project
Table 7a: Economic Analysis
Base Case (75 Percent Participation)
(Rs million)
Surface System                                                 Surface System
Improvement                                                    Improvement                     Total Project
STW              WCs                           STW                               WCs                          STWs and
Pnvatization     and Canals       Total        Privatization   STW Pnvatization  and Canals   Surface Systems Surface Systems
year     Costs 11         Costs 21        Cost          Benefits       Net Benefits       Benefits      Net Benefits    Net Benefits
1      81.3              39.7          121.0                           (81.3)                           (39.7)         (121.0)
2      202.4            165.6          368.0            8.7            (193.7)                          (165.6)        (359.3)
3      193.4            483.9          677.3           43.6            (149.8)           32.7           (451.2)        (601.0)
4      196.4            658.7          855.1           87.2            (109.2)           98.2           (560.5)         (669.7)
5      151.2            443.5          594.7           148.2            (3.0)           229.0           (214.5)        (217.4)
6                                                      174.4           174.4            359.9           359.9           534.3
7                                                      174.4           174.4            490.8           490.8           665.2
8                                                      174.4           174.4            556.2           556.2           730.6                    Ln
9                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
10                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
11                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
12                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
13                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
14                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
15                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
16                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
17                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
18                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
19                                                      174.4           174.4            654.3           654.3           828.7
20                                                      174.4            174.4           654.3           654.3           828.7
Total
Costs      824.7            1,791.4       2,616.1          ERR             19.3%                            25.85%         23.86%
1/ Includes the cost of CTWs, community mobilization, redeployment of STW staff,
the development of a regulatory framework, and project management.
2/ Includes civil works, M&E, and Technical Assistance.



Pakistan                                                                    Annex 11
Punjab Privatization of Groundwater Development Project
Table 7b: Economic Analysis
Participation Half that of Base Case (37 Percent)
(Rs million)
Surface System                                                  Surface System
Improvement                                                    Improvement                      Total Project STWs
STW             WCs                            STW                              WCs                             and Surface
Pnvatization    and Canals      Total          Privatization   STW Privatization  and Canals    Surface Systems      Systems
year     Costs 1/        Costs 2/       Cost            Benefits      Net Benefits       Benefits         Net Benefits     Net Benefits
1       73.4            30.8         104.2                            (73.4)                             (30.8)            (104.2)
2      160.1            127.3        287.4              4.8           (155.3)                            (127.3)          (282.6)
3      151.1           390.2         541.3             23.8           (127.3)           17.8             (372.4)          (499.7)
4      154.1           496.9         651.0             47.5           (106.5)           53.5             (443.4)          (549.9)
5      117.0            307.3        424.3             80.8            (36.2)           124.8            (182.5)          (218.7)
6                                                      95.0            95.0             196.1             196.1            291.2
7                                                      95.0            95.0             267.5             267.5            362.5
8                                                      95.0            95.0             303.1             303.1            398.2
9                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
10                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
11                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
12                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
13                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
14                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
15                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
16                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
17                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
18                                                      95 0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
19                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
20                                                      95.0            95.0             356.6             356.6            451.7
Total     655.6          1,352.5       2,008.1            ERR            12.0%                              18.95%           16.82%
1/ Indudes the cost of CTWs, community mobilization, redeployment of STW staff,
the development of a regulatory framework, and project management
2/ Includes civil works, M&E, and Technical Assistance.



Pakistan                                                   Annex 11
Punjab Privatization of Groundwater Development Project
Figure 1: Sensitivity Analysis of Base Case
60.0%
50.0%
4040%
~30. 0%
10% ~~~~~~~~~~~% change in benefits
% changein costs             -20%
-30%
40%



Pakistan                                                        Annex 11
Punjab Privatization of Groundwater Development Project
Figure 2: Locus of Switching Values for the Base Case
160% 
140%
120% 
0
t,
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
40%
V  I     I         I                ~~      ~      ~~~~~~0%  I 
20%
-5 %      40%        -30%       -20%      -10%        0' Mo     10%        20%        3 %
% change in benefits
-locus of variations yielding an ERR of 12%



-159-
Pakistan                                           Annex 12
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table la: Economic Price Derivation for Wheat
year      1995        1996       1997       2000       2005
(S/t)
White Wheat, Australia (fob)                        130        125         133        143        114
Transport and Insurance                              27         27          27         27         27
cif, Karachi                                        155         151        159        170        141
(Rs/t)
cif, Karachi                                       4960       4842       5092        5425       4510
Port Charges                                        200        200        200         200        200
Storage and Handling                                314        314        314         314        314
Transport to Mill                                    63         63         63          63         63
At-Mill Price                                      5691       5570       5827        6171       5227
Less Transport to Gujranwala 2'                     539        539        539         539        539
Value at Gujranwala Market                         6013       5895       6145       6477        5562
Less Local Agent's Commission                       150        147        154         162        139
Less Transport - Farm to Market                      98         98         98          98         98
Value at Farmgate                                  5764       6140       6396       6737        5799
Import Parity Value at Farmgate (Rs/40kg)           231        246        256        269         232
Local Farmgate Price (Rs/40 kg)                     166        177        184         194        194
Ratio of Border to Local Farmgate Price            1.39        1.39       1.39       1.39       1.20
Average Conversion Factor               1.35
F Competing with subsidised deliveries of wheat to Karachi from Middle Eastern sources.
2/ Estimated at Rs 0.45/t/km for approximately 1300 km.



-160-
Pakistan                                          Annex 12
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table lb: Economic Price Derivation for Sugarcane
year      1995       1996       1997       2000        2005
(S/t)
Mill White Sugar, Caribbean Ports (fob)            295        279        253        263         256
Transport and Insurance                             37          37         37         37         37
cif. Karachi                                       332        315        289         300        293
(Rs/t)
cif, Karachi                                     10617      10095       9259       9607        9363
Port Charges                                       213        213        213        213         213
Storage and Handling                               314        314        314         314        314
Value at Karachi Market                          11144      10622       9786       10134       9890
Transport to Faisalabad                            774        774        774         774        774
At-Mill Price. Faisalabad                        11918      11396      10560       10908      10664
Less Milling Costs 1                              4439       4439       4439       4439       4439
Value of Cane. ex Mill                             636        591        520        550         529
Less Local Agent's Commission                       16         15         13          14         13
Less Transport - Farm to Market                    116        116        116         116        116
Value at Farmgate                                  504        460        391        420         400
Import Parity Value at Farmgate (Rs/40kg)           20         18          16         17         16
Local Farmgate Price (Rs/40)                        17         17         17          17         17
Ratio of Border to Local Farrngate Price           1.17       1.07       0.91       0.98       0.93
Average Conversion Factor              0.98
" Adjusted by 0.97 for value of by-products.



-161-
Pakistan                                         Annex 12
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table Ic: Economic Price Derivation for Cotton
year      1995       1996       1997       2000       2005
($/t)
Import Price Cotton, European Port (cif)          1970       1654       1437       1633       1589
Transport and Insurance                            132        132        132        132        132
fob, Karachi                                      1838       1523       1305       1501       1457
(Rs/t)
cif, Karachi                                    58822      48722      41756      48026      46632
Port Charges                                      435        435        435        435        435
Loading                                           281        281        281        281        281
Transport to Multan                                353       353        353        353        353
ex Gin Price, baled raw, Multan                 57754      47653      40688      46957      45564
ex Gin Value of Cottonseed                       4840       4840       4840       4840       4840
Ginning Costs                                     1301      1301        1301      1301        1301
Value of Seed Cotton at Gin, Multan             21001       17668     15369      17438      16978
Transport to Gin                                   121        121       121         121        121
Local Agent's Commission                          525        442        384        436        424
Transport from Farm                                91         91         91         91         91
Value at Farngate                               20264      17014      14773      16790      16342
Export Parity Value at Farmgate (Rs/40kg)         811        681        591        672        654
Local Farmgate Price (Rs/40)                      320        320        320        320        320
Ratio of Border to Local Farmgate Price           2.53       2.13       1.85       2.10       2.04
Average Conversion Factor              2.07
"Using lint to seed cotton ginning percentage of 33%.



-162-
Pakistan                                          Annex 12
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Table Id: Economic Price Derivation for Basmati Paddy (near Gujranwala)
year      1995       1996       1997       2000        2005
Export Price, Karachi $/t (fob)"                   578        568        562         542        534
(Rs/t)
Export Price, Karachi (fob)                      18496      18176      17984       17344      17088
Port Charges                                       418        418        418        418         418
Storage and Handling                               290        290        290        290         290
Transport to Gujranwala                            483        483        483        483         483
At Depot Price, Gujranwala                       17305      16985      16793       16153      15897
Transport Local Mill to Depot                       91         91          91         91         91
Value of Export Basmati ex Mill                  17214      16894      16702      16062       15806
Value of Bran                                      303        303        303        303         303
Cost of Rice Milling                               151        151         151        151        151
Cost of Bags for Export                            392        392        392        392         392
Value of Paddy at Mill                            9815       9623       9508       9124        8970
Commission for Local Agent                         113        111        110         105        103
Transport Farm to Mill (as Paddy)                   91         91         91          91         91
Value at Farmgate                                 9611       9421       9308       8928        8777
Export Parity Value at Farngate (Rs/40kg)          384        377        372        357         351
Local Farmgate Price (Rs/40)                       160        160        160         160        160
Ratio of Border to Local Farmgate Price           2.40       2.36        2.33       2.23       2.19
Average Conversion Factor              2.27
' Assuming the trend follows that for Thai exports, fob Bangkok.



Pakistan                                                                                 Chart I
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
Proposed Project Management Unit
Provincial Policy Committee
|Project Coordination Committee
PMt!
Project Director
.,                                                                       |                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director
|(NVIIS, Admistration, Budget & Acc ounts)|
Director (Regulation)                              Member (Irrigation)                                       Director                              Member (Water Management)
. -- DC)velopmcnt of GWRF                               (Chief Engineer. PID)                     (Community Development Support Group)                          (DG OFWM)
- Monitoring and Impact Evaluation            -- SCARPs Closure                                   -- Management & Coordination of CIW                    -- Watercourse Improvement
-- Retrieval of S5'1W machiner\                         Establishiment                                    -- Social Mobilization
-- Canal & Drainage Rehabilitation/Lining          -- Supervision of Consultants
-- Watercourse assessment sursec
T--Taining of SOs
Impact Evaluation Consultants       CRs1,1,IVVCal/rainage ConstruICtion                                   Community Mobilization                              ea      n
[~~-CA-Rps 11,111, 1\1 \/I  Division                  Technical Coordinators
&Surveyors I/
I/ tncludes Social Mobilization Teams For details see Chart 2



Pakistan                                                             C hart 2
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Pro'ject
Proposed Organization for Community Development and Support Group
Social Consulting Team:
Team Leader
Deputy Team Leader
Training Specialist (5 months)
Social Organization Specialist, (15 months)
0%
Social                       Social            lSocial                                   Social                          1
Coordinator/Technical         Coordinator/Technical        Coordinator/Technical         CoordinatorTechnical
Support Group I              Support Group 2               Support Group 3               Support Group 5
Mandi Bahaudin                   Sargodha                   Garh Mahraja                    Sharqpur
Part of SCARP 11            Part of SCARP 11 &           SCARP III, Rangpur,                SCARP IV
Shahpur                 TP Link & SCARP V
Social Organizers            Social Organizers             Social Organizers             Social Organizers
|  (15)  1             1     (14)                           (8)                          (12)
Note Number of Social Organizers is indicati'e. Thcy will be recruitcd as nccded h% the project.






PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUNJAB PROVINCE
P:OIeC7 AREAS                                                -         RG(5,m            -----RIVERS  C 3 MRRAGES,OMS NV,51 BOWlETJDRJTS
*     PROIECT HEADT;UARIERS OHCE           CANALS & BRANCHES         0    SElECTED TOWINS               PROVINCE bCUtN(AkE l
FIEWD OFFICES                        SURFACE DRAINS           6     NATIONAL CANIAL      -        NERATCJAE BCTRI.AR ES
UNK CANALS               -    MAIN ROADS
I                            I                            I                      *     It
7E.                          7 1                          72                   5        73            x         :   74,5
3'
31-
\ i \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, JKA5H    
0     20  A3 O    603 1BR   Er)4    
KILOMAlERS                         Chosh,oo  /-- GiJKOSte_ 
M.~~~~~~~~~~~.
SA               OD       A|               JloB !/'  * ; '7I    ,                    )
N. W. F. P.                                           ,           oreol,                           /. . ,. . =                                               j
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
31-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
30~~~~~~~~~~~~0
3r ---r  SI               N DI 
MLYPR .,Ch.  ,h/| 
~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~ '
/ {J t 9 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1B. A--j2--
/ S ~ ~~~    ~~~ ./                                                                                        11.                               (               I AGHAISIN 
5,>/ )  1SRO 2                                                                     f _Ev - x !CT
0              7D                             7 1                             72                            73                                                             Q~~~~~~~~0 






IBRD 2773_
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB PRIVATE SECTOR GROUNDWATER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCARP 11 PROJECT AREA
FRESHR GRCWOWATER AREA          - RIERS                            BARRAGES
C~ANAS PRORSED                   CANALS aRAINHES                   SELECTED TOWNS
FOR  P2POSYEDMNT                DISTRIRUTARIES & INC)R CANALS  -   MAIN RCODS
Q    FIELD OFFICES                     SURFACE DRAINS             -      RAILROADS
UNK CANALS
- ---- PROJECT BOUNDARIES
Trimmu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       ~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - - -''    -     -  _, -  - - -  _-
Mogg0o             .
Qd-bM~
6kJ
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZER
N/I









IMAGING
Report No:      15207 PAK
Type: SAR



