jQ gF~  ASSOCIATED CONSULTING
ENGINEERS - ACE (PVr) LTD
i -C12. M M ALAM ROAD. GULBERG 111. LAHORE. PAKISTAN - 54660
Regional OWfice (No-lt)  Phone: 877081 - 83 Fax: 92-42-57i0970 Telex: 44304 PACEL PK
FAX MESSAGE        i
TO: /J-  Dlii)  &kW/'4Li[    6972ZZ 7it4   RECIPIENTS' FAX:2SL  J±J2233I:
TOTAL PAGES:S
FROM: A'nA A -         V,                     DATE.          4
Attn:     DAUD KHAN'
FAO, ROME.
Subject:  PROJECT PREPARATION OF PRIVATIZATION OF GROUNDWATER
IN SCARP AMU2S OF PUNJAB - SUPPLEIENTARY NOTE ON
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONCERNS OF THE PROJECT.
Dear Mr. Daud Khan,
We have despatched a supplementary note on environmental and social
concerns of the Project through Diplomatic pouch of FAO, Islamabad
with a copy to Mr. Masood Ahmad. In view that the courier will take
some -time, we are transmitting you through Fax the Project Impact
Matrix and concluding pages of the note. We trust that the same
will meet your requirement.
Thankirg you an   th best regards,
ANIS A. CHAUDRY
Team LeAder TSTP
cc:  Mr. Masood Ahmad, SA3AG X2013,       Fax: 202-522--1871
General Manager Water (Planning), WAPDA, Lahore



S'UFPLEMENTARY NOTE ON
ENV I RONMENTAL AND SOC I AL CONS I DERAT IONS
OF
PRIVATIZATTON OF CGROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
IN SCARP AREAS OF PUTNJAB
1.0        BACKGROUND
Agriculture is the main economic base of Pakistan. Arid to semi-
arid climate of the country! however. necessitates irrication for
s-ustained agricultural production. Even zhoiugh irrigation has been
practiced in the Indus plain since times immemorial, the latge
scale weir controlled irrigation was first introduced during the
middle of nineteenth century. Present.ly, aoot'  105 MAF of river
flow is diverted annually to irrigate aLsa.t 34.5 M a of land.
Such extensive use of irrigation water has significantly altered
the geo-hydrological balance of the Indus basin, i:hich resiuited in
the development of waterlogging and so-l salinity over large tract
of land. The problem drew attention of the plinners from early this
century and a number of remedial measures for amelioration of twin
m2naces  of  waterlogging  and  salinity  were  tried.   But   a
comprehensive multi-decade large scale vertical drainage programme
called SCARP (Salinity Control and Reclamation Programme) was
started in early 1960's. Since then, about 13,500 SCAR? tubewells
(STWs) have been installed under this programme. These include
about 11,000 STWs in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas and 2,500 in
areas with zaline groundwater (SGW). In Punjab, there are about
8,000 FGW and 1,800 SGW tubewells,
Besides the drainage objective, SCARPs were planned to supplement
irrigation supplies for increase of crop production. Initially the
programme helped in achieving both these objectives. But with the
passace of time STWs started deteriorating and caused reduction in
supplemental  supplies.  In  the  meanwhile,  however,  tubewell
installation in private sector progressed rapidly with the result
that presently there are about 300,000 private tubewells (PTWs) in
Pakistan   contributing to pumpage of over 38 MAF annually.  Of
these, more than 250,000 PTWs fall in Punjab. The private wells are
developed exclusively where fresh or marginal irrication water can
be obtained from the shallow aquifer.
Early deterioration of STWs also resulted in a stress on the
Government budget due to increased 0 6 M and replacement costs so
much so that presently about 55% of the departmental budgetary
allocation is spent on the maintenance of STWs.
Increasing O&H cost and uneven performance of the SCARP tubewells
coupled with growing constraint on the public sector investment and
1



the welcome growth of private tubewells have led to 'he review of
the Government policy with reaard to groundwater development. This
includes  transfer  of  responsibility  for  future  groundwater
development in FGW areas to the private sector, and replacement of
existing STWs by PTWs of smaller  capacit'ies (in general  terms
called SCARP Transition),. However! in SGW areas the tubewells will
continue to be installed, operated and maintained in the public
sector.
As a follow up of the revised policv, a pilot project namely, SCARP
Transition Pilot Proiect. (STPP), was implemented from 1988 to 1992
in Khanqah Dogran Unit of SCARF-I. Encouraged frcm the farmer's
response on privatisation of groundwater manaaement in the pilot
project areas, the Government started implementing the concept with
little modification in the remainina areas of SCARP-I under Second
SCARP Transition (SST) Project. Its implementation was started ini
1992 and accordina to schTedule it was expected to be completed by
1996.
The present study on Privatisation of G.roundwater Development in
SCARP Areas of Puniab (previously known as Third SCARP Transition
Project), involves preparation of a project for remaining areas of
Puniab  in the  light  oE experiences  of the previous  projects.
Therefore, the project- has been prepared accordingly to make the
project more viable. Besides, in depth consideration was also given
to environmental and social aspects of project areas.
While the technical and economic issues of the project were
discussed in the Project Preparation Report, the environmental and
social aspects are deall: with in this Supplementary Note.
2.0        EXISTING ENVIFtONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SETTING OF THE PROJECT
AREA
2.1        General
The Project Preparation Report (Chapter - 3 and Appendix - C)
provides a detailed narration of the exiting conditions of the
project areas with respect to land, water and economic resources.
A brief introduction to the project area and a commentary on the
environmentally and socially concerned issues is provided in the
subsequent sections.
2.2        Introduction to the Project Area
The Proiect  includes  eight SCARP  areas  spread over the whole
Province of Punjab and encompasses three agro-climatic zones, viz.,
sugarcane - wheat, rice - wheat and cotton - wheat. It comprises
2



about 6.. million acres (M a) of gross area fallina in fourteen
districts. of the total area about 5.4 M a are served by surface
supplies  from, 13  canal.  systems.  On  the basis  of  arouindwater
qualityv  the Project are is sub-divided into 8 fresh groundwater
(FGW) zones and 8 saline groundwater ('GW) zones. Of these 5 SGW
zones are contiguous with FGW zones (viz.. SCARP II, III, V; Satiana
Pilot Project, VI and VIII), While 3 are isolated and are operated
on pilot basis (viz., SCARP vII and 2 pilot project areas of SCARP
V).
The annual surface supp]Lies at' watercourse head of the FGW zones
average out to about 5.6 million acre feet (MAF). These supplies
are supplemented bv groundwater pumped through about 6200 STWs and
about 58,000 PTWs. The existina annual average pumpage from public
tubewells (STWs) comes to about 3.8 MAF and that foom PTWs about
4.1 MAF. As such the water supply contribution from various sources
ranges in order of 42% from canals, about 28% from STWs and 30%
from PTWs. On Project area to area basis, the contribution of canal
supplies ranges from 33% to 69%, that of STWs 5% - 42% and PTWS 17%
- 39% (for reference see Tables 4.1 through 4.8 of Project
Preparation Report, Vol. T). The survey data has indicated that the
PTW supplies are invariably contributing towards meeting the peak
water demand of crops. The achieved cropping intensities with these
water supplies are in the range of 120% to 145%.
Besides, there are 1488 STWs installed in 5 contiguous Sc;W areas
and 189 STWs in 3 isolated SGW zone for drainaae purpose. Of these,
1514  tubewells  are pumping  about  1.2 MAF  of  saline  effluent
annually  (the pumpage  of 163 STWs was not available  as being
recently installed). A part of this effluent is used for irrigation
purposes after mixing with surface supplies at watercourses or at
d istributaries, while the major por'ion is disposed out of the
Proiect area.
2.3        Environmentally and Socially Concerned Issuxes
2.3.1      Land Resource
For environmental consideration, the land resource can be analysed
in many ways. However, for the purpose of this report, the analysis
is  limited  to  those  aspects  which  are  affecting  t.he  land
utilisation for crop production. Broadly, there are five physical
parameters of land which influence the crop production. These
include morphological features of the land, textural and structural
characteristics of soils, chemical fertility, water table condition
and level of salinity/sodicity. Of these, the first three are
inherited while the latter two are generally environmentally
induced.  Besides  these  natural  environmental  aspects  of  land
resource, the crop production is also subject to agricultural
3



practices which are directly under the control of farmers. In the
subsequent paragraphs, these aspects have been critically aralysed
for ameliorating the constraints and enhancing the benefi'-s.
Table C-1.3 of Appendix C (Proiect Preparation Peport) pr: vides
distribution  of  land  area  of  the  Project  with  respect  Io
morpholocical features. Accordingly, of the cross area of the
Project, the majority of the lands (51t) constitute Meander Flood
Plains which are generally level to nearly level with little
constraints due to old river scars. The next major category of land
form is Scalloped Interfluve (21%). These lands form the elevated
center  of  doabs  and  are  level  to  nearly  level  with  little
constraints due tn surface defor-mation. Similarly, about 14% of the
land is cons'ituted of Cover and Abandoned Flood Plains which have
the formation similar to Scalloped Interfluve but lie at low
grounds. It is 14% of the area which is problematic due to various
defor-mations or exposure to natural calamities such as floodinc
(Active Flood Plains) and wind erosion (Sand Bars). At the advent
of irrigation system, the problermatic areas were generally excluded
from 'he commani. Therefore: presently cultivated area has little
constraints due to morphological features.
About 65% of the soils of the project area are medium to moderatelv
coarse textured which have adaptability for a large range of crops.
About 14% of the area is moderately fine textured which impose a
little restriction for the selection of crops. However, they are
best. suitable for crops like rice, sugarcane, vegetables and
fodder. Its only 17% of the area which has problematic soils due to
very loose or very heavv texture. Such areas can be utilised for
selective r.;opping. In the light of this, it can be inferred that
generally the local farmers face little constraints due to soil
characteristics. If any, the farmers have mastered the soil related
problems through their experiences. However, an effective extension
service, which is lacking in Pakistan, is required to fully exploit
the potential of the soils. In this regard, an applied research is
needed in consideration cf crop-water-soil relationship to resolve
the agriculture managemenit problems.
The soils of the project area are immuiature and azonal type where
the release  of soil  nutrients  is generally  slow to meet  the
requirement of exotic crop varieties. However, the fertility aspect
of the soils can be covered through aDplication of manures and
fertilizers. In spite of the fact that the use of fertilizer is
common among the farmers, the application doses are too low to
fully exploit the soil potential. This is related with the higah
price of the fertilizers and sometimes their non-availability. The
shortage of water input is also a determining factor for low
fertilizer use.
4



±nsignificant  effec'. on  the soil  when  its usage was properly
managed. On the other hand, good quality waters have deteriorated
the  soils  because  oil poor  management.  (For  reference  see
Feasibility Report of SSTP).
2.3 2      Water Resources
General
The source of water and the quantum available for the projec'. area
has been fully described in Project Preparation Peport with brief
narra'ion in section 2.2. The report also provides commentary on
the problemus associated with the water resources. However, a
cri'.ical analvsis of tJhe same has been provided in t.he subsequent.
sections  to  depict environmental  and  social  concerns  of  the
situation.
Issues Related with Surface Water Supplies
The surface water supply issues are mostly management oriented both
at command and on-farm water levels. With t'he result of which the
general farmers are invlariabiy receiving supplies short of what.
otherwise would have been. Besides the general shortfall in the
supplies, the present status of the system. has resulted in an
inequitable distribution of water among the farmers ot different'
reaches of the irrigation channels. An analysis of the situation i.>
presented in the following paragraphs.
In spite of the fact that a large volume of river water is diverted
for irrigation, the country is acute short of surface supplies to
fully utilise its land resource. Prior to groundwater development
wi'th modern technologies, the surface supplies were meeting the
crop water requirement.s of the commanded area with annual land
ut-ilisation  of  75-805b.  However,  the  farmers  enhanced  their
intensities to ovrer 100% by increasing cropped area through
practicing under watering of the crops. The implementation of
SCAFPs has greatly helped in irmproving land and water conditions.
The results of this improvement were reflected in the increased
crop intensities and yields. However, the need of the time was
further  improvement in the agricul'ture production.  Bu. on the
contrary, early deterioration of STWs impacted the development.
The post-operational set back in the operation of STWs was by and
large covered throuoh installation of PTWs. However, in spite of
all efforts from various quarters the pace of improvement in crop
production  has  been  very  low  since  lona.  This  is  .mainly
attributable to the slackness in the management of agriculture
production resources, particularly water.
6



It is an established fact that the crops can flourish we'll in a
soil condition where the groundwater level is below the root zone.
Generally, a depth to water table beyond 5 Ft. is considered safe
for crop production. H.owever, in consideration of arid to semi-arid
cli,matic condition of the Proiect area and seasonal 'luctuation in
the water table, a level. of beyond. 7 Ft. is considered sate for
crop production and for avoiding any risk of salinity development
in  the  soils  due  to  combine  effect.  of  capil'Lary  rise  and
evapotranspiration. As illustrated in table C-4.3 of Appendix C
(Project  preparation  Report),  the  disaster  areas  (0-5  Ft.)
generally constitute less than 5% o' FGC zones of various SCARPs
with 'he exception of SCr.RP Shahpur rnd SCARP FVT (llahabacl Pilo".
Proiect), where it is about 10%, an,' SCARP III where such area ,s
about 27%. In the light of this; i't can be concludeti that excep'.
for SCAR.P III area, the problem of waterlogging in FG4 zones is not
that  severe  that  would  need  a  separat.e  projec'.  A  better
groundwater imanage.ment wo,&ld resolve the issue even 'or SCARP ITT
area.  This  aspect has  been  covered in  detail  in  'he Project
Preparation Report and briefly described in relevant section below.
While the SGW zones  of SCARPs  II. V, VI and VII do not pose
significant constraints due to water table condition, that of
SCARPs III and VIrI have critical condition. About 84% of SGW area
of SCAR.P III falls in disaster water table condition. In SCAFF VIII
it is about 70%. The Project has proposed works for SGW area of
SCARP III and suggested further study for SCARP VIII on the ground
that the presently  avaiLlable information  are insufficient  for
project planning.
Appendix C of Project Preparation Report discusses the salinitly and
sodicity status of the proJect areas. On total area basis of the
Project, about 77% of the soils are free from surface salinity,
while about 12% are slightly saline. Excludina miscellaneous areaS
about 9% soils are moderately to highly saline. On project area to
area basis, the latter type of the soils, generally range from ' t.o
14% with the exception of Shorkot Kamalia Pilot Project where it is
33%. In spite of the fact that surface salinity is generally lo;..
the problem of salinity / sodicity in "he soil profile is more
frequent in various SCARPs. However, the intensity of the proble.'
is not such that can not be handled with improved wa'ter use
management in the presence or absence of some amendment rraterial
such as gypsum.
It has generally been rieferred that the usage of groundwater is
deteriorating the soil conditions particularly due to development
of salinity. SCARP Monitoring Organisation (SMO) has carried out a
study in SCARP I area for evaluating the effect of tubewell waters
of different qualities on the soils. The study has shown that the
impacts are more subjected to the soil-water maragaement than to the
water quality. Even the tubewell water of poor quali'ty has left



dtifferent reaches o" watercourse. hIt also increase the loss
of valutable water through breach;  leakage and percola'-.)n.
Malpractice of influential far-mers in the tuse of water is ilso
creating inequity.
indifferent atti'ude towards the main'enance of watererourses
is attributable to mnany factors. These are as follows:
-    The present law does not c'earl:Y spell o::  the uater
riahts  o'  the  water  users.  The  lecai  standinc  of
wara ban di . water-t.urn)  svst.em si,nply aczo ;'unts f' or the
time allocation of the turn of an indIvidual far,mer and
not th-e ouantlum of water lhe recei,ves.
-    The existing law for  llecal use of water by influentia
f'armers  is  not  beina  truthfully  observed. Ordinary
farm.ers are generally helpless acainst such .malpractice
because of many reasons. These -include lack of education
and power, and ti;me constraint for pursuinc com-plicated
legal proceedings.
-    The system is lacking implementation of the existing law
regarding the mnaintenance of watercourses by the farmers.
-.   The farming acciety is lacking coiiesive force for joint
actions in the farmin' actirities includina watercourse
mproveimen.t. Even legislation for 'he format-on o. Water
Users Associations (WtTAs) and efforts for aavatino the:hm
on sustainable grounds have not been as effective as
envisaaed under the plan. This is mainly hecaioipe. that thn
WL"s were created for a single goal, viz.. improvem.ent o'
watercourse  wlth  the  financial  assist.ance  from.  thfe
Government. Once the objective is achievetd the WCAs ',iave
no physical target to keep them. active.
4.   A grea' deal o' water losses are observed at fied level due
to poor water application practices. Basin Irrigation is the
general method in vogue in Pakistan for watering the fields.
Under this method. a desirable water application efficiency
can be achieved if the farm lands are preciselv levelled.
During 1970's, precision land levelling was under taken  - ih
a project and demonstrative approach in various areas of the
prorince. But the concept did not take off as desired because
of financial constraints of the local farmers at that time.
Despite that the financial condition of the farm.ers has now
somewhat  improved  due  to  price  support  policy'  of  'he
covern...ent.  the  trend  of  acricultural  practices  has  not
chAnged much.



The water  arianacement problems have been observed both at com-m.and
and on-farm water levels of operation.  Those concerning to the
operation of STWs will be discussed later. ones associated with the
W-ater convelance svstem are highlighted here. These are as follow:
1.   It has aenerally been observed that the channeis of prim-ary
and  secondarv  level  and  d.iversion  structures  are  no'
.aintained as are supposed.to be. The deferree .maintenance  s
resulting in excessive water losses; with the conseauence t.hA!
the  far-mers  are  aenerally  cett`ina  less  supplies  th An
Aut'horised. Reportedi:,,  this issue is related with the non-
a,vailabilit-y of sufficient  funds under Annual  Developmen.
Programme (ADP). Moreover, of the total budgetary allocation
of I&P Depart,ment.  the mmaior chu.nk is consumed tup for the
operation and maintenance of STWs. particularly for nmeeuting
the electricitY bills.
2.   Since 7985, the O&M expenditures o' isP Department have been
exceeding  over  and  above  the  revenue  collected  fromi  the
farmers  under  the  head of  water  cnarges.  Due to  various
reasons the water charaes could not be increased to cope with
the  expenditures.  This  has  led  'o the  slackness  in  the
maintenance of the irrigation system.
Various political; social and economic reasons have been
reported to be encountering in the way of enhancement of water
charging rates. It is always pleaded that the farmers are not
in a position to bear the increase in water rates, This is
cont.rary to the factual position. In the meanwhile, the price
of other agricultural inputs has gone up many fold and the
farmers are paying for that. This is because the inputs other
than water are invariably controlled by private sector where
'he polit'ical and soqial pressutre is least accepted. On the
other hands the mianagement of water beina in the public
sector,  the pressure from various quar'ers is hurdling the
induction of open .arket pricina trend in this sector.
The plea that the farmers would not accept anv increase in the
water rate is also negated because the farmers of barrani
area: where besides rainfall the source of water is t'Zubeweil,
are meeting the escalated cost of water input. Simmilarly, the
farmers of irrigated areas are bearing the increasing cost o.
water from. PTWs.
3.   Under law the canal wa'er users are jointly responsible for
the repair and mai.ntenance of main trunk of the watercourse
for equitable distribution of surface and STW supplies. But
the  field  observations  have  shown  that  .malorit7  of  the
wa'ercourses are in a state of mess. This is not onlv causing
inequity in the distribution of water among the far.mers of
7



Presently the Directorate of On Farm Water Management is
extending service t:o the farmers for precision land levellinc
on subsidised basis. This includes technical assistance and
hiring facility of machinery. But even still the concept has
not surged into the society of general farmers. This is
probably related to the slackness in the extension service and
management problem.s. These are needed to be improved.
Issues Related with Groundwater Management
In spite of the existence of a large number of STWs in the Project
areas, their performance has historically been low, with the
exception of initial few years, to make substantial contribution in
achieving the objectives of SCARPs. As against designed annual
pumpage of about 6.3 MAF by STWs in FGW areas the pumpage has
reduced to existing level of about 3.8 MAF. This is due to the
deferred maintenance on part of the department. It has been
observed from the field survey that whatever the pumpage from STWs
in FGW areas is obtained is generally through the effort of water
users. The tubewells are! invariably operated and maintained by the
farmers for meeting their requirements.
On the other hand the drainage tubewells in saline zones being not
benefiting the farmers directly through contributing to the crop
water requirement, the operational and maintenance condition of
these STWs is rather worst.
Besides the deferred maintenance of STWs on part of I&P Department,
the low performance is also attributable to the frequent breakdown
in the power supply. For the last few decades, the country is
facing shortage in the power supply, the effect of which is more
pronounced in rural than urban areas. The power shortage is
particularly encountered during rabi (winter cropping) and early
kharif (summer cropping) seasons, during which the power break down
is extended for a period more than eight hours in a day.
On the other hand, substantial growth of PTWs in FGW areas has
greatly eased the farmers in meeting their crop water requIrements.
PTWs are also playing a secondary role of groundwater drainage. The
survey has indicated that of the total PTWs in the project areas,
onlv 6% are electric driven while the rest are diesel engine (72%)
or tractor (22%) operated. This trend is obviously related with the
uncertainty in electric power supply.
Such situation has resulted in a number of environmental and social
issues. These are as foLlows:
1.   Operation of STWs in FGW areas at the will of local farmers
and development of a large number of PTWs has caused an
9



uncontrolled management of the groundwater. As a consequence,
the groundwater dischartFe is invariably superseding the
recharge  from  surface  flows  except  for  SCARP-I1I  area.
Therefore, in FGW areas of all SCARPs 'except for SCP.RP-II)
the groundwater level is declining by 1.5 cms to 7.5 cms per
annum on area basis. On the ground that the PTW developrent is
pacing at a rate of about 6% per annum, there is a fear that
with time the groundwater depletion may set in.
2.   On tne other hand, the g.oundwater situation in SCARP-III area
is reverse. Here the soils are deteriorating due to continuous
rising trend )f groundwater levels by 5 cms per annum. This is
related with the high recharge of the crour.>. -ater from surface
supplies than discharge through STWs and PTWs. Historically,
the carnal supplies have been in excess to what are authorised
for the Project area under non-perennial condition. The
.drainage  relief,   on  the  other. hand,  was  designed  in
consideration of authorised supplies.
3.   The Indus Plains, of wlich the Puniab Plains are part, have
been developed through deposition of sediments by ancestral
and present rivers in an abyssal sea of late Fleistocene
Period, with the consequenze that "he aquifer is characterised
by high salinity of inherent nature. Percolation process of
the rivers through geological times has greatly improved the
groundwater quality in the peripheral regions of doabs (land
between two rivers). However, the central regions remained
least influenced from this process, with the result that these
regions are saline in groundwater, while the peripheries are
fresh.
Before the advent of cx-ensive irrigation system, the saline
aquifer was well c:ontainad in centval pockets. The equilibrium
between FGW and SGWR was rirst disturbed by the introduction of
present day irrigation. The situation aggravated with the
introduction of groundwater pumpage through STWs and PTWS.
In SCARP area where the FGW and SGW zones are adJoining,
saline water intrusions into FGW areas have been observed.
These are attributable to the differential aroundwater
pressure in the two zones and to the direction of natural
slope of the aquifer in a doab.
The rapid growth of PTWs and relatively better management of
*                  STWs in FGW areas  than those in adjoining SGW areas has
resulted in a pumpage differences in these two zones and a
consequent differential groundwater pressure. The analysis of
the situation concerning to various SCARP areas shows
(Chapter- 4 and Appendix- C of the ProJect Preparation Peport)
that the condition of saline intrusions is critical in SCARPs
10



-I, III and VI (AlIahabad Unit). While tne condition of FCRR?-
VI is expected to improve progressively due tc extension cf
Tarakari drain and provision of 123 drainage tlAbewelis, the
issues related with SCARPs  '.  anl III  are needed  to be
addressed.
4.   As refer:ed earlier (and in Annex-4 of Project Concept Paper',
the majority of the farmers (about 93%) who rere interviewed
during field survey has reported that in the absence of TW
operators and slackness on part of I & P Departrent for the
repair and maintenance of STWs, the farners iitormally pool
their resources  for operation and maintenance of STWs. The
repair, as such, does not include the major works such as bore
damage. In spite of initiation of STh replacement works sirce
late 1983's, abouLt 17% of STWs are lying dead and about 67%
are running with performance less than 50%. These situations
have led to the following:
-    The farming communities are invariably frust-ated due to
deferred ma ntenance of STWs and for bearina the cost of
their operation and maintenance.
-    The reduct...on  in public  water  supply  has caused  an
increase in sprivate sector investment for instal lation of
PTWs.
-    Such investment in private sector is invariably not fully
justified economically as the annual utilisation PTWs
ranges from 9 to 14% in various SCARPs.
-    Due to reduced discharce of a large number of STWs, the
tubewells are being heavily taxee by the farmers to meet
their water requirements, thus over burdenina the
Government exchequer in the form of electricity billing.
-    The situation is causina uncontroiled management of the
groundwater, which is resulting in the depletion of
aquifer in FGW areas and saline water intrusions.
5.   The groundwater i: a communal property. But the present set up
has been creating a disparity in the distribution of
groundwater among the farmers. in spite cf the fact that water
trade of privately pumped water has been reported to be
existing in the Project areas (Table C-3-16 of Project
Preparation Report), the system is lacking equity in true
sense. Even the issue of equitable~ distribution of groundwater
was not fully aiddressed in the previous and currently
implemented SCAPP transition programmes (TSTP and SSTP). Under
these projects the replacement tubewells (PTWs) were given to
11



the individual farmaers with preference to those havirng small
land holdings in view that such arrangement will encourage
water trading thus improving the equity.
2.4       CONCLUSION
From the above discussions it can be concluded that environmentally
concerned issues are related with the groundwater. In certain areas
this source is being over exploited, with the result that the
groundwater level is fallina. This situation may lead to the
depletion of a valuable source of ensured demand based  water
supply. Saline water intrusion is another negative impact of over
exploitation of groundwater in FGW areas. On the other han',
excessive surface supplies in the absence of adequate drainage
relief has led to waterlogging in SCARP III area.
The analysis of the situation indicates that such environmental
degradation is more associated with management of the resources
than otherwise. The drawback is not only that the resources are not
properly managed physically, the existing set up is lacking active
participation of water users in the process of proiect planning,
its implementation and operation. As such the farmers have little
freedom for choice and -are subject to bureaucratic limitations.
This approach may lead to wrong planning and insurgence of
malpractice. The need of the time is the development of a programme
wherein the participation of the water users is ensured in the
planning and management of water resources.
3.0       OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT UNDER DISCUSSION
The study on Privatisation of Groundwater Development in SCAR.P
Areas of Punjab is aimed at transferring the responsibilities of
development and management of groundwater in the ?GW areas   from
public to private sector in an environmentally and economically
viable manner. The study is envisaged to meet the following
objectives:
1.   Increasing agriculture production in the project areas through
improved control anci management of water resources, especially
the groundviter by farmers.
2.   Peducing  financial  liability  of  the  government  for  the
operation and mainltenance of SCARP tubewells (STWs) in FGW
areas by transferriing their manaaement to the private sector.
3.   Providing   appropriate   safeguards   to   the   environment
particularly  related  with  the  groundwater.  This  implies
maintaining groundwater levels at safe limits by introducing
12



a check on the existing declining or rising trends of
groundwater in various areas.
4.   Meeting drainage requirements of the saline groundwater (Sc1W1
areas to eliminate saline water intrusions into the contiauous
FGW zones.
5.   Formulating   institutional   arrangements   for   efficient
implementation and sustained operation of the Projects with
emphasis on improving the capabilitv of private sector/farming
communities for management of groundwater.
4.0       PROJECT FEATURES
4.1       General
In consideration of the above referred objectives a study has been
carried out to design a project for transferring the responsibility
of  groundwater  development  to  the  private  sector  in  an
environ-mentally and socia2lly acceptable manner. As such the Project
offers three packages for the assistance of farming community,
viz., physical, social and institutional, and economic and
technical. The main components of these packages are as described
in subsequent sections.
4.2       Physical Package
4.2.1     Fresh Groundwater Areas
The physical package for fresh groundwater areas include provision
of com;nunity tubewells t(CTWs) to the Farmers' Organisations (Fos)
instead of individual farmers, and improvement of watercourses.
This proposition has been made for equitable distribution of
groundwater  to  the water  users and  increasing  the  irrigation
efficiency. To draw maximum benefit from the presently available
facility, the project also envisages transfer of maximum number of
efficiently operating STWs and conversion of existing bores into
centrifugal facilities.
To encourage water trading from PTWs presently existing in the
comm.and of watercourses and to utilise the water of CTWs on crop
demand basis, a provision has also been made in the Project for
portable hose pipes.
To ensure uninterrupted surface supplies during the implementation,
the Project has envisaged rehabilitation works for diversion /
regulatory structures at the head of the distributaries and minors.
13



As such the Proiect will includez
1.   Community Tubewell Development
-    Transfe--r cases                      798 #
-    Conversion cases                    3, 008 
-    New caser                           5,562 
2.   Watercourse Improvement
In consideration of large scale OFWM activities presently
undertaken  by  the Directorate  of OFWM.  only  25% of  the
watercourses has been considered for improvement under the
Proiect which accounts to 1,746 (1,646 with lining up to 15%
of the length and 1.CC in saline pockets with 30% lining).
3.   Hose Pipes           -
The Project has kep' a provision of a hose pipe of 5GC meter
for FOs opting for such facility.
4.2.2     Saline Groundiiater Areas
As discussed in Section 2.3.2 (with detai'ls in Project Preparation
Repozt and Supplementa;ry Note on Drainage Appraisal of Saline
Zones), two Project are-as (SCAPP II & III) need special attention
for the improvement of drainage conditions to control the saline
water intrusions. Depending upon the existinc water table
conditions in the two Project areas and rising (SCARP IlIl) or
falling (SCARP II) trend of groundwater, two different approaches
have been adopted for these Project areas. These are as follow:
a.   Intercepting the saline water flows at the interface between
SGW and FGW zones in SCARP II by lining selected channels at
the interface and provision of limited number of drainage
tubewells located along the existing drains where gaps have
been identified.
b.   Improving the overall drainage condition of the saline zone of
SCARP III by providing draLnage tubewells along newly proposed
surface drains as a replacement to inefficiently working
existing STWs pumping saline water in canal system. To keep
the cost of tubewell installation and operation to a possible
minimum  level, the Project  has  also  provided lining  of
irrigation channels and watercourses within the saline zone
and at the periphery.
14



As such the works will include:
1.   Drainage Tubewells of 2 cusecs capacit:'
-    SCARP II                              35 #
-    SCARP III                             75 4
'.   Transmission Network for Electrification of Drainaae Tubewells
-    SCARP II                              115 Km
-    SCAP.P II                            245 Kx
3.   Lining of Irrigation Channels
-    SCARP II                              235 K,-,
*  -    SCARP III                          137 Km
4.   Lining of Watercourses
-    SCARP III                             392 #
5.   Surface Drains for SCAP.P III
-    Rehabilitation of
existing drains (4)                   79 Km
-    New Drains                             58 Km
4.3       Social and Institutional Package
The peculiar feature oi the Project is that its development has
been planned on participatory approach. The proposed participatory
development model for the Project has been based on the experience
gained from the -ngoing participatory schemes in Pakistan.
The social and institutional packace is aimed at organizing tarmers
into effective Farmers'  Organisations  (FOs).  The Proiect  wIll
strengthen these participatory institutional structures in such a
manner that the member farmers are the decision m-akers for
identifying their development needs and mobilizing' resources to
undertake the developmrent schemes. A capability will also be
developed to take over the responsibility for operation and
maintenance of schemes.
The major task under the Project is, therefore, the means and ways
through which FOs are formulated with long term subsistence. In the
light of experience from the failure of WUAs in being active on
sustainable grounds, a different approach has been proposed for the
development of FOs. This will involve mobilization of farming
co-rmmunities on voluntary basis with a binding force provided
15



throughl self cenerated resources in addition to financial and
institutional support from the Project.
The institutional support. will include the services to be provjided
either through qualified Social Organizers (SOs) engaged for the
purpose or mobilizing local NGOs existing within the SCARP areas
with proven track record. These grass root level social mobilizers
will be organised through Participatory Development Consultants or
national based NGOs. Moreover, the provincial department's like I&P
Department, Directorate of OFWM and Social Welfare Board may also
be entrusted with the responsibility of FOs development.
Very recently a responses has been received from. Social Welfare
Board regarding the involvement of local NGOs in the programme.
4          After consultation with local NGOs in various districts of Puniab.
it has been indicated thallaa lot number of such NGOs are read'v to
provide the services.
On the basis of these recommendations pilot schemes have been
initiated in SSTP area by involving various orcanisations referred
above to test the suitable model for fu'ure development.
4.4        Econo-mic and Technical Package
The economic and incentive package comprises financial assis.ance
to be provided under the Project to the FOs to supplerent their own
resources for implementina the works to be operated and maitllained
under their own management. In order to become eligible for Project
assistance, 'he FOs would contribute cash or labour consistent with
their resources to meet a part of the cost of the scheme, whereas
the remainina cost. would be provided bv the Project.. The Project's
contribution may be given partly as a grant and partly as a loan to
be recovered through aareed installments. The grant will include
subsidy for CTWs and a seed money for formulation of. FOs, while 70%
share of material cost ftor watercourse improvement and cost of hose
pipe will be a loan to be recovered in three years installments in
real terms.
The technical or production package will include services for
installing CTWs and improvement of watercourses throuah combined
effort  of Management Co.nsultants and Participatory Development
Consultants or other orcanisation so selected tor the purpose. The
services will also inclucle a training proaramme for SOs and FOs.
Moreover, this would develop new, appropriate technologies aimed at
more efficient water use for increased agricultural production and
measures to protect the land against environmental degradation.
16



5.0        ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND RISKS Or THE PROJECT
It is obvious from  the discussions made above  that  t1le prime
obiective of the Project is to create an environ-mental condition
which is conducive to better aariculiture production.. Basicallv the
Project  does  not  propose  ...ajor  change   in  the   existinc
infrastructure or fur'her exploitation of natural resources which
may result in  necative im,pacts  on  land, water and  biolocical
environment. Except for  little  chances -n  the  development  of
physical  infrastructure  concerning  to  relocation  of tubewell '.
linina of channels, realignment and improvement of watercourses and
construction of a few new drains, the Project -mainlY lays emphas4s
on balanced use of the natural resources through better management.
As such, it is expected that 'the Project will enhance the benef-its
rather than havina nega'ive impacts. However,  for the purpose of
this  report  a  thorough- analysis  of  the  Project  .,mpacts  on
environmental  and social settina has been carried out. This is
shown in the attached table in the form, of Project lnmpact Matrix.
A summary of the major and significant impacts is given below:
Effects of the Project :Implementation Phase
Closure of STWs during the implementation of the Project may
decrease the land utilisation for acriculture purposes due to
short supplv of irrigation water. To minimise this impact, it
is therefore  desirable  that  the delivery  of  the  surface
supplies is ensured through rehabilitating the diversion I
regu'atory structures of the canal system.
Closure of STWs will  also  have  a negative  impact  on the
employme ent  of  operation  and  maintenance  staff  of  ISP
Department. To minimise this effect, the Project has provided
a severance packaae for suclh employees which includes cash
payment  under  Golden  Handshake  Scheme  and  a  vocational
training progra.me.
Employment opportunities are likelv to increase during the
im.plementation of the Project. This will benefit the local
population and surplus staff spared from the closure of STWs.
In  spite  of  the  benefit  referred  above,  the  Project
implementation may have a localised impact of low to medium
degree on agriculture production due to land takinc. his 3.ay
be permnanent in the case of implementation of surface drains
and to so.me extent due to installation of tubewells. The majcr
works will involve temporary land taking for channel linina,
17



and realignment and improvement of watercourses. However, the
Impact of land acquisition will be insianificant when compared
with the total Project area.
An interaction of the FOs with the governnment aoencies durinc
the  implementation   of  the  Project,   particularly  the
watercourse   im,provement,   will   help   in   removinc   the
communication gap. Similarly, communal development of CTWs and
watercourses will enhance relationship of the me.mber farmers
of FOs.
The construction activities may be hazardous to public health
due to dust,  smoke and noise generated by the .machinery.
However, these effects may be reduced when good eng:ineering
practices are adopt.ed by the contractors.
The Project also envisages risk involvement in the task of
for-mulation of a larte number  of FOs (totallina to about
9,CCC) within a period of 5 years. 3ocial, economic and
political stresses have resulted in the polarisation of rural
community. Therefore, invariably indifferent attitude of local
'armers for cooperation has been experienced. This mnay make
the task rather difficult. However, it is also experienced in
the field that whenr the farmers are properly approached, they
show  their  willingness  for  joint  activities   in  the
agricultural and economic sectors. Therefore, an appropriate
institutional arrangement has been recommended in the Project
for meeting this obiective. Once FOs are formed on sustainable
grounds, it is hopea that it will eliminate the communication
gap between the individual farmers and enhance the cooperation
in various economic and social areas.
Effects of the Operation Phase of the Project
It -s foreseen that the operation of CTWs on community basis
will enhance the equitable distribution of groundwater among
the water users. This is expected to have beneficial effects
on the crop production.
A  change  in  the  attitude  of  farming  community  towards
cooperation will be an added benefit of the Project.
The overall improvement of water supply through CTWs, lining
of  channels  and  iLmprovement  of  watercourses  m.ay  induce
increase in cropping intensities through rehabilitation of new
lands. Sim..iar effect is expected through the improve3ment of
land drainage condit.ion particularly in SCARP III area.
18



Improvement in 'he public health is also expected due to land
drainage in SCARFP IIT area.
The Project has recommended a training  programme for FOs
throuh'- aovern.-ment and non-covern.mental agencies for opti.mum.
use  of  natural  resourses  for  agricultural prodution.  The
training will particulaly  be  ai.Med  at developing  a  self
regulator:  responsibili.t  in  t.he efarming  communi t:  foi:
groundwater exploitation. It is hoped that this wi" ass.st in
maintainina the aroundwater levels a' optimum safe. Pesides
such voluntary  reculation of croundwater developmend.., the
?roject also envisaces enforcemernn' oi law.
-  StJotwithstanding  the  benefits  listed  above..  the  Promec-t
operation mav induce  a negative  impact of air pollt 'iori
1through diesel operated tubewells. However, this poallutlon .s
not goinq 'o contribu-te much into  the total vol lut.ants what
the Project area  is recei;vina froM, the exist_nic  PTWs and
industrial units. As against about 50,C00  existing  diesel
operated PTWs, the Plroject has planned installation of about
9,CCC CTWs. If all CTWs are consideredi to be diesel operated,
the pollutants disperEed in the air are expecteed to be half to
that of presently generated by PTWs.  This assessment 'takes
into account the difference in the utilisation of PTWs and
that proposed for CTws. Moreover, the spread of such small
number of tubewells i,n 8 SCAR.P areas, of about 6 M4 a ( 9,000
sq  miles),  widell  located  in  whole  Punjab  will  have
insicnificant contributory effect on the air pollution.
6.0        ACTIONS REQUIRED
For efficient implementation and opera'tion  of the Pro,ect and
...akinc ,i environmentally and socially sound, some actions on
lecisla'ion are desired from the government. These are concerned to
defining the water rights of water users and reaulatory laws for
groundwater exploitation.
19



PRIVATISATION  OF GROUNDWATER DEVELOPLIENT IN SCARP AREAS OF PUNJAB
PROJECT IMPACT MATRIX
ENVIRONMIENTAL                  PlhVSICAL FJNVIKONMEN-r            B10I.OOICAl. E"IRO-I ENT                    SOCIAL ENVIK0jNMNS',
CS
=                           a~~~~~~~~~~ 
PROJECT                  ii                                                             it ztu6
CONIFONFN'TS                      --- -             -                       …                       -                                
tIf'LEMENTATION
losurt of STWi                   LA LA O M}B LB       |B|        | O0 0  0   0    O | MA     00   0| MA MMA  HA 0 |                      0   0  0  0
Foraustionrot F0i                 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0    0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0    0  No O | O            0 MA tnR RR HO 0  0 o |     0 1  0
CTW Developtmer                   LAO 0  0  0  0  0        0     LA    0 |   LA   0 QOOAO  | O | HD |IIH|H Hll  0                            0 0 |  O |
aCnm Liititg                     IMA MA LA  00  LAO | O  LA LA   0  O  MA 0 O|MA O  MA MA 0   MA MA MAOH  0B                     O | bKi LA  0     0 0  0 
ehaibiLiaion of Struetutel       O  LA LA O  LA LAO   O |LA LA    000   O | LA   0                        0  O | t   | LAO H B    0  0  0  0  0  0    0 
W4ourcorst eInrovenint           IMA tMA LA  0  LA LA                                               | 0LAL  0  O LA   |LA LA  LA 0   LA LA LA  | HB HR HfLA MA O   00 
nainale TubcwellL LA                     0    000                0    LA          | 0LAO 0  0  0  0 |   0 °   LA  0   OF|O 0  0  0  0                 0
ower Distribution NciwoLk        LA O   0  0  0  0  0     0   0  LA   0  0  LAO 0 O0   0  0 |O           0  LA  0 | ON|    0  0  0  LAO |        0  0
urr(t Drains                     MA MIA LA  0  0  0  00    A              |LA  0  b |    |A 0   |M  A MA 0   NIAMA |6 0 NtA |   IB NIA   0 °   LA  0  0  0  0
lrid8ce on Drains                 LA  0       0         00  LALA    00  LA  0  LA  0  LAOLA  0   LA LA                0  L0  000   LA  0000
HA: Hi1h Ad&ers                                                         Hti High Hcncr .i
NIA: Medium Ad'.erc                   0: Noeo or ins Iiianti             MR: Medium 9eacrtfi.i
LA: Low Advetsc                                                         LB: Low flem(i6al
Page I



40"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
PRIVATISATION OF GROUNDWVATER DEVELOPMENT IN SCARP AREAS OF PUNJAB-
PROJECT INIPACr  IATRIX
ENt RONMESNTAL                     PhYVSICAL ElNVIR0NI                    UIrLO:ICAI. ENVIRNONIEST                        S_)CLUI.   IR_ tlT
COftIPONENS                                                                                                                                              11
ICrW                                  RDB  O  | O IA| O |LAILAI O  LA LA| O |    LO 1        09  O m |B OLB LB| O           O i |NBHII|NtB NIB HH|H| RR MR  O |IA O4  | t0
||ihw Chami                          NI1B NB|O | O |b H|O  LA LA| O | O         LA| ° | °|NIB  O  NIWB LA| LA   Le |thi" U|H hi  MD        O | O  NiRt  O |   I. IR I   
cReXbiliu tmc,ltluctur               mH oE |    O    | 4 O | O | HB | O | O|O|O|O    O|O|O|O| Nin | ON|MB |  O |        O  L O| H| MR  KtH|o|n | o | r16   0 o   0  1-  0 |    0  
pewpovv Wa4ercourse                | B |Ntg 1 O  |      O    B     LA |LA | O  |  0    LA | O  | ifi O    kfIo| a  LA |LA     LB |f  110 |  n| IB 0 O | R | Ht  HD |    0  NI *) |   0     
oi¢nage Ttawall                      HD Nt 111  )1  MA |LllO LA M A Mf M0 |   0. |h NO| A1  HD |    HD |1.  t |ibw hi HAs|      t-3i |ll NI  II0) MR 1,B  C)  0      t>  sD  1-% |    I- |      )  
wetr Dimrtihion Ntl-orlk            |      O   |    0|    LA | O  |  O  | O | O | O | O                   O |0)|t                               It  -l  l|(   )|t   )|(    )|(   ()  1.11 | }|  
pufrs Dt;^iAi                         HD  HD |f  0s  i|iF  1.^; LA LB LA^ |  O;    Ln | MA |f  Lhl8 NIftB0 1I.B | tH NI  N.  ItB  LA1^  Niin  Kt  81 |O|11| (} |  0) |    ( |) |    t)|X   
L                                                    _                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
E                          S~~~                                                                      ~~~~~~~ -  -   --   II 
HA: High Adverse                                                                Ull- High Refic.i6al
IW    -I                                *gll    4-dun ecrc
N A: I.dia., Adycria                      O: None of imillnirkant               hH   itu tntcF
LA: Low Advetse                                                                 1011 I-ow lnewrc>Ia
Pag* 2



w ;~~~~~~~~-I
Wor~ 4 Bank



