Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2901 PAK
                       Development Credit Agreement
           (Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project)
                                 between
                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 19, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2901 PAK
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1996, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Province of Punjab
(Punjab) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Punjab the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and Punjab;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as
follows:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Farmers Organizations" means the organizations which farmers
formally establish for the purpose of operating and managing irrigation
and drainage systems, such as community tubewells, watercourses, canals
and surface and subsurface drains.
     (b)  "NGO" means a non-governmental organization established and
operating in the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit in the Planning &
Development Board of the Government of Punjab;
     (d)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Associa-
tion and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Project Area" means the area located in the central and
southern parts of Punjab Province and within the Gujranwala, Sargodha,
Faisalabad, Multan and Lahore administrative divisions;
     (f)  "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (g)  "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (h)  "SCARP" means the Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects
established by the Borrower and Punjab for controlling waterlogging
and salinity in Punjab; and
     (i)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 38,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
Page  3
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,  open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Chairman, Planning and Development Board, Punjab,
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Punjab to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Punjab
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Punjab to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit avail-
able to Punjab in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by Punjab pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Association has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Credit Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association and provide the records and accounts
               to the auditors within three months after each Fiscal
               Year;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested, includ-
               ing a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                                   ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Punjab will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the PC-1 documents with respect to the Project shall
have been approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC);
     (b)  the consultants required to supervise the implementation of
Parts A through G of the Project have been duly engaged by Punjab in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement, and are on location/site and ready to commence
operations; and
     (c)  that the core PMU staff, consisting of one full time Project
Director, directors, and their support staff shall have been employed.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
Page  6
ratified by Punjab, and is legally binding upon Punjab in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                   Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division,
or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or
Section Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:           Telex:
               ECONOMIC            ECDIV-05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
               By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Meiko Nishimizu
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                  SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Watercourse materials    10,310,000       56%
(2)  Civil works
     (a) Canal structures      1,860,000       80%
         rehabilitation
     (b) Drainage works           70,000       80%
     (c) Canal improvements    4,810,000       76%
(3)  Equipment (including      1,030,000       100% of foreign ex-
     office furniture) and                     penditures, 100%
     vehicles                                  of local expendi-
                                               tures (ex-factory
                                               costs) and 50%
                                               of local expendi-
                                               tures for other
                                               items procured
                                               locally
(4)  Consultants' services     6,880,000       100%
(5)  Incremental operating     6,190,000       90%
     costs
(6)  Training                  4,670,000       100%
(7)  Unallocated               2,680,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               38,500,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "incremental operating costs" means salaries,
allowances and other emoluments of additional staff of PMU, the
Punjab Irrigation Department and the Punjab Agriculture Department,
Directorate General of Water Management, Punjab, appointed to posts
created after June 30, 1996 and recruited in accordance with a
project staffing plan acceptable to the Association for purposes of
the Project, as well as the operating and maintenance cost of
vehicles, equipment and offices of PMU acquired under and used in
the carrying out of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 200,000 may be
Page  8
made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after September 30, 1995.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
relating to incremental operating costs, training and under contracts
not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) $200,000 for goods and works;
(ii) $100,000 for services of consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for
the services of individual consultants, under such terms and condi-
tions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) redefine government's
role in groundwater development; (ii) develop a monitoring program
and regulatory framework for sustainable use of groundwater resources;
(iii) develop sustainable Farmers Organizations to operate and maintain
groundwater irrigation, improve surface irrigation and establish base
for participation in management of the canal systems; (iv) increase
beneficiary incomes; (v) rationalize public expenditure on operation
and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems and increase
recovery of expenditures on irrigation and infrastructure; and (vi)
avoid environmental hazard of saline water intrusion into fresh ground-
water aquifers.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Tubewell Disinvestment
     Disinvestment of all Punjab-owned SCARP tubewells in the Project
Area by transferring them to Farmers Organizations to be operated as
community tubewells or by modifying or replacing them with new com-
munity tubewells.
Part B:     Community Development
     Developing effective Farmers Organizations, which will install,
manage and operate community tubewells, supply irrigation water to
their members, and improve watercourses and irrigation canals.
Part C:     Redeployment of SCARP Tubewells Staff
     Training staff engaged in the operation and maintenance of SCARP
tubewells in the Project Area, to assist in the redeployment of such
staff.
Part D:     Groundwater Regulation
     Establishment of a regulatory framework in Punjab to: (i) strengthen
the capacity for intensive monitoring in critical areas; (ii) determine
the safe yields of aquifers and allocation of groundwater rights; and
(iii) develop and support the institutional setup for implementing
groundwater regulations.
Part E:     Watercourse Renovation in Fresh Groundwater Areas
     Renovating the watercourses in the Project Area and on which com-
munity tubewells have been installed by realigning and rebuilding them
with clean compacted soil to improve the conveyance of canal and tube-
well water efficiently.
Part F:     Rehabilitation of Canal Structures in Fresh Groundwater Areas
     Removing physical obstructions in canal water delivery within the
Project Area through, inter alia, repair of distributing gates,
rehabilitation of diversion structures, desilting, lining and improving
of critical sections and other adjustments for efficient delivery of
authorized discharge.
Page  9
Part G:     Prevention of Saline Groundwater Intrusion
     Control the spread of saline groundwater aquifer into fresh areas
by:
1.   rehabilitating and improving the drainage facilities in saline
areas bordering freshwater aquifers through the installation of about
35 saline tubewells to replace deteriorated drainage tubewells;
2.   reducing drainage requirements through preventive measures, such
as the provision of improved water control structures and lining of
about 26 channels with a capacity of about 100 cusecs; and
3.   improving delivery effectiveness of canals and watercourses through
the improvement of about 100 watercourses in saline pockets and about
400 watercourses in saline areas adjoining fresh groundwater aquifers.
Part H:     Evaluation
     Provision of technical assistance for studies on the impact of the
Project, with focus on: (i) agricultural growth and crop diversifica-
tion; (ii) income and employment, including secondary effects on the
regional economy; (iii) groundwater aquifers and water quality; (iv)
meter use and equity in distribution; and (v) performance of Farmers
Organizations.
Part I:     Project Management
     Strengthen the ability of PMU to manage and coordinate the overall
project implementation by providing office space, office and field
equipment, and vehicles, by conducting workshops and by providing third
party supervision.
Part J:     Studies and Training
     Provision of technical assistance for the purposes of:  (i) prepar-
ing a follow-up project for the disinvestment of the remaining public
tubewells in Punjab; (ii) carrying out a feasibility study on Farmers
Organizations engaged in public borrowing; (iii) overseas and domestic
training of project and Farmers Organization staff; and (iv) carrying
out pilot projects to enhance agricultural productivity by improving
water use efficiency, water management, farmers training, farmers
participation in drainage, and developing methods of construction at
the canal level and contracting arrangements with full participation
by farmers.
                            *      *      *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
Page  10
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 11,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  11
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
