Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2901 PAK
                              Project Agreement
          (Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project)
                                    between
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                      and
                              PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                            Dated September 19, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2901 PAK
                                PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, acting by its
Governor (Punjab).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,500,000) on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Punjab agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to Punjab; and
     WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Punjab declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and irrigation practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and Punjab shall otherwise
agree, Punjab shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Punjab shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, Punjab shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Association and furnish to the Association not later
               than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
               later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
               the Association and Punjab, a plan designed to ensure
               the continued achievement of the Project's objective;
               and
         (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
               exchange views with Punjab on said plan.
     Section 2.04. (a) Punjab shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by Punjab of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (c)  Punjab shall, by July 1, 1998, or such later date as the
Association may agree, initiate pilot projects, which will include the
provision of technical assistance and social mobilization, to decen-
tralize the management at the canal command level and enhance bene-
ficiary participation in the operation and management of the irrigation
systems at the distributory/minor level.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Financial Covenants
Page  3
     Section 3.01. (a) Punjab shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resource and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments and agencies of Punjab
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  Punjab shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Association and provide the records and accounts
               to the auditors within three months after each Fiscal
               Year;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial state-
               ments for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information con-
               cerning said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Asso-
ciation and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
               terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Punjab of this event.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE V
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  4
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     For Province of Punjab:
          The Chairman
          Planning and Development Board
          Government of Punjab
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:           Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT        82-04-4868
                Lahore             Punjab
                Secretariat
                Pakistan Lahore,
                Pakistan
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of Punjab, or by Punjab on behalf of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman,
Planning and Development Board, or such other person or persons as
Punjab shall designate in writing, and Punjab shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Meiko Nishimizu
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                South Asia
               PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
               By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                 Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
Page  5
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
     Works under Part G (2) of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and all contracts for equipment (in-
cluding office furniture) and vehicles other than those referred to in
Part C of this Schedule shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
the first paragraph of this Part B.
     (a)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
          contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by the domestic contractors.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to bid for contracts estimated to cost $10,000,000
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Contracts for works under Parts E, F, G (1) and G (3) of the Project
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, equipment
and construction materials may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Office, survey and flow measuring equipment and furniture estimated
to cost $1,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such pro-
curement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for  equipment, vehicles, and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Page  6
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
1.   Punjab shall:
     (a)  close all government-owned irrigation tubewells by June 30,
1998;
     (b)  in areas supplied by canal water, complete phase out of its
program for subsidizing individually-owned private tubewells by
September 30, 1996; and
     (c)  in areas not supplied by canal water and where private tube-
wells are the sole source of irrigation water, initiate a study for
the preparation of a plan to phase out subsidies to individually-owned
private tubewells and implement such plan by December 31, 1997.
2.   Punjab shall, not later than December 31, 1996:
     (a)  in consultation with the staff affected by the disinvestment
of SCARP tubewells, finalize a training program and severance package
for staff working on the management and operation of SCARP tubewells
who are not eligible for retirement; and
     (b)  ensure that:
          (i)   there are adequate funds in Punjab's budget to fund
                such severance packages; and
         (ii)   all staff who benefit from the severance packages will
                not be hired by Punjab within a period of seven years
                from the date they cease to be employed by Punjab.
3.   In carrying out the Project, Punjab shall ensure that proper
specifications and design criteria are observed to ensure and control
the quality of construction works done.
Page  7
4.   Punjab shall:
     (a)  not later than March 31 each year, furnish to the Association
for its review and approval a draft annual plan, including a work
program and a proposed budgetary allocation for the following Fiscal
Year, cleared by the Provincial Policy Committee of Punjab; and
     (b)  not later than February 15 each year, discuss with the Asso-
ciation the level of funding required for the operation and maintenance
of the irrigation and drainage systems in Punjab for the following
Fiscal Year and, thereafter, provide adequate budgetary allocations
for the funding levels agreed with the Association.
5.   Punjab shall:
     (a)  maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures
adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
     (b)  prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, by
December 31, 1998, reports integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by March 31, 1999, or such later
dates as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
the matter.
6.   Punjab shall ensure that PMU and the existing Provincial Policy
Committee and the Project Coordination Committee will be maintained
with their composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association until Project completion. Without limitation to the
foregoing, Punjab shall ensure that:
     (a)  the PMU, which will be responsible for overall project
management and coordination, has a minimal staff, including a full
time Project Director, two ex-officio members, one each from the
Punjab Irrigation Department and the Directorate General of Water
Management, and three Directors, who will be supported by a
multi-disciplinary consultant team;
     (b)  the existing Provincial Policy Committee provides policy
guidance and steers project implementation through inter-agency
coordination at the highest level; and
     (c)  the existing Project Coordination Committee provides the
coordination among various agencies and facilities project imple-
mentation.
7.   Punjab shall:
     (a)  charge farmers 10,000 rupees for each SCARP tubewell trans-
ferred to the farmers for operation as a community tubewell;
     (b)  in its discretion provide a one-time financial assistance
to farmers, not to exceed 30,000 rupees, for the installation of new
community tubewells and, not to exceed 20,000 rupees, for the modifi-
cation of existing SCARP tubewells into community tubewells;
     (c)  for watercourse improvements under Parts E and G (3) of the
Page  8
Project, ensure that farmers contribute upfront, skilled and unskilled
labor and, at minimum, 30 percent of material costs for the improve-
ments; and
     (d)  for canal lining, ensure that farmers pay upfront, at minimum,
5 percent of the cost of the lining.
8.   Punjab shall recover the following costs from individual farmers:
     (a)  45 percent of  the material costs of the watercourse improve-
ment for which Punjab provided financing to the farmers, through six
installments spread over a three-year period.
     (b)  50 percent of  the capital cost of canal lining improvement
for which Punjab provided financing to the farmers, through repayments
over an eight-year period.
9.   Punjab shall furnish for the Association's prior review and
approval, proposals for training staff overseas and domestically.
10.  Punjab's Planning and Development Board shall hire, independently
of PMU, services of specialists in various fields to carry out detailed
supervision of the Project on behalf of Punjab on an average twice a
year.
11.  Punjab shall provide assistance to Farmers Organizations for
establishing community tubewells only if they meet the following
criteria:
     (a)  the Farmers Organization is registered under the Punjab Water
Users Association Ordinance of 1981 as a water users association or its
subgroup; and
     (b)  the membership of the Farmers Organization comprises at least
one-third of the farmers within the command of a watercourse.
