                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                          RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 04/04/2012                                    Report No.: AC5383
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Argentina                            Project ID: P060484
Project Name: Basic Municipal Services Project
Task Team Leader: Patricia Lopez Martinez
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 2,         Estimated Board Date: June 6, 2006
2005
Managing Unit: LCSUW                          Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                              Loan
Sector: Water supply (27%);Sanitation (27%);Roads and highways (21%);Sewerage
(14%);Sub-national government administration (11%)
Theme: Urban services and housing for the poor (29%);Municipal governance and
institution building (29%);Decentralization (28%);Water resource management (14%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):           110
IDA Amount (US$m.):              0
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                      65.00
                                                                       65.00
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                         Simple []          Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]      No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life and the quality of basic
municipal services through the provision of water supply and sanitation, urban drainage,
and roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner.

 Specifically, the project aims to:

 i.    improve the coverage, quality and efficiency of water supply and sanitation
services in participating municipalities;

 ii.    enhance access to urban drainage infrastructure in participating municipalities;

 iii. increase access to paved roads and reduce logistics costs through investments in
the pavement of urban and productive roads; and
 iv. improve the operational and commercial performance of municipal basic services
through demand-driven technical assistance for medium-term investment planning,
subproject preparation, technical supervision, operations and maintenance and improved
commercial management.

3. Project Description
The project has three primary components:
 (i) Municipal Basic Infrastructure;
 (ii)Municipal Institutional Development; and
 (iii) Program Management, as is outlined below.

 Component 1: Municipal Investment and Services (US$ 132.7 million, including US$
99.3 million of Bank financing). The component finances investments to improve water
supply and sanitation, urban drainage, and basic transportation access services in
participating provinces and municipalities. Specifically, investments in the following
sectors are included:

 (i)    Basic Water and Sanitation: including the construction and rehabilitation of
production infrastructure, primary and secondary water supply networks, sewer network
rehabilitation and expansion, water treatment plants, construction, rehabilitation and
expansion of existing wastewater treatment and disposal facilities.

 (ii) Urban Drainage and Small Retention Works: including the rehabilitation and
expansion of drainage network and small retention works. Subprojects under this
component would be relatively small and would complement investments under, where
possible, the parallel flood protection APL. Typical investments would include main
drainage and secondary networks, manholes and junctures.

 (iii) Urban and Productive Roads: including works for the pavement and rehabilitation
of urban, municipal connector and productive roads in order to both increase access and
improve traffic flows through paved roads for under-serviced urban neighborhoods and
rehabilitate priority segments of productive roads that will have an important impact on
the reduction of logistics costs.

  Component 2: Municipal Institutional Development (US$ 5.0 million, including US$
5.0 million of Bank financing). The component is financing technical assistance
primarily at the municipal level for improved planning, management and operational
capacity that aims specifically to improve the quality and coverage of water, sanitation,
sewerage, urban drainage and road maintenance services. Eligible beneficiaries include
fiscally stable municipalities and provincial basic service providers, regulators and policy
makers in the water and sanitation and roads sectors. Financing for subprojects for
technical assistance under this component is being on-lent to municipal and provincial
service providers in a manner similar to that outlined for Component 1 for works.

 Component 3: Program Management (US$ 5.3 million, including US$ 5.3 million of
Bank financing) to finance the operating expenses associated with program management,
monitoring, evaluation and supervision. The component is financing a strengthening of
core UEC staffing to include technical specialists including sanitary engineers, a roads
specialist and an economist to effectively support subproject development and
assessment. The UEC team is also being strengthened with improved staffing capacity in
environmental management and social safeguard issues, procurement and financial
management.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The Project is currently being implemented in municipalities within eight Provinces
including Rio Negro, Buenos Aires, La Rioja, Tucuman, Neuquén, Santa Fe and
Mendoza. The Project is demand based and thus subprojects to be financed are being
defined on a rolling basis during implementation, subject to eligibility criteria and
subproject screening described in the Project Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF).

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor (LCSEN)
   Mr Ricardo Schusterman (LCSSO)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                             Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                        X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                     X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
During preparation and before appraisal, a screening of 13 potential candidate subprojects
was performed and the Project formally triggered only the OP 4.01 and OP 4.11
safeguards policies. Later during implementation, on June 22, 2010, the Project was
restructured to trigger OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The Natural Habitats
Safeguards Policy (OP 4.04) was not triggered at the time of Project appraisal or the
subsequent Restructuring because the Project did not anticipate any subproject affecting
natural habitats or located within a critical habitat.
  During implementation, a subproject located within a protected area was identified in
the Province of Rio Negro involving the rehabilitation and expansion of the capacity of
the Bariloche Treatment Plant . The plant serves the San Carlos de Bariloche city located
within the Nahuel Huapi National Park (NHNP), which is a critical natural habitat. The
treatment plant is located in the southern shore of the NHNP and it is managed by
Cooperativa de Electricidad de Bariloche (CEB) which holds a concession by the Rio
Negro Province. The subproject specifically seeks to increase the capacity of the plant,
which currently covers only 70% of the needs of the population of the city, to 90% of the
anticipated needs in 2024. As the plant has a final outflow connection into the Nahuel
Huapi Lake, this increase will enhance protection of the natural habitat of the national
park and the lake by reducing the discharge of untreated effluents into the lake. CEB will
be responsible for supervising the implementation of the civil works.

 The properties where the rehabilitation and extension works of the treatment plant will
be performed do not have a forest cover and the site is far from houses. The main
negative potential environmental and social impacts related to the proposed subproject
might include: soil excavations, solid waste, noise, dust, contamination of waters and/or
interception of subterranean waters due to failures during construction or operation,
possible interruptions of treatment services due to the construction activities, among
others.

  Some potential socio- environmental impacts associated with the works could endanger
the natural surroundings of the area of influence, including a rise in the level of
subterranean waters during construction due to the proximity of the project site to the
lake and the needed excavations below the lake water level. Potential risks to the
successful completion and operation of the subproject include: (i) volcanism (last year the
Puyehue volcano caused important emergencies in the region); and (ii) increase of lake
water level due to hydro-meteorological events, among others.

 The Project was classified as Category B, following the Operational Bank Policy OP
4.01. The Borrower prepared an ESMF to ensure measures for the prevention, mitigation
or compensation of potential negative social and environmental impacts and to guarantee
the social and environmental sustainability of the Project. The ESMF includes screening
and risk classification criteria, guidelines for the preparation of Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) and other environmental and social provisions for the preparation and
execution of Project financed investments. The ESMF includes measures to prevent,
mitigate and reduce impact related to these safeguards policies: OP 4.01, OP 4.11 and OP
4.12, and has been updated to include the provisions of OP 4.04 (Projects in Natural
Habitats) to ensure that design and implementation of subprojects in these areas, in
particular the sub-project in Bariloche described above, proceed in compliance with Bank
policy. The updated ESMF reflecting the requirements of OP 4.04 has been disclosed in
country and in the Bank’s Infoshop on April 4, 2012.

 The Project has not triggered the following safeguards policies: Forests (OP/BP 4.36),
Pest Management (OP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Safety of Dams (OP/BP
4.37) Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50) and Projects in Disputed Areas
(OP/BP 7.60). The Government has agreed to not engage in civil works that may cause
impacts triggering safeguards without the prior clearance of the Bank.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The primary potential social and environmental impacts related with the expansion of the
wastewater treatment plant in San Carlos de Bariloche are associated with the increased
and improved access to sanitation services for the current and future population of San
Carlos de Bariloche. An important additional environmental benefit is the reduced
discharge of untreated effluents into Lake Nahuel Huapi, thus enhancing the protection
and conservation of the National Park.

  Indirect or long term negative impacts associated with subproject investments might
include: release of residual waters from urban communities to rivers and streams,
treatment plant final outflows into rivers and lakes, the release of odors in close
proximity to treatment plants, and the generation of sludge with potential negative effects
in the areas of final discharge.

 As part of the proposed Restructuring, it has been identified that the main potential
negative environmental impacts associated with the specific subproject in San Carlos de
Bariloche include: (i) the release of crude effluents when the plant capacity is reached
(specially during the high tourism seasons), a risk that will be offset with the expansion
of the plant’s capacity; (ii) the deposition of the final outflows to the waters of the Nahual
Huapi lake; and (iii) the sludge, which is transported and treated at the campus of the
Comahue University, though a runoff in the sludge treatment area could bring
contaminants back to streams and the lake. The evaluation and mitigation of these
impacts are being reviewed and screened following procedures described in the Project
Environmental and Social Management Framework and potential impacts will be
managed and mitigated under the subproject EIA and EMP.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Given the framework nature of this Project the analysis of alternatives is confined to the
EIA and technical evaluation of subprojects as they are developed by participating
Provinces and municipalities. Based on the technical, environmental and social aspects of
the subproject design, the national-level PIU recommends the evaluation of alternatives
or reformulation to the participating Provinces. As such, adverse environmental and
social impacts have been avoided, minimized, or mitigated by the detailed review and,
where necessary, revision of municipal proposals, EIAS, and EMPS during subproject
preparation and implementation.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
The ESMF of the Project has been strengthened and updated in a manner acceptable to
the Bank to include procedures to address the triggering of the new safeguards policy.
The EMP of the Bariloche treatment plant subproject will include the measures and
procedures acceptable to the Bank to prevent, reduce and mitigate negative
environmental and social impacts. The Province of Rio Negro will present the final EIA
and EMP for Bank approval in April 2012.

 In August 18, 2010, CEB obtained the EIA approval (Resolution No. 416/10) by the
Provincial Environmental Authority (Consejo de Ecologia y Medio Ambiente,
CODEMA) according to Law No. 3266. Also, CEB has the required discharge permits
for the final outflows of the treatment plant intoNahual Huapi Lake from the Provincial
Water Department (Departamento Provincial de Aguas, DPA).

 The Environmental Unit of the Project’s Implementing Unit (PIU) is located at the
Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificaci Federal, Inversion Pública y Servicios).
The PIU has two staff (an environmental and social specialist) who are responsible for
the review of environmental and social assessments for the subprojects and ensuring the
inclusion of ESMF requirements regarding environmental and social mitigation measures
in the bidding documents for the works. Also, at the provincial and municipal level, there
are personnel responsible for supervising contractors compliance with the environmental
clauses.

 Overall Safeguard Compliance has largely been satisfactory during Project
implementation.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The Project key stakeholders are the national and sub national (provincial and municipal)
PIUs, local residents and community organizations (neighborhood associations),
contractors and service providers. Each subproject, depending on the context and type of
investment, has its own specific stakeholders, such as local producers, transport road
users, government units, environmental and social divisions, public works departments,
planning and territorial development areas, etc,

 According to the ESMF, consultations and disclosure consists in the dissemination of
Project and subproject activities and workshops for capacity building on specific
management subjects. Those mechanisms are carried out by local PIUs and directed to
Project and subproject stakeholders. Subprojects are disseminated and debated in public
hearings, where environmental assessments are presented. Documents (EA, ESMF) are
published on local or provincial government web pages, and printed versions are also
available at local government offices. Local PIUs have meetings with potentially affected
people, in order to address their concerns, by means of subproject design and/or including
specific mitigating and compensatory measures. In case of involuntary resettlement, the
RAP indicates that an information and communication program has to be set up for those
affected by the project, including the community which would receive the displaced
people. The program seeks to inform and communicate the subproject and its impacts,
and plan to avoid, mitigate or compensate adverse impacts.
 In relation to the proposed Restructuring and the triggering of the OP 4.04, several
consultations were held including the Administrators of the Nahuel Huapi National Park
(NHNP), Cooperativa de Electricidad Bariloche, Departamento Provincial de Aguas and
local stakeholders. The Government has sent to the Bank summaries of the meetings,
pictures and signed lists of participants. In addition, the Government has sent copies of
multiple letters from the Nahuel Huapi National Park (NHNP) and local stakeholders
requesting CEB to initiate the works at the treatment plant, indicating that the subproject
will benefit not only the lake but the communities of San Carlos de Bariloche, Villa
Angostura, Dina Huapi and Comahue



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  03/27/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              04/04/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               04/04/2012
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  05/03/2010
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              05/03/2010
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               05/03/2010
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
Non Applicable.


C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?               Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)           Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the           Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of        No
critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other   Yes
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?             Yes
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential           Yes
adverse impacts on cultural property?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process               Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector         Yes
Manager review the plan?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's        Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a        Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities     Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project    Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the            Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the              Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?
  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name         Date
Task Team Leader:                   Ms Patricia Lopez Martinez   04/03/2012
Environmental Specialist:           Ms Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor     04/03/2012
Social Development Specialist       Mr Ricardo Schusterman       04/03/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Mr Glenn S. Morgan           03/28/2012
  Comments:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Greg J. Browder           03/28/2012
  Comments:
