          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020073


   1. Project Data



     Project ID                                            Project Name
     P060484                                               AR Basic Municipal Services Project

     Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
     Argentina                                             Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
     IBRD-73850                                           31-Mar-2012                                                             175,424,906.00

     Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
     06-Jun-2006                                          30-Apr-2015

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

     Original Commitment                                           110,000,000.00                                                          0.00

     Revised Commitment                                            103,228,829.80                                                          0.00

     Actual                                                        103,228,829.80                                                          0.00




     Sector(s)
     Water supply(27%):Sanitation(27%):Urban Transport(21%):Wastewater Treatment and Disposal(14%):Sub-national government
     administration(11%)

     Theme(s)
     City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery(29%):Municipal governance and institution building(29%):Decentralization(28%):Water
     resource management(14%)

     Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator                Group
     Ebru Karamete                      Christopher David Nelson           Christopher David Nelson              IEGSD (Unit 4)



PHPROJECTDATATBL



     Project ID                                            Project Name
     P119827                                               CA - Argentina CDS for Buenos Aires ( P119827 )

     Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
     Argentina                                             Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



                                                                                                                                       424,906.00

     Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
     02-Dec-2009

                                                                 IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

     Original Commitment                                                      0.00                                                    424,906.00

     Revised Commitment                                                       0.00                                                    406,788.03

     Actual                                                                   0.00                                                    406,788.03




     Sector(s)
     Sub-national government administration(100%)

     Theme(s)
     Decentralization(20%):Urban services and housing for the poor(60%):Municipal governance and institution building(20%)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
       The specific project development objectives stated in the Loan Agreement (p. 21) is:
       “to improve the quality of: (a) basic municipal services, through the provision of water supply and sanitation, urban drainage and
       roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner within the territorial jurisdiction of Participating Provinces; and
       (b) life of the population to be benefited by the provision of said services”.
       The Project Appraisal Document statement of objectives is (p. 5):
       "to improve the quality of life and the quality of basic municipal services through the provision of water supply and sanitation,
       urban drainage, and roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner".
       This Review uses the Loan Agreement version of the objectives.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
       No



c.     Components
       The project had three components:
       1. Municipal Infrastructure (Appraisal Estimate: US$132.6 million, Actual: 116.4 million).
       The component financed the following investments in a demand- driven design: (i) Basic Water and Sanitation: the construction and
       rehabilitation of production infrastructure, primary and secondary water supply networks, sewer network rehabilitation and expansion,
       water treatment plants, wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. (ii) Urban Drainage and Small Retention Works, including the
       rehabilitation and expansion of drainage network and small retention works. (iii) Urban and Productive Roads, including works for the
       pavement and rehabilitation of urban,
       municipal connector and productive roads in order to both increase access and improve traffic flows through paved roads for under-
       serviced urban neighborhoods and rehabilitate priority segments of productive roads.
       2. Institutional Strengthening of Municipalities and Service Providers (Appraisal Estimate: US$5.0million, Actual: 1.8 million.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



    The component financed demand- driven technical assistance mainly at the municipal level including basic service providers, regulators
    and policy makers for improved planning, management and operational capacity that aims specifically to improve the quality and coverage
    of services. Main topics included multi-year strategic investment planning and budgeting, tariff reviews, improvements in billing, collection
    and commercial management, information, communications and education campaigns in key service sectors, poverty targeting and
    monitoring mechanisms as part of investment planning.
    3. Program Management (Appraisal Estimate: $US$5.3 million, Actual: 3.7 million).
    The component financed the operating expenses associated with program management, monitoring, evaluation and supervision.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates


      Project Cost: Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$ 143.2 million and actual costs were US$ 121.9 million, 85.1% of
      the appraisal estimate. The under-spending was because of changes in financial environment that led to reduction in demand for
      Bank financing (as other sources of financing became available), and therefore many sub-projects originally planned were dropped
      and new sub-projects needed to be found, which substantially delayed implementation. Also, the whole project budget could not be
      spent due to a reduction of the dollar value of some civil work contracts denominated in Peso (ICR p. 8 and 12) because of
      undisbursed funds was due to dramatic changes in exchange rate over the life of the project.(rapid devaluation of peso) and
      therefore reduction of the value in dollars of some works contracts (ICR p. 8 and 12).
      Financing: The IBRD loan of US$ 110.0 million disbursed US$103.2 million and the undisbursed balance of US$6.8 million was
      cancelled at closing. (Operations Portal). The Argentine Peso/US Dollar exchange rate shifted from AR$2.9 to 1 US dollar in 2005,
      to AR$3.05 at appraisal, to AR$8.55 at Project closing.
       The reason for cancelation was a number of activities could not be completed within the revised implementation period due to the
      issues mentioned above.
      Borrower Contribution: At appraisal, the Borrower planned to contribute US$ 33.2 million; the actual contribution was US$ 19.6
      million. The reason for the reduction is not provided by the ICR.
      Dates: The closing date of the operation was extended for 36 months to April 30, 2015 in March 2012 and in July 2013. This
      extension was necessary to enable the completion of the activities as there were significant delays due to slow effectiveness, slow
      implementation, particularly delays in approving Subsidiary Agreements with the Municipalities, coupled with low capacity of
      Municipalities andbut their unwillingness to receive technical assistance provided by the project. In addition, as explained above,
      changes in the financial environment led to revisions in the list of sub-projects that significantly postponed activities.
      Restructuring:
         • One Level- I restructuring was made on June 22, 2010 in order to include Environmental and Social Safeguard Policy OP 4.12
         on Involuntary Settlement.
         • The project went through three Level II restructurings (two of them included extension of closing date for 36 months; dates of
         the restructurings were: June 9, 2008; March 6, 2012; July 17, 2013) in order: (i) amend the Loan Agreement to allow
         participating provinces to carry out and finance sub-projects instead of the Municipalities upon their written delegation; (ii) revise
         the Results Framework to reflect changes in indicators; (iii) reallocate funds from Category 1 (water and sanitation) to Category
         2 (urban drainage and roads) to reflect municipalities’ higher demand for road infrastructure, as well as reallocate funds from
         Category 3 (capacity building and training) to Category 2 due to low demand; (iv) increase percentage to be financed by the
         Bank loan for Categories 1 and 2 from 75 % to 100 % (dropping co-financing for Municipalities).
      The PDO indicator was revised slightly during the 2012 restructuring to define the target beneficiaries as “direct and “indirect” and
      to account for beneficiaries of improvements made in the both new and existing infrastructure. (Indirect beneficiaries refer to a
      wider population, who live in the area and who also benefit from the overall economic and social impact of the projects). Since this
      revision did not fundamentally change the outcomePDO indicator, no split rating is conducted.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



  The original project development objectives were substantially relevant to the country and sector strategies and needs. The project was the
  third municipal sector project of the Bank, and challenges of the sector still continued during the time of preparation. Although subnational
  governments played a key role in service delivery, both provincial and municipal governments remained highly dependent on transfers from
  higher levels of governments and the municipal sector remained underdeveloped in Argentina. Municipalities were dependent on the
  provinces, which dictated their organization, taxing powers, and basic service delivery responsibilities. Municipalities needed to (a) improve
  their financial autonomy, accountability, and market discipline, (b) improve the use of public funds to leverage access to private capital
  investment, and (c) scale- up capacity building activities. In addition, while municipal governments in Argentina were primarily responsible for
  the provision of basic water and sanitation services, and local urban transport investment and management, the provision of these services
  was facing several challenges in terms of expanding the coverage; improving the efficiency of delivery; reducing the cost and making them
  sustainable by improving the selection process; and putting in place cost recovery mechanisms which, in the context of the limited fiscal
  capacity of municipalities, was very much needed.
  The project development objectives were relevant to the strategies. At the time of project preparation, the National Government had introduced
  two main instruments for fiscal coordination: the Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law, and the provincial debt authorization mechanism where the
  latter resolution granted powers to the Ministry of Economy and Production to authorize all domestic and external provincial and municipal
  borrowing operations as resources from the federal revenue sharing system.
  Objectives were also compatible with the Argentina Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period (FY 2006-2008) that supported
  Government efforts to transition from crisis recovery to sustained , private sector-led growth with improved equity and reduced structural
  poverty. The project development objectives were aligned with the CAS pillar, sustained economic growth with equity and social inclusion.
  Support to infrastructure development represented the main lending area in the 06-08 CAS, recognizing the need to rebuild key infrastructure
  capacity following several years of decline in infrastructure investment. Thus the project development objectives were aligned with the CAS
  pillar, sustained economic growth with equity and social inclusion. The Project’s objective continued to be highly relevant at project closing, the
  latest Country Partnership Strategy FY2015-2018 has shifted the Bank’s engagement towards a more comprehensive approach to
  urbanization, while recognizing that but limited financial and technical capacity at the municipal level still adversely affects impacted the growth
  dynamics of Argentina’s cities, hindering their potential to deliver agglomeration economies.




  Rating
  Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

  The project design logic - clear and realistic objectives supported by relevant project activities – was in general sound. The project activities
  were closely linked to the project development objectives. Component 1 through funding basic infrastructure services, contributed to the
  improvement of quality of municipal services. The selection of the investments included technical, economic and financial screening of sub-
  projects in order to ensure optimum selection of investments and to contribute on “sustainability”. Component 2, via technical assistance to
  Municipalities and service providers aimed to contribute to delivery of infrastructure services in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner.
  For example, if demanded, the TA would include measures for reduction in leakage rates in case of water supply; improvement in billing and
  collection rates - arrangements for operations and maintenance and cost recovery for sub-project investments. It was also envisaged that the
  population benefiting from these infrastructure services would improve their living conditions.
  However, one key design flaw was that the TA services were to be demand- driven, i.e. would be provided only if they were demanded by the
  Municipalities. The project realities proved that Municipalities did not see much value in borrowing for these services, instead preferred funds for
  increasing access to infrastructure. This clearly weakened the goals of making service delivery more efficient, and sustainable, through
  strengthening Municipalities by making them more accountable, financially autonomous and more disciplined.
  The results framework had several weaknesses: there was no indicator measuring the improvement in the life of the beneficiaries. In addition
  no indicator measured reliability, quality and adequacy of these services. The project was not a poverty targeted intervention, but the eligibility
  criteria favored pro-poor sub-projects and the project aimed to measure poverty impact criteria through the monitoring and evaluation efforts;
  however the indicator to measure this aspect was weak.




  Rating
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Improving the quality of basic municipality services through provision of water supply and sanitation, urban drainage and roads
     infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner, rated Substantial.

    Rationale
    The objective statement is “to improve the quality of: (a) basic municipal services, through the provision of water supply and
    sanitation, urban drainage and roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner within the territorial
    jurisdiction of Participating Provinces; and (b) life of the population to be benefited by the provision of said services”.
    Based on this statement, this Review considers two objectives (i) "improving the quality of basic municipality services" and (ii) “improving
    the life of the population to be benefited by the provision of said services”. The intermediate outcomes are: provision of water supply and
    sanitation, urban drainage and roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner. Please note that the outputs and
    intermediate outcomes serve achievement of both objectives, and that the appraisal targets for outputs were changed in 2012.
    (i) Improving the quality of basic municipality services through provision of water supply and sanitation, urban drainage and
    roads infrastructure in an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner, rated Substantial.
    Outputs:

        • About 1,463,486 people (297,158 direct beneficiaries and 1,166,328 indirect beneficiaries) benefited from improved access to reliable
        and safe water supply and sanitation, urban drainage infrastructure and improved roads (exceeding the target of one million). The ICR
        described direct and direct beneficiaries, where direct beneficiaries are residents of properties who benefitted from new connections to
        water, sanitation and sewerage supply networks, as well as those bordering improved roads; and indirect beneficiaries refer to a wider
        population, such as people that live in the area where the subprojects were carried out and who are also benefitting from the overall
        economic and social impacts attributed to them (ICR p. 3). However, the distribution of investments differed from those set at appraisal
        because Municipalities’ demand shifted towards more road investments and water supply and sanitation had a lower demand than
        initially anticipated.
        • 173,129 consumers had access to new infrastructure and improved networks for water supply and sanitation services (below the
        original and revised indicator. Original indicator was: “200,000 new consumers are connected to water supply networks”. The ICR noted
        that (p. vii), the indicator was modified to include both water and sanitation beneficiaries and to increase the target value to 250,000 in
        2012.
        • 28,600 new consumers were connected to sanitation and sewerage networks. The target value was modified from 600,000 to 16,000
        in 2012 to reflect lower subproject demand from Municipalities. (The ICR noted that (p. vii) the demand to finance sanitation and
        sewerage works under the Project was significantly lower also than expected at the appraisal stage due to the availability of grant
        financing for this type of investment under other national programs).
        • 4.2 km of urban drainage was constructed (less than both the original target of 100 km and revised target of 10 km as a result of
        demand shifting towards more road investments). 7,200 beneficiaries benefited directly from improved urban drainage (less than the
        original target of 200,000 and the 2012 revised target of 20,000).
        • 85.5 km urban roads were rehabilitated and paved (More than the original target of 30 km and revised target of 75 km).
        • 131.5 km of rehabilitated and paved productive roads were constructed (exceeding the revised target of 125 km).
        • 1,196,473 (122,829 direct beneficiaries and 1,073,644 indirect beneficiaries) beneficiaries received access to improved urban roads.
        The target of 200,000 beneficiaries exceeded.
        • Based on 22 independent technical reviews that were carried out regularly by technical specialists in relevant sectors hired by the
        Bank, the technical quality of the subprojects was found to be satisfactory. All technical comments on subproject implementation
        provided by these technical reviews were satisfactorily addressed by the implementing agency.


    There were attempts to improve the financial sustainability of individual investments by generating cost-recovery and more revenue for
    O&M, but the results are mixed:
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



    Mechanism for achieving cost recovery for investments and Operations and Management (O&M) costs for water and sanitation, drainage
    and roads investments was partially achieved. All water and sanitation sub-projects were designed with a mechanism of O&M cost
    recovery. However, the introduction of cost recovery mechanisms was not implemented in all cases. The ICR noted that (p. 15) financial
    sustainability of O&M remains a concern for all sectors. The financial analyses of all sub-projects provided specific options to recover the
    costs but the post-completion assessment by the Bank showed partial implementation of these cost recovery mechanisms.

        • As drainage investment was fully subsidized by the Provinces, recovery of capital costs from beneficiaries was not necessary (the
        target was 85 percent).
        • 24.4 percent of investment cost for urban and productive roads was recovered from direct beneficiaries but this was substantially
        below the target of 85 percent).


    The results were not reported on the indicator: “Improvements in basic commercial and operational indicators for municipalities and
    provincial service providers including: (i) reduction in losses in the case of water supply; (ii) improvement in billing and collection rates; (iii)
    arrangements for operations and maintenance in place and effective; and (iv) arrangements and targets for cost recovery in place for each
    subproject The ICR noted that (p. x) “Improvements measured by this indicator would have been supported by TA, which was not
    implemented due to provinces’ objection to borrow for this activity. The indicator was not dropped during restructuring because a TA activity
    was being prepared for the Province of Nequén at that same time. Nevertheless, the Province opted out and did not request funds for the
    activity. Terms of reference had been prepared with a focus on management of the sanitation subprojects that were financed”.
    Outcomes:
    Reported results on improvement of quality of basic municipality services through provision of infrastructure services in an equitable and
    fiscally sustainable way was substantially achieved. Although fiscal sustainability is an issue for municipalities as a whole, project
    investments were only made to municipalities that meet national fiscal responsibility standards. In terms of financial sustainability, O&M
    cost recovery mechanisms were put in place. All sub-projects, except the two water subprojects, charged fees to fully cover operating
    costs.
    For cost recovery of investments:

        • For road projects, four participating Municipalities (out of 11 Municipalities) recovered 100 percent for investment from direct
        beneficiaries;
        • Drainage subprojects the existing Municipality was not be able to recover cost for investment; and
        • For water and sanitation projects cost recovery figures was not reported by the ICR but the project team subsequently stated that:
        “Cost recovery for Water Supply and Sanitation Projects was reviewed for the three subprojects under the Economic and Financial
        analysis and none of these projects had active cost recovery mechanisms at the time of ICR preparation”. Water subprojects needed
        subsidies to cover both operating and investment costs.
        • The ICR noted that (p. 40) Provincial Governments are working on policies to attain full cost recovery, but they have yet to be
        implemented.


    There is no direct evidence that the investments were made in an equitable manner. The PDO indicator developed to understand if the
    project was truly targeting the areas of greatest need within each Municipality, had to be revised after it became clear that the information
    was very difficult to gather at the census tract level and instead; instead the indicator gathered information comparing Municipal NBI with
    Provincial NBI; and this did not provide specific data on project areas. The ICR noted that the project was not a poverty-focused project, but
    the Project did, however, introduce technical eligibility criteria and preparation processes (including social assessments and economic
    evaluations) that were explicitly designed to favor pro-poor investments in service expansion and basic infrastructure. However, the ICR did
    not report on gender specific outcomes.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Improving quality of life of the population to be benefited by the provision of said services, rated Substantial.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)




Rationale
Outcomes:
Despite a lack of poverty targeting, basic-needs poor communities formed 55 percent of the project’s investments. 12 out of the 21
participating Municipalities have a higher NBI than the provincial average, representing 55 percent of the sample. (Necesidades Básicas
Insatisfechas (NBI) is an index used by the Government of Argentina to measure access to basic needs - crowding, housing, sanitation,
educational status and related measures. It was included as an outcome indicator with the intent of measuring the extent to which
participating municipalities targeted project investments to areas of greater relative deprivation. The idea behind using this indicator was to
understand if the project was truly targeting the areas of greatest need within each Municipality. However, the indicator was revised after it
became clear that the information was very difficult to gather at the census tract level and instead, the indicator gathered information
comparing the specific Municipal NBI with the overall Provincial NBI. The earlier comment on how selection criteria for sub-projects favoring
poor communities applies here as well.
Limited direct achievements against the objective of improving the quality of life of the population to be benefited by the provision of said
services were reported. The project provided access to water, sanitation, roads and drainage services for approximately 1.5 million people
(directly and indirectly). Households with no access to drinking water were connected to water networks, existing customers gained access
to safer, reliable, adequate water, more efficient networks were built through rehabilitation and installed water meters, increased water
availability and quality was achieved through treatment plants. Households also benefited from constructed sewer networks, improved
sewerage disposal and treatment facilities.
Road infrastructure projects improved travel time and reduced vehicle maintenance costs. Rehabilitated productive roads also helped
farmers to deliver their fresh fruit and vegetable products faster and in a less costly manner (ICR p. 20). While the ICR did not present
robust evidence on broad outcomes such as health and environment benefits of the sub-project investments, it noted savings stemming
from averted costs of alternative water resources (water storage, bottled water), averted costs of improving quality of water (such as boiling
and using chloride pills), reduced losses and time due to improved transportation and reduced costs from floods. (See Section 5 for
details). In addition, the ICR reported (p. 23) additional outcomes (presented by several Municipalities during the end-of project workshop,
although the sampling and surveying methods are unclear for these impacts), some of which are: decrease in migration, increase in
average water consumption, increase in property values, and improvements in gastrointestinal diseases (without providing the size of these
improvements).




Rating
Substantial



5. Efficiency

Economic and Financial Efficiency:
At appraisal the economic evaluation was conducted through a cost-benefit analysis using avoided costs using a sample of 9 subprojects
chosen as representatives of the type of works to be implemented. Benefits of water interventions were captured through socio-economic
surveys conducted in the municipalities included in the sample. For water, averted costs were equal to savings when no alternative water
sources were needed. For sewerage, averted costs were measured as savings of not having to clean septic tanks or other on-site wastewater
disposal system. For drainage, averted costs were measured as: a) avoided damage cost in properties, and b) savings in maintenance costs
of road and public infrastructure. For roads, averted costs were measured as savings on time and fuel cost. When evaluating productive
roads, benefits of reduced losses due to transportation impairments were added. Incremental (with and without project) flow of costs and
benefits for the lifetime of the project, estimated at 30 years for water, sewerage, and drainage works, and 20 years for roads. Operating and
maintenance costs were included to ensure the sustainability of works. The ex-ante rates of returns were significant with economic internal
rates of return (EIRRs) ranging from 9 percent (sewerage) to 39 percent (drainage) and average EIRR was 19 percent. According to the
financial analysis the cost recovery rates were estimated as not covering investment costs therefore, subsidy would be needed (collection
rates in the sample were between 60 percent and 80 percent). Additional subsidies would be needed when current tariffs did not even cover
operating costs, as was the case for most water and sewerage projects in the sample.
The ex-post analysis included the results based on 6 sub-projects representing 45 percent of the total costs. The ex-post economic IRR rates
ranged from 6 percent (sewerage) to 63 percent (drainage) and average EIRR 35 percent. The differences between appraisal and ex-post
was noted by the ICR as (p. 38), the candidate projects were better screened, and those that were not feasible needed to be redesigned.
Sanitation subprojects did not yield positive results as important benefits on health and the environment could not be quantified.
The ICR did not provide a cost effectiveness analysis by providing unit costs, or cost per beneficiary with comparisons from similar projects.
Operational/Administrative Efficiency:
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



 There were some operational and administrative inefficiencies. The closing date was extended for 36 months partially due to slow
 effectiveness, slow implementation particularly delays in approving Subsidiary Agreements with the Municipalities, coupled with low capacity
 of Municipalities to carry out sub-project screening.
 Project efficiency is rated Modest, due to low cost recovery rates and administrative and operational inefficiencies.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project has moderate shortcomings. Both the Relevance of Objectives and Design are rated Substantial The efficacy of first objective, "to
improve the quality of basic municipal services, through the provision of water supply and sanitation, urban drainage and roads infrastructure in
an equitable and fiscally sustainable manner within the territorial jurisdiction of Participating Provinces is rated Substantial, due to substantial
reported results in increasing access to these basic services; and the second objective “to improve the quality of life of the population to be
benefited by the provision of said services" is rated Substantial due to the fact that the infrastructure investments improved the quality of life
through access to safe water and reliable water resources, sanitation services, reduced losses and travel time via improved road networks, and
reduced costs from floods. Efficiency is rated Modest due to low cost recovery rates and administrative and operational inefficiencies.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The main risk relates to the O&M of works. Although the Project design was heavy on cost recovery plans, cost recovery mechanisms have not
been implemented in some areas (particularly in the poorest areas, and in the Water and Sanitation sectors). Operation and Maintenance
depends on Provincial subsidies, since fees only cover a very small portion of the cost. The situation is most extreme in subprojects in Santiago
del Estero, where all three water supply facilities are located in very small towns. The financial evaluation of sample subprojects estimated that
all water and sewerage projects would need subsidies to cover investment costs. Water projects would require subsidies amounting to
approximately 60 percent of investment, while sewerage projects would need subsidies equal to almost the whole investment cost. Some
drainage and road pavement projects are covered by betterment fees, while others require subsidies of between 20 and 60 percent. However,
the ICR did not explain if there is a risk that these subsidies are not completely provided by the provinces.



a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
      Modest
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)




8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry


    Design reflected lessons from various Municipal Development Projects elsewhere and in Argentina; main lessons are as follows: (i)
    Inclusion of federal government was seen necessary to ensure that framework for municipal development was functional and well
    implemented, and activities to improve municipal management would be better placed at the provincial level. (ii) The existing structure for
    on-lending through public sector budget between federal, provincial and municipal governments and for repayment along the same lines
    was kept, instead of using intermediation. The reason for that was that due to the absence of Government policy framework or strategy on
    private sector financing of local governments, no consensus was reached on bringing intermediation element into the project design. (iii)
    Technical eligibility criteria was designed to provide a clear and sound filter for the selection of subprojects. (iv) There was increased focus
    on cost recovery.

    Nevertheless, the issues with the design were: (i) Instead of strictly limiting the number of participating provinces to a few, ideally in a
    geographically contiguous region of the country, an approach which spreads program resources across a greater number of provinces was
    chosen. This would provide an amount too small to produce a large impact, and thus the Bank’s leverage to push for deep reforms at the
    provincial level was limited. This may also partially explain the lack of interest to the project funds from the Municipalities later on, when
    other resources became available. (ii) The project was conceived as a Framework project and followed a demand-driven approach for both
    the sub-project investments as well as TA activities, allowing output targets to evolve during project implementation in response to local
    demand. The project was overly optimistic regarding the interest and demand of provinces on technical assistance to improve provincial
    capital investment planning and project preparation capacities. A detailed assessment of the demand for TA activities at design was
    needed. This would have helped to identify risk of limited demand for TA (unwillingness of municipalities to increase their debt to finance
    capacity building), and therefore, to introduce more flexible financing options for TA activities.

    The project rated as moderate the risk that municipalities would not commit to full cost recovery. However, the risk mitigation measures
    were insufficient.

    M&E design had weaknesses: there was no indicator measuring the improvement in the life of the beneficiaries (including outcomes such
    as health benefits of water and sanitation, reduction in travel time for transport, and increase in school attendance as a result of transport
    and sanitation investments, etc). In addition no indicator measured reliability, quality and adequacy of these services. The outcome
    indicator that was planned to measure the poverty targeting of the project was insufficient, as it was unable to provide disaggregated data
    for the project areas (NBI index).

    A comprehensive safeguard policy was not considered at design stage. Resettlement Safeguard Policy (OP 4.12), as well as Natural and
    Critical Habitats Safeguard Policy (OP 4.04) were not triggered. Resettlement Policy was included through a Level I restructuring in 2010
    but Natural and Critical Habitats Safeguard Policy was left un-triggered. However, in 2011, the Bank’s safeguards team realized that the
    implementation of the Bariloche subproject would require triggering the Natural and Critical Habitats Safeguard Policy since the subproject
    was located next to Lake Nahuel Huapi; but the sub-project had to be dropped due to insufficient time for another restructuring.




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The implementation team collaborated with the Government and to an extent adjusted the Project design to respond to changes in local
   demands; the revisions included dropping 25 percent of the local co-financing requirement, reassigning proceeds, and extending the closing
   date. In addition the team made substantial efforts were made to identify and prepare new subprojects, while ensuring high technical standards
   for subproject preparation and execution. However, the weaknesses regarding supervision were inadequate attention to: (i) revise the project
   design to resolve the lack of demand for TA; (ii) improving cost recovery measures; (iii) address M&E framework shortcomings; (iv) limited
   safeguard policy adjustments in a timely manner to cover all the related safeguards.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)




  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The Government remained committed to the achievement of project objectives, despite policy changes affecting project implementation.
  Nevertheless, there were significant delays in meeting the Project’s conditions for effectiveness, due to long administrative and legal
  processes for loan effectiveness. While such delays were not specific to this Project but they affected implementation.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The Central Executing Unit (UEC) was in general effective coordinating all efforts at the national, provincial and municipal levels during
  stages of subproject identification, preparation and implementation. Although, the Provinces’ and Municipalities’ demand for the Bank’s
  financing decreased, the UEC proactively identified new Municipalities and subprojects to fund and tried to prevent further delays by
  selecting the ones that were at final stages of formulation. Project coordination capacity of both the UEC and Provincial Executing Unit
  (UEP) increased as evidenced by improving procurement and the quality of the progress reports (becoming more timely, comprehensive
  and disaggregated at the subproject level).

  Project preparation and implementation performance of Provinces and Municipalities varied. The main limitation vis-a-vis their performance
  was the initial low-level capacity to prepare and execute the subprojects. The TA component, which was designed for capacity building on
  technical, economic, financial, social and environmental preparation and assessment of subprojects, was found to be unattractive by the
  Provinces and Municipalities. Therefore, they ended up “learning by doing” with significant support from the UEC and the Bank teams, but
  with significant delays in subproject preparation.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  M&E design had weaknesses: there was no indicator measuring the improvement in the life of the beneficiaries (including outcomes such as
  health benefits of water and sanitation, reduction in travel time for transport, and increase in school attendance as a result of transport and
  sanitation investments, etc). In addition no indicator measured reliability, quality and adequacy of these services. The outcome indicator that was
  planned to measure the poverty targeting of the project was insufficient, as it was unable to provide disaggregated data for the project areas
  (NBI index).

  Responsibility for M&E was divided among the national level UEC, UEPs and Municipalities. The Project planned for Poverty Impact Monitoring,
  an Impact Evaluation and Public Opinion Monitoring, all which were not implemented. Progress reports were compiled by the UEC using inputs
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



   from the provincial and municipal agencies.




b. M&E Implementation
   The outcome and intermediate indicators were adjusted during the 2012 restructuring in order to establish a better link with project activities.
   However, the modifications were not sufficient to completely capture the project’s impacts and outputs. The Bank regularly monitored the
   project’s progress through supervision missions. The Project also organized workshops for subproject implementers to share experiences and
   provide feedback. Most of the outcome and intermediate outcome indicators were closely monitored by the Bank’s supervision team and
   reported in the Implementation Status and Results Reports. In order to obtain a more complete picture of the Project’s impacts, some
   Municipalities gathered other kinds of social indicators (e.g. those related to waterborne diseases in the case of water and sanitation, and to
   the productivity of fruit producers in the case of roads.)




c. M&E Utilization
        The ICR did not report on utilization of M&E data. Nevertheless, the M&E data was used to monitor project progress. Also, economic
   analysis was based on M&E data.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was categorized as Category ‘B’ project under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and the Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
   safeguard policy were triggered. The Project was restructured in June 2010, to include OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.

   Social Safeguards. The PAD did not trigger OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, since no resettlement was foreseen at appraisal.
    Consequently, the Project was restructured in the same year to trigger OP 4.12, and an Involuntary Resettlement Framework (IRF) and
   abbreviated IRF were prepared. A total of three abbreviated resettlements plans were carried out in Monte Quemado (Santiago del Estero),
   Gral. Roca-Allen (Rio Negro) and Rosario (Santa Fe). In Monte Quemado, six artisanal micro-businesses were relocated, one of which
   received economic compensation from the Municipality by reason of engaging in a different remunerative activity. In addition, two
   individuals in Gral. Roca-Allen, and one small produce business in Rosario were relocated. Resettlement plans had also been formulated
   for Godoy Cruz and Guaymallén, but ultimately neither required carrying out any resettlements. The adopted measures proved to satisfy the
   safeguards requirements (ICR page ref).

   Environmental Safeguards. The ICR did not provide information on the implementation, mitigation and compliance vis-a vis
   Environmental Assessment (4.01) and Cultural Property (OP 4.11) Safeguard Policies. It was reported that (p. 13): “Application and
   observance of safeguard policies were adequate throughout Project”. However, no assessment results were provided by the ICR that could
   have been conducted during implementation. It was noted that (p. 13), the PAD did not trigger the Natural Habitats (4.04) policy since no
   works in natural habitats were foreseen at appraisal. However, in 2011, the Bank’s safeguards team realized that the implementation of the
   Bariloche subproject would require triggering the Natural and Critical Habitats Safeguard Policy since the subproject was located next to
   Lake Nahuel Huapi, within a protected area (Parque Nacional Nahuel Huapi), triggering a new safeguard policy required a Level One
   Project restructuring. However, the restructuring was not possible due to the freezing of Board action on Argentina. As a result this
   subproject was dropped and alternative eligible subprojects, at an advanced stage of preparedness, were chosen instead.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management (FM). Throughout the implementation period, the Project showed adequate FM arrangements that complied with Bank
   requirements, and audits did not identify any significant issues impacting the project. However, there were constant delays in submitting the
   Interim Financial Reports and Audited Financial Statements to the Bank by the Auditoría General de la Nación (up to 9 months overdue),
   causing the Project’s FM rating to be downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. The last audit report, covering a 16-month period from January 1,
   2014 to April 30, 2015, were to be presented to the Bank on October 31, 2015, and would include disbursements made during the grace period.
   The result of this report was not ready by the time this ICR was prepared. The project team did not report on the result of the audit report.

   Procurement. Despite slow subproject start-up in most Provinces, the ICR reported that (p. 14) procurement processes were overall
   satisfactory. The Bank had initially observed delays in contracting procedures; however, continuous supervision and support from the UEC and
   Bank helped Municipalities and Provinces become better acquainted with the Bank’s contracting requirements, resulting in improved subproject
   procurement processes and more timely disbursements. Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank were prepared and amended as
   necessary to streamline contracting processes.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                              Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

 The ICR provided a series of lessons. The most important two are as follows with some modification of language:
• Key technical assistance activities require different approaches and attractive financial terms for demand-driven projects. The
project experience showed that key technical assistance activities which are critical in improving the Project’s execution and the sustainability of
sectoral policies was not implemented due to the Provinces and Municipalities’ lack of willingness to fund technical assistance through loan
proceeds. Providing technical assistance and opportunities for peer learning from other Municipalities, as well as more attractive financial terms
could be central elements to increase that capacity. In addition, efforts could be made to maximize the use of systemic improvements through
the implementation of specific measures to improve existing systems at the Provincial and Municipal level, instead of focusing on subproject
level compliance.
• Demand driven investment projects flexibly respond to a variety of local demands, however they may not be ideal to support
sectoral reforms, therefore a better strategy to address these two issues could be limiting the project to fewer sub-sectors. Although
subproject eligibility criteria requires detailed economic and technical evaluation of individual investments, it is important to note that individual
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR Basic Municipal Services Project (P060484)



subprojects in a multi-sector project do not receive the same level of attention as in operations with a more limited scope. Focusing on fewer
sub-sectors seems to be a more effective strategy to mitigate this risk and, at the same time, to fully capitalize on economies-of-scale and the
know-how generated by the project. This applies for both physical investments and institutional development.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR was quite comprehensive with candid articulation of implementation challenges as well as good formulation of lessons. However, the
following points needed attention: the ICR did not provide actual costs by component as well as information on a couple of Safeguards. In
addition insufficient information was provided regarding the additional outcomes reported by the Municipalities.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
