Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17204 GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR THE
GAZA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
December 10, 1997
Private Sector Development & Finance Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 1997)
NIS 1 = US$ 0.28
US$ 1 = NIS 3.53
FISCAL Y{EAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIB           European Investment Bank
EM           Environmental Manual
EPZs          Export Processing Zones
FIAS          Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GIE           Gaza Industrial Estate
Gol           Government of Israel
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
LEI           Law for the Encouragement of Investmient
MIDP          Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOI           Ministry of Industry
MW            Megawatts
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PA            Palestinian Authority
PALTEL        Palestine Telecommunication Company
PCBS          Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PEnA          Palestinian Environmental Authority
PIECO         Palestine Industrial Estates Development and Management Company
PIFZ          Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones
PIFZA         Palestinian Industrial & Free Zones Authority
PLO           Palestine Liberation Organization
PPA           Project Preparation Advance
RO            Reverse Osmosis
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TFGWB         Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WBG           West Bank and Gaza
WWTDF         Wastewater treatment and disposal facility
Vice President  Kemal Dervi5
Country Director Josejph Saba
Sector Director  Nemrat Shafik
Task Manager  Judith Press



West Bank and Gaza
Gaz,a Industrial Estate Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Block  1:  Project Description  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 2
1.        Project development objectives-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
2.         Project components----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  2
3.         Benefits and target population  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
4.         Institutional and  implementation  arrangements-------------------------------------------------------------- 3
Block 2: Project Rationale------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4----------4
5.         CAS  objectives supported by the project--------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
6.         Main sector issues and PA  strategy---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
7.         Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and strategic choices ---------------------------------------- 5
8.         Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection--------------------------------------------------- 5
9.         Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies----------------------- 6
10.        Lessons learned and reflected in the project design--------------------------------------------------------- 6
11.        Indications of PA  commitment and ownership  -------------------------------------------------------------- 6
12.        Value added of Bank support ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
Block 3:  Summary Project Assessments ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
13.        Economic Assessment ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 7
14.        Financial Assessment ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
15.        Technical Assessment-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  8
16.        Institutional Assessment---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
17.        Social Assessment ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------11
18.        Environmental Assessment------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 11
19.        Participatory Approach  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12
20.         Sustainability---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12
21.         Critical Risks ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12
22.         Possible Controversial Aspects -------------------------------------------------------------------------------14
Block 4:  Main Loan  Conditions -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------14
23.         Effectiveness Condition---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14
24. Other------------                                                                                                                                           14
Block 5:  Compliance with  Bank Policies--------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15
Annexes
Annex  1          Project Design  Summary---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
Annex 2           Detailed Project Description------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 18
Annex 3           Estimated Project Costs-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------21
Annex 4           Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary-------------------------------------------------------------------------22
Annex Sa  Projected Financial Summary for PIFZA Gaza Operations ------------------------------------------23
Annex Sb  Projected Financial Summary for PIFZA Gaza Operations ------------------------------------------24
Annex 6    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements --------------------------------------------------------25
Table A.           Project Procurement Plan-------------------------------------------------------------------------------27
Table B.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements --------------------------------------------------------29
Table C.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review -------------------------------------------30
Table D.           Allocation of Credit Proceeds-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 31
Annex  7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule ---------------------------------------------------------------32
Annex  8.    Documents in Project File --------------------------------------------------------------------------------33
Annex 9.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits-------------------------------------------------------------34
Annex  10.  West Bank and Gaza at a Glance ------------------------------------------------------------------------36
Map:    IBRD No. 29267






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
West Bank and Gaza Program
Project Appraisal Document
West Bank and Gaza
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Date: December 10, 1997                                             [   Draft        [X] Final
Task Manager: Press                                 Country Manager: Saba.
Project ID: GZ-SF-40503                             Sector: Industrial/IY
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        PTI:       [ ] Yes         [X] No
Project Financing Data  []       Loan          [] Credit []  Guarantee  [X] Other [Trust Fund Credit
out of the Trust Fund for
Gaza and the West Bank]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$10m
Proposed Terms:                [X] Multicurrency      []    Single currency
Grace period (years): 10    []  Standard Variable  [ ]    Fixed        []      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n.a.
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                          Local             Foreign               Total
Government                                         23.5                                    23.5
Cofinanciers (USAID)                                1.0                5.3                  6.3
(EIB)                                   0.8                4.2                  5.0
IBRD/IDA   (Trust Fund for Gaza & West Bank)        2.6                7.4                 10.0
(Under Existing MIDP Credit)            0.3                0.4                  0.7
PIECO (private developer of GIE)                    9.8                4.1                 13.9
IFC (to PIECO)                                                         9.0                  9.0
EIB (to PIECO)                                                         16.1                16.1
Total                                              38.0               46.5                 84.5
Borrower: Palestine Liberation Organization for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Industry/Palestinian Industrial & Free Zones Authority (PIFZA)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY    1998    1999     2000      2001       2002       2003      2004
/US$M):
Annual  1.0        2.6        2.0       1.8       1.0        0.8       0.8
Cumulative  1.0        3.6       5.6       7.4        8.4       9.2       10.0
For Guarantees:       n.a.
Expected effectiveness date: April 30, 1998           Closing date: June 30, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 2
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                     Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The project's development objectives are to increase direct and indirect employment in Gaza and contribute to Gaza's
GDP by creating conditions conducive to private sector industrial investment, including appropriate physical
infrastructure. Progress in achieving these development objectives will be evaluated on the basis of the following
indicators: (a) the number ofjobs created at the Gaza Industrial Estate (GIE); (b) value-added generated at the GIE;
(c) the value of private investment by tenants at the GIE; and (d) the amount of space occupied at the GIE.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                                     CategQry           Cost Incl.    % of
Contingencies  Total
(US$M)
Off-site Infrastructure: the construction of facilities to enable   physical (and project      19.7       23.3
Palestinian utilities and agencies to provide necessary services to the  management
GIE, including water, wastewater, sewage and stormwater disposal,   /institution-building)
electric power, and access roads.
Land: the lease for the land used for the site and for the installation of  physical           23.5       27.8
off-site infrastructure
Site Development: development of the GIE site, including standard   physical                   39.0       46.2
factory buildings, open lots, administration building and on-site
distribution of infrastructure and services.
Technical Assistance: start-up costs and technical assistance,      institution-building,       2.3       2.7
including project management, for PIFZA; environmental monitoring   project management,
equipment; equipment for PIFZA and the Ministry of Industry;        and policy
technical assistance and training for the Palestinian Environment
Authority (PEnA); technical assistance, training and studies for the
Ministry of Industry, including studies for other industrial estates and,
as required, for the enabling environment.
Total      84.5        100.0
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits expected from this project will be sustainable job creation for some 50,000 people in Gaza (20,000 direct
and 30,000 indirect jobs), as a result of private sector investment in the CGaza Industrial Estate (GIE), and the creation of
necessary infrastructure for industrial activity. The activities undertaken at the GIE will contribute to West Bank &
Gaza's GDP, and are also expected to contribute to exports. The development of a more secure and predictable business
environment will also promote additional private sector investment outside the GIE, with corresponding employment
generation. There will also be significant institution and capacity buildirig under the project, in the Ministry of Industry
(Mol), the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones Authority (PIFZA) and the Palestinian Environmental Authority
(PEnA).
Economic benefits
(a) quantifiedfor the economic analysis: contribution to GDP from direct and indirect employment (measured in
economic analysis by wages, using assumption regarding the multiplier to estimate expected indirect employment
creation);



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 3
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                  Project Title: Gaza Industral Estate Project
(b) non-quantifiedfor the economic analysis: contribution to GDP growth; expected increase in private investment
outside GIE; expected increased exports; enhanced skills.
Social benefits
reduction in dependency on welfare in Gaza; change in expectations.
Other benefits
institution building for the Ministry of Industry, PIFZA and PEnA; development of a more encouraging enabling
environment for private sector activity; development of environmental monitoring capacity for industry.
The project's target population comprises (i) wage earners in Gaza, some 20,000 of whom are expected to be employed
in the GIE, with an estimated further 30,000 indirect jobs created; and (ii) the private sector, which will benefit from the
establishment of an appropriate enabling environment, and which is expected to invest some $200 million in the GIE
alone (in addition to the developer's investment).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: six years. This longer than usually recommended implementation period results from the
nature of the turnkey wastewater treatment and disposal facility with its associated operation and maintenance (O&M)
contract, based on performance specifications. A five-year O&M contract is recommended to ensure that the facility
meets the performance specifications at all times as new industrial operations start up in the early years of the project.
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Industry (Mol) will implement the project until such time as the Palestinian
Industrial & Free Zones Authority (PIFZA) is staffed and fully operational, at which time PIFZA will become the
implementing agency; the PA has committed to ensuring that PIFZA will be fully operational by December 31, 1998 at
the latest. PIFZA will be the regulatory authority for Palestinian industrial and free zones; in addition, PIFZA will own
and manage all donor-financed off-site infrastructure. PIFZA will oversee the review and approval of tenant applications
through a one-stop shop. The Palestinian Environmental Authority (PEnA) will implement environmental aspects of the
project, namely environmental permitting as well as compliance monitoring and enforcement. PIECO (the private
developer) will implement site development and management.
Project coordination: Currently lodged in the Ministry of Industry, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been
established to ensure overall project coordination. The PCU will transfer to PIFZA when the latter is staffed and fully
operational.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Ministry of Industry and PIFZA.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: By the start of disbursement, MoI/PIFZA will maintain
accounting records for all project-related expenditures and financing, following generally accepted accounting principles.
Responsibility for financial management for the project will be assigned to a qualified financial officer based at the PCU;
this position will be financed under the Credit. Arrangements have been made and terms of reference prepared for a
qualified accounting firm to establish (a) the financial management system for PIFZA and (b) the project accounts to be
maintained by the financial officer. This financial management system is expected to be in place by end-June, 1998.
Upon the transfer of project implementation responsibility from Mol to PIFZA, the latter will maintain project accounts
and, once its new financial management and accounting system is operational, it will provide audited financial statements
to the Bank in addition to audited project accounts. Audits of project accounts, the special account, and PIFZA's
financial statements, following international auditing standards, will be undertaken by independent auditors and
submitted to the Bank on an annual basis, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year. Audited financial accounts of
the developer will be sent annually to IFC and EIB.
There are no audit reports outstanding for any Bank operations in the West Bank and Gaza.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project will be supervised by the Bank; the IFC and EIB will
supervise PIECO's activities relevant to the project. Performance indicators relating to CAS objectives will be
monitored, to the extent possible, on the basis of GDP, employment and investment statistics gathered by the Palestinian



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 4
Country: West Bank and Gaz,a                                                 Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS); performance indicators relating to the project development objectives, namely
employment, value-added, investment, and occupation rates for the Gaza Industrial Estate, will be monitored and
evaluated on the basis of data gathered by the MoI/PIFZA; indicators regarding project outputs and project components
will also be monitored on the basis of information gathered by the Mol/PIFZA.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the   Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: R96-25 1, dated
project                              December 2, 1996 (Replenishing the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank)
* The establishment of a basis for sustained medium-term growth.
* Create employment, through the delivery of public infrastructure, for poverty alleviation and increased welfare.
*  Develop an environment more conducive to private sector activity.
6. Main sector issues and PA strategy:
The principal issues constraining private sector development have been identified (in Replenishing the Trust Fund for
Gaza and the West Bank, R96-25 1) as: (i) high levels of political uncertainty, (ii) absence of a clear legal and regulatory
environment for investors, (iii) lack of adequate infrastructure, (iv) undeveloped financial markets, and (v) need to adapt
education and training to emerging market opportunities.
The Palestinian Authority's strategy for addressing these issues, and the Bank Group's proposed support, are as follows:
(i) continue the peace process, while in parallel addressing the specific factors of concern on a case-by-case basis in
separate bilateral discussions with the Israeli government. The GIE project is the most advanced example of this
approach; bilateral discussions with technical advice and support from USAID and the Bank are well advanced, focusing
in particular on putting in place satisfactory arrangements aimed at ensuring that the flow of goods and labor will be
affected by border closure only under exceptional circumstances. In addition, a MIGA/Bank Political Risk Insurance
Fund has been approved, to provide cover to international investors.
(ii) develop and put in place an appropriate legal and regulatory environment to attract investors, with support in
particular from the Bank and FIAS. In addition to the work under the GIE project (see para. 7 below), the recently
approved Legal Development Project will support the harmonization and modernization of existing economic, business
and financial laws in the West Bank and Gaza, and help build up the judicial system and infrastructure with a view to
pursuing a private sector-led development path.
(iii) encourage the provision of infrastructure, with private sector participation where feasible. The Gaza Water and
Sanitation Services Project is under implementation; a second privately-managed public infrastructure project, the
Electricity Distribution and Management Project is under preparation; IFC has been approached to participate in an
independent power project in Gaza.
(iv) undeveloped financial markets are being addressed by a financial sector strategy under preparation with Bank and
IFC support; in addition, two projects are either under preparation or recently approved. The Housing Project aims to
develop a secondary mortgage facility and thereby encourage commercial bank financing of housing construction; the
proposed Financial Sector Development Project would seek to make terrn financing available for productive investment
by supporting mechanisms that reduce the risks of financial intermediation. In addition, IFC is implementing an
Outreach program to make term financing directly available to small and medium-scale firms with high potential. IFC is
also preparing a leasing project with a Japanese technical partner.
(v) the PA is exploring appropriate skills enhancement through the preparation, with Bank assistance, of an information
technology development strategy, which will seek ways to mitigate physical constraints to factor movement and to
improve Palestinian access to global technologies and know-how. In addition, the Bank is exploring the possibility of
preparing a vocational training project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 5
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                     Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project helps address the first three issues constraining private sector development in the following ways:
(i) Predictability and security are the hallmarks of an environment conducive to private sector investment. The GIE
represents an effort by the PA as well as the Israeli Government (GoT) to create a more secure and predictable investment
environment. The industrial estates program has its genesis in the Oslo peace process, and is supported by the PA and
the Gol as an important initiative.
Gol has set up an interministerial committee to ensure that GoI policy does not deter Israeli investors from investing in
the GIE. In particular, the committee is looking at issues such as double taxation, customs policy, standards policy and
insurance. With respect to the movement of goods and access of people, the objective is to ensure that inputs and outputs
can be delivered undamaged in a timely fashion, and without significant extra costs. The specific technical arrangements
for goods exported from the GIE via Israel will constitute a significant improvement over the inspection methods used to
date for Gazan goods; they are expected to evolve further as technological possibilities develop, with inspections based
on container scanning equipment by early 2000. Because of the importance of these access and shipping arrangements,
credit effectiveness will be conditional on having arrangements governing the movement of goods and access of people
into. and out of, the GIE in place so as not to impair the commercial viability of operations at the GIE.
(ii) The recently issued Decree on Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones (PIFZ), together with the associated
implementing regulations, has established the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones Authority (PIFZA) and regulates the
relationship between PIFZA, developers, and tenant enterprises. This creates a clear and transparent administration as
well as a legal system which permits expeditious licensing, and facilitating services to cut through any other bureaucratic
obstacles. A significant part of project preparation has focused on the legal and regulatory environment required to
attract investors. In addition to issuing the PIFZ Decree, the PA has decided to revise the Law for the Encouragement of
Investment (LEI), taking advice from FIAS among others. A new draft LEI is currently under review, which is expected
to constitute an "umbrella" framework attractive to the private sector.
(iii) The project will put in place the first infrastructure in Gaza designed with industrial use in mind. Site development
and management is being undertaken by a private developer, PIECO. Off-site infrastructure will be provided on a least
cost basis, bearing in mind reliability and other standards.
While the project does not address skills enhancement ((v) above), namely the need to adapt education and training to
emerging market opportunities, this should not affect the project's success. It is expected that, in the short- to medium-
term, job creation at GIE will largely take up trained Palestinian workers who previously worked in Israel. It is estimated
that there are some 30,000 such workers in Gaza.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Among the project alternatives considered and rejected were the following:
(i) including several proposed industrial estates in the project. This was rejected in part because the preparation of the
other proposed industrial estates was lagging. It was also felt to be useful to carry the process through with one pilot
estate before refining and replicating the process. Furthermore, the proposed estate is located in Gaza, where there is
even greater urgency to stimulate sustainable employment than in the West Bank, where the other proposed estates are
located.
(ii) supporting municipal or local industrial estates rather than a border estate. This alternative was rejected for an initial
project because (a) the project design was less well advanced, and (b) it was unlikely to generate the same level of net
employment creation.
(iii) locating the proposed Gaza industrial estate astride the border between Gaza and Israel. This was rejected as
complicating exponentially the security issues associated with the project, without bringing any obvious benefits.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 6
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                               Project Title: Gaza Industnal Estate Project
9. Major related proiects financed by the Bank and/or other developme nt agencies (completed. ongoing and planned):
None in West Bank and Gaza by the Bank, although further support for the industrial estates program is possible; other
development agencies are considering support for other proposed industrial estates.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A Bank review (Export Processing Zones, Policy and Research Series Paper no. 20, dated March 1992) of experience
with export processing zones (EPZs) has provided strong evidence that EPZs are successful in the medium- to long-term
only when the overall legal and regulatory environment is attractive to investors. This has been reflected during project
preparation in the importance placed upon the development of an appropriate overall enabling environment, in addition
to the PIFZ Decree which focuses on industrial and free zones.
Accumulated experience with projects supporting the development of industrial estates has shown that it is more
appropriate for the state to play a regulatory and enabling role, while leaving the selection, development and management
of estates to the private sector. This approach has been adopted here, with a private developer (PIECO) responsible for
all on-site aspects under the terms of its lease with the PA. The role of the PA is to (i) ensure that the necessary off-site
infrastructure is provided, (ii) put in place appropriate laws and regulations along with the institutions needed to
implement them, and (iii) facilitate discussions and arrangements with Gol with respect to Israeli investors and to the
access of people and movement of goods for the GIE.
11. Indications of PA commitment and ownership:
Regarding the physical establishment of the GIE, the PA has signed a lease with the developer and project management
company, PIECO. The PA and PIECO have worked jointly to define the most suitable off-site infrastructure options, and
PIECO has released space on-site where necessary to accommodate suclh installations. PIECO has also financed the
design of certain off-site components where this work has been urgently needed in order not to delay the overall
implementation schedule. Similarly, various PA agencies have acted, alt the request of the Ministry of Industry, to
facilitate the provision of necessary off-site services in a timely manner. PIECO has also started site development, with
phase I foundations completed and construction of standard factory buildings underway; phase I is expected to be ready
for tenant occupancy from March 1998.
With respect to the enabling environment, the Decree on Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones (PIFZ), together with its
implementing regulations, has recently been promulgated, under which PIFZA has been established. In addition, the PA
is reviewing a draft revised Law for the Encouragement of Investment, prepared largely on the basis of FIAS'
recommendations.
12. Value added of Bank support:
The project is viewed as of such importance by both the PA and the developer that a means would be found to move
forward were the Bank not to add its financial support to the technical and institutional assistance already being provided.
However, the Bank's role has contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, significantly to the project's
credibility both with other lending/donor agencies and with potential investors; this credibility would be endangered if
the Bank withdrew from the project at this stage.
Although borrower commitment and ownership are very strong, both the PA and the developer have requested, and
continue to request, high levels of support from the Bank, which they view as providing essential assistance and support
on all aspects of project design and implementation. The Bank, both directly and through FIAS, has been closely
involved in supporting the PA in the development of the legal and regulatory environment, as well as in the design
process for the Gaza industrial estate. IFC is also working closely with PIECO, helping to facilitate contacts with
potential technical and joint venture partners. In addition, as a multilateral agency, the Bank has been able to facilitate
dialogue and cooperation between the PA, Gol and the donor community.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 7
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                  Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis :NPV=US$94.1 million  [] Cost Effectiveness [] Other
(see Annex 4):               (@ 10%); ERR= 15.5%                             Analysis:
The economic assessment of the project is based on the entire cost of the project, including the opportunity cost of the
land, the costs of providing off-site infrastructure, and the site development costs; the benefits of the project are
measured for Gaza as a whole, through the revenues generated by job creation. For this reason, the economic analysis
cannot be compared to the financial analysis (see below), and differences in flows do not derive primarily from fiscal
factors. Therefore, no comparison is attempted.
The economic viability of the GIE project depends essentially on attracting and retaining investors who will create jobs
directly at the estate as well as indirectly elsewhere in Gaza (multiplier effect); given the limited Palestinian market,
production at the GIE is expected to be largely export-oriented.
Investors will fall broadly into the following three categories: (i) local and diaspora Palestinian investors; (ii) Israeli
investors, as well as certain foreign investors with political as much as financial reasons for investing at the GIE; and
(iii) other foreign investors. All three categories will be needed to make the GIE a success over time, although
projections based on investor demand surveys suggest that the GIE could achieve at least half of its employment
objectives with only the first two categories. This would be sufficient for the GIE project to be economically viable
(ERR of 11.6% instead of 15.5%, assuming also that PIECO does not undertake Phase III site development).
The most recent indications are that investors from the first and second categories are expressing considerable interest in
the estate, with a number of such investors already signed up as tenants. The third category, who are already interested in
the GIE because of the favorable trade agreements with the EU and the US, require evidence that the arrangements
regarding the access of people and movement of goods are successfully implemented prior to investing. The project
should seek to attract the third category of investors, in addition to the first two, because (a) the quantifiable economic
benefits will be greater, and more robust, (b) the other economic and social benefits (which are not quantifiable in the
economic analysis) will be considerably greater, and (c) the financial viability of the GIE from the developer's point of
view requires full development and high occupancy, and it may be difficult to retain tenants if the developer is having
financial problems.
PIECO has undertaken very little marketing of the GIE to date, preferring to wait until it could assure tenants of delivery
dates for both standard factory buildings and the associated utilities (dependent in part on the availability of Bank
financing), and until the recent issuance of the PIFZ Decree and establishment of PIFZA. PIECO has also postponed
significant marketing efforts until the arrangements for the movement of goods and access of people are clearly defined.
Nevertheless, investors already committed to the GIE are expected to generate 1,500-2,000 direct jobs; this compares
favorably with the 800 jobs in year 1 and 1,500 total direct jobs in year 2 assumed in the low investor interest scenario of
the economic analysis.
As shown in Annex 4, the project is very robust with respect to the cost of infrastructure and site development, and quite
robust with respect to the total number ofjobs created and to the monthly wage rate; it is however quite sensitive with
respect to average direct investment per job created. If Phase III site development is not undertaken, the switchimg value
for direct job creation drops to around 8,000.
Fiscal impact (for all projects):
The net fiscal impact of the project cannot presently be estimated; it will depend on (i) the level of tax incentives to be
granted under the new Law for the Encouragement of Investment, and the revised Tax Code, when finalized, and (ii) the
additional tax revenue generated from income taxes and company tax (assuming the PA is the recipient of these taxes).
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ 9.1 million; FRR=14.5%, for PIECO, the GIE site developer
Financial analysis has been conducted from the point of view of the PA (i.e. PIFZA), and is available in Annex 5. These
projections are indicative only, since much depends on the pace at which the GIE and other proposed estates are
developed and space leased. Although it should become self-sufficient over time, through revenues from industrial estate



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 8
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                               Project Tite: Gaza Industial Estate Project
developers and tenants (both initial and annual fees as well as cost recovery of provided infrastructure), PIFZA will need
budgetary support for several years before break-even is likely to be reached. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the methodology to be applied for establishing the rates to be charged for the off-site infrastructure
components which PIFZA will be providing to the GIE, in order to ensure cost recovery and thus, over time, PIFZA's
financial viability. The methodology is based on cost recovery at full (90%) site occupancy, and will include a monthly
tenant fee per m of leased space to cover indirect operating costs (estimated at about US$0.13 per mi2), as well as unitary
consumption charges on services used. Recurrent cost recovery is expected by the end of 2001 and full cost recovery,
based on a discount rate of 5%, by the end of 2002.
In addition, IFC and EIB have undertaken a financial assessment of GIE from the point of view of PIECO, the developer,
i.e. based on site development costs and expected revenues from tenants for leases and services; the estimated IRR,
quoted above, is 14.5% and the NPV is US$9.1 million. This is based on expected leasing rates of US$26 per m2 p.a. for
standard factory buildings and US$6 per m2p.a. for serviced open lots. These leasing rates are quite low by international
standards (about 50% of other comparable facilities), and are considerably lower than effective rates at nearby industrial
estates in Israel. Leasing rates are higher than at industrial estates in Jordan, which have been publicly owned to date,
and heavily subsidized; Jordan is now considering privatizing its industrial estates.
15. Technical Assessment:
The project is technically sound. Site development is being undertaken in conformity with recognized international
technical standards. Off-site infrastructure is being provided in a least cost manner, subject to reliability and quality
criteria. The technical solutions retained for the water, stormwater management, and wastewater sub-components have
all been designed bearing in mind the need to protect the fragile Gaza aquifer, and will be implemented in accordance
with international standards. Treated wastewater will also meet international standards for reuse in agriculture, and the
disposal design provides for access to treated effluent by farmers in nearby agricultural areas, thereby making best use of
scarce water resources.
PIECO has adopted a three-phase implementation approach for site development, and off-site infrastructure
implementation has been planned to meet the site's needs as it develops. No specific industy mix has been identified;
however, three guiding criteria have been established for tenant selection, namely high labor density, low-resource
consuming industries and low polluting industries. On this basis, maximum potential demand for utility services has
been projected for the site at full development, as well as requirements for phases I and II.
The wastewater treatment and disposal facility (WWTDF) will be implemented as a turnkey design and construction
contract, including a three-year (with an option for a two-year extension) operation and maintenance (O&M) contract, on
the basis of performance specifications. A five-year overall O&M contract period has been recommended so that
appropriate system adjustments are made as tenants with different wastewater effluent characteristics start and develop
operations in order to ensure that the performance standards establishecd for the WWTDF will be met throughout site
development. The facility will be built with two 1,000 m3 modules each, providing flexibility for operations and
maintenance. The second module should come on line about one year after the first, thus corresponding to the planned
phasing of site development.
A dual water supply system, funded by a USAID grant, has been designed to provide GIE tenants with both potable and
process water. Two production wells have been installed at the site, each of which will produce about 800 m3/day of
brackish water drawn from an aquifer. A third well was bored in coordination with the Palestinian Water Authority using
Japanese financing and will be brought on line as demand for water increases. This would increase capacity to
2,400 m3/day. Approximately three quarters of the water produced by the wells will be reserved for production purposes,
while the remaining portion will be treated through a reverse osmosis process and piped through a parallel network to
supply about 400 m3/day to GIE tenants in Phase I and approximately 800 m3/day by full development. The water tanks
are designed to be constructed out of cement rather than steel, as cement endures better in sea coast environments, is
easier to maintain and will create more local jobs during construction. The brine condensate generated by the reverse
osmosis plant will be disposed of by pipeline and outfall into the Mediterranean Sea, as recommended by the
environmental impact assessment. Construction of the pipeline and outfall is expected by the end of 1998. Until this



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 9
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                 Project Tile: Gaza Industnal Estate Project
pipeline is completed, condensate will be hauled by truck for disposal at the mouth of Wadi Gaza. As the industrial mix
of tenant factories is difficult to predict, there is uncertainty about the actual demand for water at the GIE at full
development; therefore, the project includes a provision to finance an additional well in Phase III should it be required,
thereby increasing production capacity to 3,200 m 3/day.
Stormwater management will be handled on site by the channeling of runoff, aided by gravitational force, through a
stormwater drainage network. From a discharge point located just outside the site boundary, runoff will pass through an
oil separator and then be pumped to the wastewater retention pond, where it may be used to soften treated wastewater
effluent for possible reuse in agriculture. The system will take into account flood flows resulting from rainfall events
with a frequency of occurrence of once in twenty years.
The electric power connection and distribution system is designed to deliver a total of 3 megawatts (MW), 10 MW and
22 MW by Phases I, II and III respectively. The design includes components to ensure redundancy should part of the
system fail or be damaged, namely two feeder lines, increasing to three in phase III, connecting the GIE to the Palestinian
Authority's electrical distribution network. A 2.2 MW standby generator will also be installed to allow for proper shut-
down or minimal operation of the water and wastewater treatment systems during power outages and to prevent damage
due to possible irregular power supply. Retroactive financing has been approved for the phase I power connection and
distribution system installation (23% of the Credit amount); early implementation is required since power is needed at
the site almost from the beginning of construction, and there is a significant lead time needed to bring it in. All works for
this component of the project will be carried out by the Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA) through direct contracting,
with the exception of the primary and secondary switchgear, for which a turnkey contract with an internationally
qualified firm will be sought to ensure proper installation and operation.
Trucks going to the Al-Muntar crossing point into Israel previously passed through the GIE site area; a road diverting
this traffic, as well as providing additional access to the GIE site, has already been constructed, financed under the
Bank's Municipal Infrastructure Development Project. Road widening in Phase III will provide improved access and
enhance capacity to handle the additional traffic generated by the expansion in the number of tenants at the GIE. Later
phases of the project will also address the need to upgrade entry/exit points to Highway 4.
The cost estimates and engineering data are accurate within acceptable margins, and allowances for physical
contingencies and expected price increases during implementation are adequate. The principle of full cost recovery for
all donor-financed off-site infrastructure has been agreed, as has the methodology for setting the level of PIFZA's
charges to tenants.
16. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies:
(i) This will be the first Bank project for which the Ministry of Industry is executing agency; PIFZA will
take over this responsibility when it is staffed and fully operational. The Ministry of Industry, with offices
in both the West Bank and Gaza, has invested considerable effort in ensuring that all key staff are familiar
with the full work program regarding industrial estates. In addition, USAID organized a study tour in late
1996 for senior staff of the MoI and the developer to gain a deeper understanding of issues regarding policy
for, and operation of, industrial and free zones; countries visited included the Dominican Republic,
Thailand, and the Philippines. Staff based in Gaza have naturally played the major role on technical aspects
related to the development of the GIE and the associated off-site infrastructure, while work relating to the
legal and regulatory framework has been spearheaded by staff based in the West Bank. The Mol has shown
itself capable of managing complex processes during project preparation, but is expected to require some
support during project implementation. US$0.5 million has been earmarked for equipment, technical
assistance and training, and studies for the Mol under the project.



Project Appralsal Document                                                                         Page 10
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                 Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
PIFZA has been established under the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones Decree, and will operate in both
the West Bank and Gaza. The GIE will be the first industrial estate to be established, so activity of PIFZA
will initially be focused on Gaza. Nevertheless, several other estates are under preparation in the West
Bank, requiring fairly rapid development of institutional capacity. Because PIFZA is a new institution
taking over responsibilities regarding industrial estates from the Mol, the Ministry is adopting a dual
strategy for PIFZA's early operations. First, some Mol staff will transfer to PIFZA so, defacto, a PIFZA
core staff is already in place within the MoL. Second, P][FZA, although formally constituted, will operate for
an initial period (about 6-9 months) under the direction of the Mol until it is ready to operate autonomously.
This approach has evolved as a result of the difficulties experienced by the Mol when another institution
was launched. Since the PA provided assurances during, negotiations that PIFZA will become autonomous
no later than December 31, 1998, this approach is acceptable.
PIFZA will own and be responsible for all donor-financed off-site infrastructure. It will be responsible for
setting tariff rates in consultation with relevant authorities and will use the proceeds to cover the costs of
operation and maintenance contracts as well as loan repayment. Additionally, it will oversee the review and
approval of tenant applications. A one-stop shop concept has been established as the principle on which
PIFZA will operate regarding the processing of such applications. The specific mechanisms and procedures
of the one-stop shop are under preparation. Whether it operates as a real or virtual one-stop shop with
respect to the processing of tenant applications, PIFZA and its methods of application processing will be
designed to ensure an efficient and transparent review process.
As a new institution, PIFZA will require technical assistance and training at the outset, in addition to
budgetary support until revenues cover costs; USAID is providing US$ 1.0 million in equipment and
technical assistance, and the Bank proposes to allocate a further US$0.5 million for PIFZA, including the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), for equipment, technical assistance and training needs.
(ii) The Palestinian Environmental Authority (PEnA) was established in early 1997. It is headed by a President
and has a small core staff assisting in setting up the agency. Prior to the creation of PEnA, environmental
responsibilities were incorporated into the structures of existing ministries. PEnA has successfully
completed the merger of these units within its own structlre.
PEnA is today beginning to develop its capacity to prepare environmental laws, standards and norms for
approval by the legislature, set policy goals and introduce policy instruments, put into place a monitoring
system together with a permitting system and an enforcernent capacity. This needs to be combined with a
system to finance environmental management and protection. Work is underway to prepare an
Environmental Protection Law. In the meantime, PEnA is developing a monitoring system together with a
system of permits. Assistance is already being provided to PEnA to develop its capacity in the field of
environmental impact assessment and water management through other donor assistance programs.
Through an Italian consultant trust fund with the Bank, assistance is being provided to PEnA in establishing
a monitoring and compliance system for the GIE, with possible spillover benefits for other industrial zones.
A further technical assistance component is included in the project to help strengthen PEnA's environmental
management capacity; this technical assistance will focus on establishing environmental permitting
procedures, as well as developing monitoring and enforcement capacity for the GIE and industrial zones in
general.
(iii) PIECO (the private developer and project management company) is responsible for site development and
management under the terms of its lease with the PA. A dletailed institutional assessment has been
undertaken by IFC and EIB, which propose to cofinance site development (through both equity and debt
instruments); they are satisfied with PIECO's general institutional capacity. Moreover, PIECO is seeking a
technical or joint venture partner, with a proven track record in industrial estate development, management
and marketing.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 11
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                    Project Ttle: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
b. Project management:
The project will be managed by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which has been established within the
Mol, but will subsequently transfer to PIFZA. The PCU has been established under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and the Coordinator appointed. In addition to the Coordinator, the PCU's staff will
include a qualified financial officer, who will prepare PIFZA's financial statements as well as maintain
project accounts. Assistance will be provided under the project to establish the accounting and financial
management system, designed to facilitate project implementation, enhance strategic decision making, help
produce financial reports, and monitor inventory, billing and collections, as well as satisfy internal control
and working capital monitoring objectives. The project will thus lay a solid foundation for sustainable
sound financial management in PIFZA based on good business management practices.
17. Social Assessment: n.a.
18. Environmental Assessment:       Environmental           [x]  A       []  B      []  C
Category
An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for the project and the following issues were identified as
requiring mitigation:
*  absence of institutional and regulatory framework (e.g. emission standards, permit/license procedures, compliance
monitoring, and enforcement mechanisms)
*  wastewater and stormwater management (including pretreatment/treatment of industrial wastewaters, treatment of
municipal wastewaters, and management of reverse osmosis brine condensate)
-  solid waste management (collection, transport, and disposal of normal and hazardous wastes)
-  potable water supply
*  possible archaeological and historic resources
The project technical design has been prepared to accommodate these issues in an environmentally acceptable manner.
In particular, the technical solutions for the potable water supply (reverse osmosis), stormwater retention and disposal,
wastewater pretreatment/treatment, and solid waste (including normal industrial and possible hazardous waste, e.g.
sludge from wastewater pretreatment) components have all been designed to protect the fragile Gaza aquifer, and meet
international standards. Heavily polluting industries will not be allowed at the GIE due to, inter alia, capacity limitations
on water supply/wastewater treatment and lack of a solid waste disposal facility at the site. In addition, as part of their
lease application for the GIE, prospective tenants are required to undertake to abide by regulations for discharges,
developed during project preparation and incorporated in an Environmental Manual (EM).
The EM includes guidelines and procedures for approval of environmental permits for potential tenants of the GIE,
compliance monitoring, and enforcement mechanisms and institutional responsibilities for implementation. Aspects of
infrastructure which are addressed in the manual include, inter alia, water and power supply, wastewater treatment and
disposal, solid waste management, handling, transport and disposal of hazardous wastes, fuel/oil storage, air emissions,
and noise. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the EM will be implemented, and that the standards contained
therein, and in the implementing regulations attached to the PIFZ Decree, will form the basis for environmental
permitting, monitoring, and compliance efforts.
In addition, an archaeological surface survey has been undertaken of the entire site. The findings of the survey confirmed
that no known archaeological or historic resources exist on the site. Nevertheless, an archaeologist is available on call,
funded by the technical assistance trust fund administered by the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 12
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                     Project Tite: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Subsequent to the completion of the EA, additional issues were raised by Israeli officials and environmental experts
regarding possible groundwater contamination from waste disposal and stormwater runoff, impact of road transport,
noise, and air pollution impacts on agricultural productivity. A small additional study has been undertaken to address
these issues, and assurances have been obtained that any revisions to the Environmental Manual required in light of the
results of this study will be incorporated and implemented.
19. ParticipatoryApproach:                 Identification/Preparation       Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups            consultation                consultation        consultation
Intermediary NGOs
Academic institutions
Local government            collaboration               collaboration       collaboration
Other donors            collaboration               collaboration       collaboration
Government of Israel           collaboration               collaboration        consultation
20. Sustainability:
All the stakeholders have strong incentives to implement the project successfully and to ensure the sustainability of
project benefits, for financial, economic and/or political reasons.
It is possible that PIFZA may require budgetary support beyond the project implementation phase, depending on whether
sufficient other industrial estates have been established in the meantime.
The proposed tariff levels for the various utilities have been set to ensure full cost recovery for the various off-site
infrastructure investments; agreement was reached at negotiations on the methodology to be applied for each utility.
PIECO's investments for site development will be recovered through lease revenues.
A further factor critical to long-term sustainability will be the international competitiveness of goods and services
produced at the GIE, deriving in particular from the wage rate and a well-trained labor force, as well as from the
macroeconomic environment and political stability.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Bi                     Risk                        Risk Minimization Measure
Ratng
Serviced land at GIE not attractive to
private investors, because:
(a) location not attractive            NR      Site development and off-site infrastructure planned in phases, with
implementation as a, function of demand.
(b) inadequate services                NR      Developer can improve services or provide additional ones, as
required.
(c) cannot assure predictable and free  SR     Significant Israeli and international investor involvement at the GIE,
movement of goods and people to                and site development and off-site infrastructure planned in phases,
bring international and new investors          with the intention to develop practical means to assure free
to locate at the site, with the further        movement. Parties are working toward transit via Israel, and through
risk that GIE becomes a reservoir of           Egypt and Jordan, as well as through independent means (Gaza port
captive labor for those investors              and airport). Such transit is required to help attract international
willing to locate there                        investors and enhance the development of Palestinian firms, and also
to prevent GIE from becoming a reservoir of captive labor.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 13
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                             Project Tite: Gaza Industrial Estae Prject
Critical Risks (Cont.)
Rbik                 Risk                     Risk Minimiozation Measure
Rating
(d) cannot produce competitively   MR    Since this is largely a medium- to long-term risk, the PA should seek
to (i) ensure a flexible labor and wage policy, and (ii) promote
appropriate training programs.
Legal and regulatory environment   MR    Investor feedback will be integrated into further development of the
not seen as attractive by investors       legal and regulatory environment.
Political risk that peace process  SR    Even though it is unlikely that the peace process will break down
breaks down or that the overall           entirely, delays and setbacks of concern to investors are to be
conditions are not perceived as           expected. This risk cannot be directly mitigated; however, successful
sufficiently secure and predictable       implementation over time of arrangements for the movement of goods
and people to and from GIE should provide significant comfort to
potential investors, as should significant efforts by both PA and Gol
to create a special status for the GIE to enable it to withstand the
vicissitudes of the peace process.
Project components to outputs
RAk                  RBk                      Risk Minimization Measures
Cofinancing not provided in timely
manner for:
(a) off-site infrastructure and  NR    USAID financing is confirmed (and implementation underway). EIB
technical assistance                    cofinancing is confirmed under an existing project.
(b) site development             MR    Good project management by PIECO, and close coordination with
IFC and EIB.
Unforeseen problems with off-site  NR    Close follow-up of project implementation.
infrastructure
Unsatisfactory performance by      MR    IFC and EIB involvement and supervision. Also, PIECO is seeking
PIECO                                     an experienced joint venture or technical partner.
PA Legislative Council doesn't     MR    Involvement of all stakeholders in development of proposed
approve the proposed legal and            framework.
regulatory framework
Overall project risk rating
Risk                ltisk                             Comment
Rating
Overall project risk               SR    Overall project risk rating derives from the general political risk
factor and, in particular, the risk that the arrangements for the
movement of goods and people will significantly impair the
commercial viability of investors' operations at the GIE. The Bank
has always been aware of the significant level of risk associated with
this project; however, the Bank and other donors have not identified
any less risky project with a comparable potential for generating
sustainable employment and growth in Gaza, and for long-term
development impact.
Nota Bene: NR: Negligible Risk (0-20%); MR: Moderate Risk (20-50%); SR: Substantial Risk (50-70%)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 14
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                               Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A number of small-scale industrialists already operating in Gaza are raising objections because they wish to be given
access to the GIE at highly subsidized rates. However, many of these entrepreneurs would transfer existing jobs to the
GIE rather than create new ones and, as such, are not target tenants for lhe GIE. To help these entrepreneurs find suitable
industrial facilities, the Mol is seeking to move the proposed municipal and local estates program forward in Gaza as
rapidly as feasible. This will also allow industrial works to move from residential areas and alleviate urban
environmental concerns.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Condition:
The following will be a condition of effectiveness:
That arrangements governing the movement of goods and access of people into, and out of, the GIE have been put
in place so as not to impair the commercial viability of operations at the GIE.
24. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements database.]
During negotiations, assurances were received from the borrower regarding the following:
That cost recovery will be implemented for all off-site infrastructure components, according to the methodology
agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
That adequate monitoring and evaluation of the project will be carried out, including:
semi-annual progress reports on project implementation, no later than March 31 and September 30 each
year;
quarterly statements on procurement;
annual audits of the project accounts, including the Special Account and disbursements under statements
of expenditure, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and
project performance monitoring on the basis of agreed indicators (from the Project Design Summary), to
measure the degree to which the project's objectives are being achieved.
That the PA shall transfer to PIFZA all relevant responsibilities temporarily lodged in the Mol not later than
December 31, 1998, and shall thereafter ensure that PIFZA shall carry out its operations in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
That the PA shall ensure that the Environmental Manual agreed between the Bank and the PA is implemented,
and that the standards contained therein, and in the implementing regulations attached to the PIFZ Decree, shall
iForm the basis for environmental permitting, monitoring and compliance efforts.
That a mid-term review of the project will be carried out no later than December 31, 2000.
That employment of consultants and procurement of goods and works will be undertaken in accordance,
respectively, with the Bank's Consultants and Procurement Guidelines.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 15
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                            Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]    [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with all other
applicable Bank policies.]
Task Manager: Judith Press                                           Country Manager: Joseph Saba



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 16
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                          Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 1
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators'       Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
CAS Objective                                                                        (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
*  Establish a basis for     *  Rate of GDP growth in Gaza.   *  Reliable GDP        *  A: Favorable macroeconomic
sustained medium-term                                          statistics for Gaza    conditions
growth.                                                        not presently
availlable.
*  Create employment,        *  Level of employmentlself-      *  Employment          *  A: No severe decline in other
through the delivery of      employment in Gaza                statistics for Gaza    employment (e.g. due to factors
public infrastructure, for                                     (source: PCBS)         related to political risk and the
poverty alleviation and                                                               peace process)
increased welfare.                                                                    R: Political
*  Develop an environment   *  Increased level of private      *   Investment         *  A: Private sector response
more conducive to private    investment in Gaza                statistics for Gaza    R: Political
sector activity.                                               not presently
available
Project Development Objectives                                                       (Development Objectives to CAS
Objective)
*  Promote direct and        *  Number ofjobs created at GIE  *  PA/PlFZA            *  A: Employment, value-added,
indirect employment            baseline:           0           statistics             and investment sustained over
creation in Gaza               mid-term:       6,000                                 time and incremental (rather
end of project:  16,000                               than transfers of existing
full impact:    20,000                                activity); political, economic
and social stability
*  Contribute to Gaza's GDP  *  Value-added at GIE, taking     *  PA/PIFZA
wages as proxy                   statistics
baseline:        0
mid-term:     $14.4 m
end of project:  $38.4 m
full impact:    $48.0 m
*  Create conditions         *  Value of private industrial    *  PA/PIFZA
conducive to industrial      investment by GIE tenants         statistics
investment in Gaza           (cumulative)
baseline:        0
mid-term:     $100 m
end of project:  $180 m
full impact:    $200 m
*  Provide appropriate       *  Amount of space occupied at   *  PA/PIFZA            *  A: Private sector response,
physical infrastructure for  GIE (in '000 of sq. m.)           statistics            with labor intensive investment
industrial activity in Gaza    baseline:        0
mid-term:      165
end of project: 264
full impact:   334 (100%) I
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided in-co values expected at mid-terrn, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 17
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                               Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Project Outputs                                                                            (Outputs to Development Objectives)
*   Serviced industrial land at  *   Amount (%/6) of total planned    *   PA/PIECO         *   A: Private sector response to
GIE                            space available at GIE              construction           the availability of serviced
baseline:          0              records; project        industrial land at GIE (site seen
mid-term:         75              supervision             as well located, meeting needs
end of project:   100                                    for services, flow of goods and
full impact:      100                                     people ensured, can produce on
a competitive basis)
*   Legal and regulatory       *   Implementation of framework;  *   PA and Bank in        *   A: Private sector response to
framework, corresponding       establishment and smooth            consultation           legal and regulatory framework;
institutions                   operation of institutions           during project          R: Political risk that the private
supervision;            sector may not respond if the
possible survey of      peace process does not appear
private sector          sufficiently secure
Project Components                                                                         (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2for a detailed
description.]
*   Offr-site Infrastructure   *   construction progress           *   reports from        *   A: Cofmancing available in
baseline:      greenfield         MoI/PIFZA;              timely manner; no unforeseen
mid-term:  75% complete           project                 problems with provision of off-
end of project:   complete        supervision             site infrastructure
*   Site Development           *   construction progress           *   information from    *   A: Cofinanciers (IFC and EIB
baseline:      greenfield         PIECO/IFC;              expected) provide financing in
mid-term:  75% complete           project                timely manner; satisfactory
end of project:  complete         supervision             performance by PIECO
*   Technical assistance                                           *   reports from        *   A: Cofinancing available in
MoI/PIFZA;              timely manner; PA
project                 Executive/Legislative Council
supervision             approves the proposed legal and
regulatory framework



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 18
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 2
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Detailed Project Description
The GIE is the first in a proposed series of export-oriented industrial estates to be established in the West Bank and Gaza.
The project aims to generate direct and indirect employment in Gaza through creating conditions conducive to industrial
investment and providing appropriate physical infrastructure and business support services for industry. The Palestinian
Authority (PA) has contributed state land for the project on a 49-year nominal ($1) lease to a private sector developer.
The developer is responsible for developing, marketing and managing the site, while the PA has sought donor assistance
to finance the provision of off-site infrastructure services to the site as well as for technical assistance and training.
Project preparation has involved ensuring that an enabling environment conducive to private investment is in place, as
well as technical work regarding the various infrastructure components.
Project Component 1: Off-Site Infrastructure - US$19.7 million
This project component covers the provision of necessary off-site infrastructure to the Gaza Industrial Estate (GIE). The
GIE developer has adopted a three-phase implementation approach for site development, and off-site infrastructure
implementation has been planned to meet the site's needs as it develops across the three phases (see Project Component 3
below). A general breakdown of the off-site infrastructure financing by phase is provided below. A more detailed
breakdown of cost by subcomponerits in given in Annex 3.
Phase I                            $15.2 million
Phase 11                            $2.7 million
Phase III                           $1.8 million
Off-site infrastructure is comprised of 5 components, including water supply, wastewater and sewage treatment and
disposal, stormwater management, power supply and standby power, and access roads. In addition, telecommunication
infrastructure and services will be provided by the private sector, namely the PalestineTelecommunications Company
(PALTEL). A brief description of each of the project components is provided below:
*  Water Treatment and Supply will consist of a dual water supply system, funded by a USAID grant, designed to
provide GIE tenants with both potable and process water. Two production wells have been installed at the site, each
of which will produce about 800 m3/day of brackish water drawn from an aquifer. A third well was bored in
coordination with the Palestinian Water Authority and Japanese financing and will be brought on line as demand for
water increases. This would increase capacity to 2,400 m3/day. Approximately three quarters of the water produced
by the wells will be reserved for production purposes, while the remaining portion will be treated through a reverse
osmosis process and piped through a parallel network to supply about 400 m3/day to GIE tenants in Phase I and
approximately 800 m3/day by full development. The water tanks are designed to be constructed out of cement rather
than steel, as cement endures better in sea coast environments, is easier to maintain and will create more local jobs
during construction. The brine condensate generated by the reverse osmosis plant will be disposed of by pipeline and
outfall into the Mediterranean Sea; until this pipeline is completed condensate will be hauled by truck for disposal at
the mouth of Wadi Gaza. As the industrial mix of tenant factories is difficult to predict, there is uncertainty about the
actual demand for water at the GIE by the full development stage; therefore, the Bank has made a provision to
finance an additional well in Phase III should it be required, thereby increasing production capacity to 3,200 m3/day.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 19
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
* A Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Facility (WWTDF) will be implemented as a turnkey design and
construction contract, including a three year operating and maintenance contract with an option for a two year
extension. It will have a handling capacity of 2,000 m3/day and will be backed up by an emergency disposal facility,
including pumping station and wetwell, capable of disposing up to 400 m /day into the Gaza municipal sewer
system. Disposal of treated wastewater effluent will provide positive aquifer recharge and may be used for irrigation
in nearby agricultural areas.
* Stormwater Management will be handled on site by the channeling of runoff, aided by gravitational force, through
a stormwater drainage network. From a discharge point located just outside the site boundary, runoff will pass
through an oil separator and then be pumped to the wastewater retention pond, where it may be used to soften treated
wastewater effluent for possible reuse in agriculture.
* Power will be delivered to the site in phases in accordance with the projected requirements of GIE tenants. Projected
demand requirements are 3 megawatts (MW), 10 MW and 22 MW for phases I, II and III respectively. In order to
ensure that the required work is carried out without disrupting ongoing operations, the Palestinian Energy Authority
(PEA) will implement the project through direct contracting. The design includes components to ensure redundancy
should part of the system fail or be damaged, namely two feeder lines, increasing to three in Phase III, connecting the
GIE to the Palestinian Authority's electrical distribution network. A 2.2 MW standby generator will serve as backup
supply to allow for proper shut-down or minimal operation of the water and wastewater systems during power
outages and to prevent damage due to possible irregular power supply. Bridge financing has been committed by the
Palestinian Authority and retroactive financing was approved by the Bank for the early implementation of Phase I in
order to keep pace with the developer's implementation schedule.
* A Diversion and Access Road to the Al-Muntar crossing point to Israel and to the GIE site, financed under the
Bank's Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, was completed in July 1997. Widening of the road in PFases
[I and III will provide improved access and enhance capacity to handle the additional traffic generated as the number
of tenants at the GIE expands.
The principle of full cost recovery for all donor-financed off-site infrastructure has been agreed. Estimates have been
prepared for unitary tariff charges based on expected capital investment and operation and maintenance costs for water
treatment and supply (both potable and brackish water), wastewater treatment and disposal, the electrical distribution
network, and the standby generator. The model used for the cost recovery analysis applies a 5% discount rate. A
detailed cost recovery analysis, including sensitivity analysis, for all these off-site infrastructure components may be
found in the project files.
Project Component 2 - S$23.5 million (Land Lease Value)
The land, approximately 48 hectares, on which the GIE is being developed has been provided by the Palestinian
Authority under a 49 year nominal ($1) lease agreement. This lease is valued at US$23.5 million.
Project Component 3 - US$39 million (Site Development)
The developer, the Palestine Industrial Estates Development and Management Co. (PIECO), is a recently formed
Palestinian company with share capital of US$15 million. Financing for the GIE will be provided through three ditferent
sources. PIECO will be investing US$13.9 million in the project. The IFC recently approved a US$1 million equity
participation and an US$8 million "A" Loan, as well as a possible US$7 million "B" Loan. In addition, the European
Investment Bank (EIB) has approved a US$1.1 million equity investment and a US$15 million loan. Site development is
expected to take place in three phases, with estimated costs as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 20
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                 Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Phase I (Completion anticipated by mid-1998)        $10.5 million
Phase II (Completion anticipated by mid-1999)       $14.5 million
Phase III (Expected in 2000)                        $14.0 million
The GIE site is located on about 48 hectares of land leased from the Palestinian Authority and will, at full development,
include an administration complex and 112 industrial plots, each about 2,900 m2 in area, which may be subdivided.
While the size of tenant companies is expected to vary widely, the GIE is projected to employ around 20,000 workers in
250 companies averaging about 80 workers each. Industries most likely to locate at the GIE include garment
manufacturing, wood working, other light manufacturing operations and possibly information service businesses.
Further details regarding this component may be found in the IFC Board Document for the Palestine Industrial Estates
Development and Management Company (PIECO) Project.
Project Component 4: Technical Assistance and Training - US$2.3 million
Prior to the full operation of the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zone Authority (PIFZA), the Ministry of Industry will
serve as the body responsible for all matters related to the GIE. A project coordination unit (PCU) has been created
within the ministry and will transfer to PIFZA by December 1998. The PCU is generally responsible for preparation of
tender documents, supervision of contracts, and project financial management, as well as serving as a liaison between the
MoI/PIFZA and donors.
The technical assistance and training component will provide essential capacity building support for the start-up and
operation of PIFZA. USAID has committed US$1 million toward seven technical assistance and training activities
targeted primarily at PIFZA, namely toward establishing a regulatory and review capability, development of an
organizational structure and management framework, creating an integrated management information system, setting up
a database and reference library, formulation of enforcement techniques, development of a comprehensive promotional
strategy, and establishment of mechanisms for customs facilitation.
The project will finance several of the initial establishment costs of PIFZA, including office rental and utilities, office
equipment and furnishings, vehicles, and contracts for 2 key personnel to help staff the PCU, namely its coordinator and
a financial officer. A financial management system will be set up to ensure that proper accounting records are
maintained and that generally accepted accounting principles are adhered to; an independent auditing firm will be
contracted by MoI/PIFZA to audit accounts annually. In addition, training in environmental permitting, standards
monitoring and enforcement will be provided through courses offered to key personnel and through direct technical
assistance to be provided by an industrial pollution expert and a chemical engineer. Financing will be made available
under the project to procure needed equipment and resources for the Ministry of Industry and undertake sector and policy
studies, as well as to support other project activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 21
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                  Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 3
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                               Local         Foreign       Total
-US------------US $ million-----------------
Component I
Water supply                                              0.8            4.3          5.1
Wastewater and sewage disposal (including O&M              1.1            5.4         6.5
contract)
Stormwater                                                0.3            0.2          0.5
Power supply                                              1.4            4.3          5.7
Stand-by power                                            0.2            0.7          0.9
Access road/Road upgrading                                0.4             0.6          1.0
Subtotal (including contingencies)                               4.2            15.5         19.7
Component 2
Land Lease Value (PA Contribution)                        23.5            0.0         23.5
Component 3
Site Development (including contingencies)                9.8            29.2         39.0
Component 4
PIFZA                                                     0.3             1.2         1.5
Palestinian Environmental Authority                       0.0             0.3         0.3
Ministry of Industry/Studies                              0.2             0.3         0.5
Subtotal                                                         0.5             1.8         2.3
Total Project Cost                                               38.0           46.5         84.5



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 22
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                                    Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 4
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                     Fiscal Impact
Base year: 1997               Economic            Financial
Analysis           Analysis'          Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits
(US$ millions)                481.3
Costs
(US$ millions)                387.3
Net Benefits: (US$ millions)    94.1
ERR:                            15.5% /
Main Assumptions:
Total number of jobs created:                                20,000
Monthly wage rate:                                           $200
Direct investment per job created:                           $10,000
Number of indirect jobs created per direct job:              1.5
Monthly income per indirect job:                             $130
Investment per indirect job created:                         $5,000
Land value per square meter:                                 $50
Cost factor for off-site infrastructure:                     1.0
Cost factor for site development:                            1.0
Switching values of critical items-:
Total number of jobs created:                                9,280
Monthly wage rate:                                           $122.85
Direct investment per job created:                           $15,170
Number of indirect jobs created per direct job:              0.26
Monthly income per indirect job:                             $78.56
Investment per indirect job created:                         $8,790
Land value per square meter:                                 $270.10
Cost factor for off-site infrastructure:                     6.10
Cost factor for site development:                            3.93
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the
difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
2The switching value is the value at which the NPV=O.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 23
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                       Project Tite: Gaza Industal Estate Project
Annex 5a
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Projected Financial Summary for PIFZA
Years Ending December 31
(US$ '000s, 1997 base year)
Implementation Period                      Operational
Period
1222   1998   1229   2aQ    2                        2mQ     5 200   2Q2
Project Costs
Investment Costs                3,200  5,480  4,880  3,880   1,480    580    400       550       0       0
Recurrrent Costs                   0    832   1,197   1,419   1,721  2,024  2,175    2,327  2,408  2,478
Total                           3,200  6,312  6,077  5,299  3,201   2,604  2,575    2,877  2,408  2,478
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
Existing Credit                 22%
New IDA/Trust Fund                      40%    36%    36%    47%    31%    23%         17%     0%      0%
Cofinanciers
USAID                           78%    48%      8%     6%      0%     0%      0%       0%     0%      0%
EIB                             0%      0%    36%    38%       9%     4%      4%      10%     0%      0%
Palestinian Authority             0%     5%      8%     0%      0%     0%      0%       0%     0%      0%
PIFZA                             0%     8%    12%    21%    44%    65%    73%         72%   100%   100%
TOTAL '                          100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   1000/e   100%/  100%   100%
Numbers may not add up exactly, due to rounding



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 24
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                            Project rTile: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex Sb
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Projected Financial Summary for PIFZA
Gaza Operations
Years Ending December 31
(constant US$ 'OOOs)
Income Statement Items      Unit  J1         199      2000      2O11.    25fQO     20        2004      2005     2006
Price
Number of Tenants                      20        38        75       125      175       200      225       238       250
Total Leased Space (000 m2)            24        46        90       150      210       240      270       286       300
monthly tenant fee per m2  0.13
Brackish Water Sold (000 m3)           60       115       224      374       523       598      673       713       748
price per m3               0.29
Potable Water Sold (000 m3)           234       234       234      234       234       234      234       234       234
via connection (000 m3)               19        36        70      1117      164       187      210       223       234
price per m3              0.64
for use as bottled water             215       198       164       :117      70        47       23        11         0
price per m3              1.00
Wastewater (000m3)                     58       112       219      365       511       584      657       696       730
price per m3               0.51
WasteLoad(000kg)                       41        80       156      259       363       415      467       494       519
price per kg               0.53
Power Sold (000 kwh)                 1,261     2,418    4,730     7,884    11,038    12,614    14,191    15,032    15,768
price per kwh              0.13
Revenue                             482.5    717.1   1,186.3   1,826.1   2,466.0   2,785.9   3,105.8   3,276.4   3,425.7
Operating Income                  (1,029.5)  (1,162.2)   (914.9)   (577.8)   (240.7)    (72.2)  96.4    186.3    264.9
Net Income                        (1,033.0)  (1,180.2)   (991.9)   (745.3)   (460.0)   (305.4)   (144.3)    (60.6)  16.0
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                   (326.3)   (441.6)    75.6    412.7    749.9    898.4   1,017.0    856.9    935.5
IDA, EIB, and USAID                5,480.0   4,880.0   3,880.0   1,480.0    580.0    400.0    550.0       0.0       0.0
Subsidies                           329.8    459.6       1.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Sources                     5,483.5   4,898.0   3,957.0   1,892.7   1,329.9   1,298.4   1,567.0    856.9    935.5
Capital Expenditures               5,480.0   4,880.0   3,880.0   1,480.0    580.0    400.0    550.0       0.0       0.0
Working Capital Increase/(Decrease)   0.0       0.0      0.0    245.2    530.6    665.2    684.7    751.8    830.4
Debt Service                          3.5      18.0     77.0    167.5    219.3    233.3    332.3    105.1    105.1
Total Applications                5,483.5   4,898.0   3,957.0   1,892.7   1,329.9   1,298.4   1,567.0    856.9    935.5
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                       62.2      92.4    152.9    235.3    317.8    359.0    400.2    422.2    441.5
Less Current Liabilities          (113.5)    (99.0)    (73.6)    (39.1)    (4.6)     12.7     29.9      39.1      47.2
Net Fixed Assets                   8,680.0  12,889.4  16,098.9  16,908.3  16,817.7  16,559.8  16,469.1  15,837.7  15,884.8
Total Assets                      8,566.5  12,790.5  16,025.2  16,869.1  16,813.1  16,572.4  16,499.0  15,876.8  15,932.0
Debt                                700.0   2,900.0   7,000.0  10,500.0  11,600.0  12,300.0  12,808.3  13,016.7  12,925.0
Equity                             7,866.5   9,890.5   9,025.2   6,369.1   5,213.1   4,272.4   3,690.7   2,860.1   3,007.0
Total Liabilities and Equity      8,566.5  12,790.5  16,025.2  16,869.1  16,813.1  16,572.4  16,499.0  15,876.8  15,932.0
Operating Income as a %
ofRevenue                          -213%    -162%      -77%      -32%     -10%       -3%        3%       6%        8%
Net Income as a
% of Revenue                       -214%    -165%      -84%      -41%     -19%      -11%       -5%       -2%       0%
Return on Average Invested
Capital                             -24%     -18%      -12%       -9%      -5%       -4%       -2%      -1%        0%
Debt Service Coverage                  0.0      0.0       1.0       2.5      3.4       3.9       3.1      8.2       8.9
Percent of Total Capital              92%      77%       56%       38%      31%       26%       22%      18%       19%
Working Ratio                       230%      1690/o    121%       95%      83%       790/o     75%      74%       73%
Operating Ratio                      313%     262%      177%      132%     110%      103%       97%      94%       92%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 25
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                             Project Ttle: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 6
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Credit will finance the procurement of (i) civil works, including operations and maintenance (O&M)
contracts, for the provision of certain necessary off-site infrastructure components to the Gaza Industrial Estate
(specifically water, wastewater, power, and roads); (ii) goods for (a) the provision of power, (b) environmental
monitoring equipment, and (c) vehicles, furniture and office equipment for the Ministry of Industry and PIFZA,
including the PCU; (iii) operating expenditures for the PCU; and (iv) consultants' services for (a) the Ministry
of Industry, (b) PIFZA, including the PCU, and (c) the infrastructure, legal and regulatory, environmental, and
institutional development aspects of the project. Expenditures of up to US$2.34 million (or 23% of the total
credit), made after July 25, 1997, for advance procurement for the first phase power connection are eligible for
retroactive financing out of the proposed Trust Fund Credit. In addition, a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) of
US$1 million was approved for the project, designated for the following procurement categories: services
(77%), goods (20%) and operating expenses (3%). Procurement under the Credit will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits - January 1995,
revised January and August 1996" and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers -
January 1997". The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement under ICB.
Civil Works: Civil works will consist primarily of the design, construction and operations and maintenance
(O&M) of the wastewater treatment and disposal facility (jointly financed by the World Bank and the European
Investment Bank), design and construction of the pipeline and outfall for disposal of the residual reverse osmosis
brine condensate, implementing the power connection, widening of the access road and upgrading other access
points on Highway 4, and up to a four year extension of the O&M contract for the water treatment and supply
system. Contracts exceeding US$1 million will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
while contracts below this amount will be subject to National Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate
equivalent of US$1,800,000. In order not to disrupt on-going operations, the Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)
will be implementing the civil works for the power connection through direct contracting, with the exception of
the primary and emergency switchgear installation for which a turnkey contract will be procured under ICB.
Goods & Equipment: Goods and equipment for all contracts exceeding US$250,000 will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using World Bank Standard Bidding Documents. Goods and
equipment valued between US$50,000 - 250,000, such as most of the equipment and materials for the power
connection, will be procured through International Shopping (IS), up to an aggregate amount of US$1,200,000.
Contracts valued at less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000, will be awarded through National
Shopping (NS). This latter category will comprise the bulk of the procurement and will include office equipment
(such as computers, printers, telephones, a fax machine, air conditioning units, etc.), office furnishings, vehicles,
noise and opacity meters for environmental monitoring.
Consultants' Services: Consultant services will mainly consist of the preparation of studies and the provision of
consulting services for the financial management system, start-up costs for PIFZA, technical assistance and
training for PIFZA, PEnA and the Ministry of Industry, as well as for audits of project accounts. While Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Quality Based Selection (QBS) are expected to be the principal methods
of procurement for these services, provision is made for the use of other selection methods (i.e. Individual, Least
Cost, Consultant Qualifications and Single Source) depending on the nature and size of the contract.



Project Appras Document                                                                       Page 26
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                             Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Review of Contracts: All contracts for civil works costing ULS$500,000 and above, contracts for goods costing
US$200,000 and above, and contracts for consultants awarded to firms valued at US$100,000 and above
(US$50,000 for individual consultants) and sole source contracts will be subject to prior Bank review. All other
contracts will be subject to random post review during supervision by Bank staff. This level of visibility (over
70% prior review) is acceptable.
Procurement Monitoring and Superision: Responsibility for procurement of off-site infrastructure will lie with
the MoI and PIFZA (once staffed and operating). The MoI and PIFZA will have a monitoring function by
reviewing the procurement method and planning, bidding documents, and the evaluation of bids.
Disbursement
The proceeds of the Bank loan will be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for contracts for civil works.
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for goods.
(c)    100% of expenditures for consultants' services, technical assistance and training, and studies.
Disbursements against civil works contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent, goods contracts
exceeding US$200,000, and consultants' contracts exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals, will be fully documented. For all other expenditures, disbursement will be made against Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained
by .MoI/ PIFZA and made available to Bank staff during supervision. The MolV PIFZA will record the contracts
as agreed with the Bank so that the Bank can monitor them for prior or ex-post review as needed.
To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account in US Dollars will be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of up to US$600,000. This deposit is
based on estimates of project financing needs and projected Bank disbursements equivalent to an average of four
months. Replenishment applications for the Special Account will be submitted on a monthly basis, or when half
the amount on deposit has been disbursed. Applications for direct payment or special commitment will be
subject to a minimum value of 20% of the authorized allocation to the Special Account.
Accounts and Audit
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will establish and maintain separate project accounts and records
for project expenditures, including the Special Account. These records will be audited in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects and Disbursements under SOEs, Financed by the
World Bank" (March 1982). The PCU will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures under the
project. These accounts will be audited annually by auditors in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
under terms of reference approved by the Bank. The audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six
months after the end of each year, and will include separate opinions on the adequacy of SOEs and the Special
Account.



Table A: Procurement Plan
, ...................................     ...... .   ... ...........                        ...  ... .............
:::--:::-:sli      T::    ::-Number-of   Esth e  , 4ro;uremestt                     Reiew d                                                              ..n-d.::.::.::--.
sI~~~~w1  Cout  Method4    .  (k4v*s             . ...... tceG
'  .' '.    '    . ' . .''  .':  '       '' " ' '''' ''  ' .'.'' .'.-'' ..' .   . '.,. ''. ''.." :'    'd   ' '  ' .-  '    ''  ''a
''' '"  '':'''..'"'':''""-:'". '  ''-' ""''':' ''.'~''"::  :'':.. '".... '- . .: .'.'..:..
.... ...... ~ ~ ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         eain ....A...  ...pW...
Roatds
-Roads (Phase 11)             CW             1                  400          NCB                Post               8/98               9/98               10/98                11J98                4/99
- Roads (Phase Ill)           CW             1                  300          NCB                Post               2/00               3/00                4/00                 5/00                6/00
Power Transmission  stemi
- Installation of electric    CW             4                 1200           DC                Post              N.A.                N.A.                N.A.                 1/98                3/98
power transmission                                                                                                                                                             5/98                 7/98
system for Phases IA &                                                                                                                                                        11/98                 1/99
B, 11 and 111                                                                                                                                                                  5/00                 7/00
- Underground cables,          G             5                  700           IS                Prior             N.A.                11/97               11/97               12/97                2/98
transformers (Phase IA)
- 22 kV primary and           S&I            1                  800          ICB                Prior              1/98               2/98                3/98                 4/98                 7/98
emergency switchgear
(Phase IB)
- Overhead distribution        G             5                  450           IS                Prior              N.A.               1/98                2/98                 2/98                4/98
line, underground cables,
steel towers (Phase IB)
- Additional cable,            G             2                1,450          ICB                Prior              N.A.               9/98                10/98               11/98                 1/99
transformers and
switchgear expansion
(Phase 11)
- Additional cable and         G             2                1,100          ICB                Prior              N.A.               6/00                7/00                 8/00                10/00              'a
transformers (Phaselll) I
0
Name of package or contract listed by category as appropriate.                                                                                                                                                       5
2Indicate code: CW for civil works, G for goods; S&I for Supply & Installation; ISy for Infonnation Systems; SC for Service Contract (e.g. management contract);
CF for consulting firms; Cl for individuals; TR for training
3If known, indicate number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package                                                                                                                             ji
4Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for minor civil works), FA for Force Account, QCBS, QBS, FB, ICS; SS (for sole-sowurcing of firms or individuals),
Other (for recurent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget)
5-When applicable (civil works)
6 Both Phase I A&B components of the power transmission system are expected to be retroactively financed.



-Du-ac E.ri 0 p ---t0- . -. Wion  Typos   N................. o    Eat#m.  d    Proenfemetit  - - _____......
t:i:  g  0 i E    : t:::-:--  ;-g i;;0:g:tjit--i-E:2  gg -St    -. :-:    .i:  . - # g   0:   --:  .. -.... .-                 .    ...
,00.Sk i..fF 0SiFi.i.W.ig!...!.....-  A  ;    l:-,::;E.....  .   .............         ....   ....    .............  ...........i::-:  iE  -E-
- Design/Const uct/ RosCWMIt200                       NCB              Poste
Concentrate ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~      wr CPmpleino
- esigfonsruWater          SCW          2               200 ~    NCB                Prost           N.A.             I2V98             2/98              8/99              2J03
Treatment Facilities
Technical Assistance & Trainihg
- TA & T for PIFZA       CF/ISy        4/5              200    QCBS, QBS,         Prior/Post
/TR/CI                                   lCS, SS
- PPA                                                 1,000
*   Services                                           (770)    QCBS, QBS,        Prior/Post
lCS, SS
*   Goods                                             (200)         LS
*   Operating Expenses                                  (30)
- Operating Expenses                                    100
- Office Equipment                                      100
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TOTAL                                                10,000...|
7 Figure represents the portion of the Turnkey Contract covered by Bank financing, out of a projected contract value of US$6.1I million.
E
s
PC
X.0~~~~~~
.. ........~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~B
N'  ...-~~~~~
Water & Wastewater Treatment Facolity ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~
- Design/Construct/  CW/  2  1,8007  ICB  Prior       N.A.            12/97             2/98              8/98               5/04~~~~~~
Operate WW Facilities    SC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r



Poject Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 29
*Couty: West Bank and Gaza                                                         Project Ttle: Gaza Industril Estae Project
Table B: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                          rocurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. Works
Water Supply                                   0.5         0.2          4.3            5.0
(0.5)                                   (0.5)
Wastewater Disposal               6.1         0.51                                     6.6
(1.8)                                                (1.8)
Stormwater                                                              0.5            0.5
Power Connection                  0.7                       1.2                        1.9
(0.7)                    (1.2)                       (1.9)
Standby Power                                                           0.9            0.9
Access Roads Upgrading                         1.02                                    1.0
(0.7)                                   (0.7)
Subtotal                                                                               15.9
(4.9)
2. Goods
Power Connection                  2.5                       1.2                        3.7
(2.5)                    (1.2)                       (3.7)
Office Equipment                                           0.1                         0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)
Subtotal                                                                               3.8
(3.8)
3. Services
Technical Assistance &                                      1.2                        1.2
Training                                                   (0.2)                      (0.2)
4. Operating Expeditures3                                  0.1                         0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)
5. Miscellaneou (PPA)                                       1.0                        1.0
(1.0)                      (1.0)
lotw                           9.3          2.0          4.9         5.7           22.0
(5.0)        (1.2)       (3.8)                      (10.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Values are net of taxes.
'Financed under the Bank's Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP).
2The Phase I component was financed under the MIDP.
3 Operating expenditures covered under the project are: rental of office space for the PCU, utility charges, and charges relating to the
operation, maintenance and insurance of vehicles. The amount fnanced annually will remain approximately constant, thus operating
expenditures will be financed on a declining basis.



Projed Appraisal Docunment                                                                         Page 30
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                 Project rdie: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value         Procurement     Contracts Subject
Category                (Threshold)             Method               to
Prior Review
US$
> 1 million             ICB                Yes
I million - 500,000        NCB                 Yes
< 500,000              NCB                 No
2. Goo
2 250,000               ICB                Yes
250,000 - 200,000           IS                Yes
200,000 - 50,000            IS                No
< 50,000                NS                No
3. Srvices
Consultancy by firm                2 200,000          Bank Guidelines         Yes
199,999 - 100,000     Bank Guidelines         Yes2
< 99,999          Bank Guidelines         No
Consultancy by individual          2 50,000           Bank Guidelines         Yes
<50,000           Bank Guidelines         No
'Civil works for the power connection will be undertaken by the Palestinian Energy Authority under direct contracting.
2   Bank reviews short list and proposed RFP but does not review the technical evaluation report.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 31
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                        Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Table D: Allocation of Credit Proceeds1
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Works                                          4.9             100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
Goods                                          3.8             100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
Services                                       0.2             100% of expenditures
Operating Expenditures                         0.1             100% of expenditures
Refunding of Project Preparation               1.0             Amount due pursuant to
Advance                                                        Section 2.02 (c) of the TFCA
Total            10.0
Expenditures of up to US$2.34 million (or 23% of the total credit), made after July 25, 1997, for advance procurement for the first
phase power connection are eligible for retroactive financing out of the proposed Trust Fund Credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 32
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                         Project Tite: Gaza lndustrial Estate Project
Annex 7
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Plamnnd                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
6550.0                  688.0
B. Project Schedule                                    Elanned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                27                      33
First Bank mission (identification)                   03/18/1995              03/18/1995
Appraisal mission departure                           02/18/1997              07/16/1997
Negotiations                                          05/)5/1997              07/21/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         10/31/1997              04/30/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Industry
Preparation assistance: TATF, USAID, World Bank
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Nagy Hanna, Judith Press, Mario Zelaya, Stephen Karamn,
Piotr Wilczynski, Charles Sterling, Husam Abu-Dagga, Khawla Hamed, Hadi Abushakra, Joseph Saba, and
Alastair McKechnie.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 33
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                         Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 8
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Procurement Plan
* Project Economic Analysis*
* Detailed Project Financial Analysis*
* Institutional Analysis and Organization Charts
* Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) Manual
*  Environmental Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Assessment of the Gaza Industrial Estate Project, A World Bank/USAID Technical Report, May 1996.
*  Aide Memoire, Bank Preparation Mission, November 9, 1996
* Aide Memoire, Preappraisal Mission, March 20, 1997
C. Other
 Gaza Industrial Estate Water Management Report, Watek Engineering Corp. (consultant to The Services Group),
October 1, 1996.
- Gaza Industrial Estate Field Conceptual Design for Off-Site Infrastructure Services, September 1996.
- Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones Decree
- The Implementing Rules and Regulations of PIFZA
 Ministry of Industry Decisions establishing the GIE Project Coordination Unit, and appointing the project coordinator.
 Environmental Assessment for the Gaza Industrial Estate Project, December 1996
* Market Assessment and Promotion of Relocating Demand to the GIE, Development Resource Center (DRC), December
1996
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 34
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                             Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
Annex 9
Gaza Industrial Estate Project
WEST BANK AND GAZA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and II)A Credits
(As of December 1, 1997)
Loan or Credit    Fiscal Year    Borrower                 Purpose               (Amount in US$ million -    Closing Date
No.                                                                            rounded upwards)
TFGWB       Disbursed
12 TF Credits
TF026066             94        PECDAR          Emergency Rehabilitation            30.0          28.6          12/31/97
TF026065             95        PECDAR          Education and Health                20.0          14.85         06/30/99
Rehabilitation
TF026058             96        PECDAR          Emergency Rehabilitation 11         20.0          17.58         12/31/97
TF026057             96        PLO             Municipal Infrastructure            40.0          18.78         12/31/00
Development
TF026056             97        PLO             Gaza Water and Sanitation           25.0          6.55          12/31/00
Improvement Project
TF024100             97        PLO             Microenterprise Project              5.0           0.0          07/31/02
TF024112             97        PECDAR          Community Development Project       10.0           2.0          06/15/99
TF026052             97        PLO             Housing Project                     25.0           0.0          12/31/01
TF026050             97        PLO             Investment Guarantee Fund Plroject  10.0          10.0          3/31/98
TF027041             97        PLO             Palestinian Expatriate Professional  3.0           0.0          12/31/00
Program
TF026063             97        PLO             Legal Development Project           5.5            0.0          12/31/01
TF026047             98        N/A*            Palestinian NGO Project             10.0           1.4          12/31/03
*Grant recipient: The Welfare Association



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 35
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                          Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
West Bank and Gaza Strip (IFC)
B. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of October 31, 1997)
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
-IFC-   _            _1FC
FY Approval          Company          Loan  f Equity    Quasi   Participants   Loan    Equity   Quasi   Participants
1994                Arab Palestine        0.00     3.80      0.00       0.00       0.00     3.73    0.00        0.00
Investment Bank
_____ _____ ____ (A PIB )                             _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _                      _ _ _  _ _
1997                Palestine Industrial  8.00      1.00     0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00
Estate Management
and Development Co.
(PIECO)
1997                SEF Nabahin           0.50     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.50     0.00    0.00        0.00
1997                WBG Microlending      0.00     0.00      7.50       0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00
1998                SEF Pharmacare        0.45     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00
Portfolio Totals:    8.95      4.80     7.50       0.00       0.50     3.73    0.00        0.00
Pending
Commitments
FY Approval          Company          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Participants
1994                APIB                  15.00    0.00      0.00       0.00
1997                AB                    30.0     0.00      0.00       0.00
LOANOPTIONFAC
1997                ARAB BANK             0.00     0.00      3.00       0.00
MICRO
1997                JORDAN                0.00     0.00      3.00       0.00
l____________ NATIONAL MICRO
1997                Ramallah Hotel        6.00     0.50      0.00       4.50
1997                SEF ARAB              0.80     0.00      0.00       0.00
CONCRETE
Total Pending        51.80     0.50     6.00       4.50
Commitment:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                             Page 36
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                          Annex  10                                      Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
West Bank and Gaza at a glance                                                               December1997
West   M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Bank &   & North  middleb- 
Gaza    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
Populaton mid-1996 (miNions)                               2.5       272    1,153
GNPpercapita1998(USS)                                    1,718     1,780    1.670                LHeexancy
GNP 1998 (msiNions US$)                                  4,354      484    1,930
GDP per capita 1996 (USS)                                1,537
GDP 1996 (rnr//ions USS)                                 3,895
Awerage anmal growth, 1990-S6
Population (1)                                             5.5       2.7      1.4      GNP                                Gros
Laborforre (%)                                             5.3       3.3      1.7      per                               primar
capita             /           enrollmen
Most recent estimate 
Poverty: headcount index (% of populdation)                 24
Urban populadion (f oftotalpopulation)                      50        57       58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                            70        66       67
Infant modality (per 1,000 live bldhs)                      28        #4       41               Acess to safe wder
Child malnutrition (f of children uader 5)
Access to safe water (f of populaton)                       90        85
Illteracy ( ofpopulation age 15+)                           16        39
Gross primary enrollment (f of school-age population)                 97      104              - Wi3G
Male                                                      90       104      105                 Lower-mddle/ncome group
Female                                                   91        91       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985     1994      1995     1996
GOP (iniNons USS)                             1,004.8   3,154.5   3,564.6  3,395.1     Economic rstose
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   28.6      28.8      17.5     18.5
Exports of goods and non-actor serviceslGDP     29.7      10.5      14.5      9.9             Openness of economy
Gross domestic saAings/GDP                      -31.1    -19.0    -19.0    -22.1
Gross national savings/GDP                       5.3      -6.5      -7.9    -10.3
Cunrentaccount balancelGDP (ind. off. transfers)  -14.6   -1.3    -18.0    -19.3
Interest paymentsGDP                               ..      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total debtUGDP                                     ..      0.0      0.01     0.01     Savings                       Investmen
Total debt service/exports                        ..
Present value of debVGDP                           ..       ..
Present value of debVexports                      ..
1985-93     1994      1995     1995                  Indebtednes
(average annualngWh)
GDP                                             7.3%     9.0%      -4.1%    2.8%
GNP                                            5.2%      3.4%      -5.0%    0.2%                   WiG
GDP per capita                                  3.2%     3.2%    -10.2%    *3.1%
GNPpercapita                                    1.1%     -2.1%    -11.1%    5.5%                   Lower-piddle-4nome goup
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(X OfGDPfc)                                     1985      1994      19f5     1998     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                     19.7      13.8      10.6     11.9      e0
Manufactuing                                     8.0      14.1      15.9     16.1      40
Constuction                                     16.9      14.8      13.6    12.1       20
Private Services                                38.1      39.1      40.8     40.8        
PublilcServices                                 17.3      18.2      19.1     19.1    -20D *        91  92        94  9s  r,
(f of GDPImp)                                                                          40
Privateconsumption                             118.2    100.8    102.7       99.2     40
General govemment omumption                     12.9      18.3      18.3     22.8                -GDi           0  GDP
Imporns of goods and non-factor services        894       36.7      51.3     50.4
1985-93     1994      1995     1998      Growthratesofexports ndImports(%)
(average annual gro wlt)
Agriculture                                     14.8       6.8    -23.6      14.8
Manacturing                                      8.6      27.4      12.6      2.3      20
Construcion                                     16.5  -27.4  -7.6  -99   * 2 0 j                                   / 
Prvate Services                                  6.5      32.2       4.8      1.4    -2 r    90   91   92             94   95
Puble Serviees                                   5.5      -1.2       4.5     1        4
Prvate consumption                               7.0      24.8       4.5      3.6
General govemment consumption                   19.0    .33.5       -8.4    49.8                 -    Export         Imports
Imports ofgoods and non-factor services          5.1
Ex"pors of goods and non-fador services          3.5
Note: 1995 And 1998 data are preiiminary estimates. Figures In italics are for years other than those specHed.
The dblmonds show ftour key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared wifh Its income-groxup average. If data are missing, the diarnond wilt
be incomplete.
Not ealcuuted using the asas mettod.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                    Page 37
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                                                  Project Title: Gaza Industrial Estate Project
1985      1994      1995      1996      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                           30
Consumer prces                                    278.5      12.2       10.2      7 9
ImplicitGDPdeflator                               2778       12.2       17.8     12.6    20
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                               I        go    9:    92    93    94    95
Current revenue                                    11.0       8.5       11.9     17.6
Current expenditure                                 9.0      10.6       13.8     20.0                      GDP dof. ---cPI
Current budget balance                              2.0      -2.1       -1.9     -2.5
Overall surplus/deficit                            -0.9      -3.5       -7.2     -6.6
1985      1994      1995      1996      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
(millions US$)
Total exports of goods (fob)                       272        246       415       290      2:000
Total imports of goods (cif)                       668      1,012      1,673    1,796
Expor price index (1986=100)                                                                .0
Import prce index (1986=100)                                                               ,0
S9  90  91  92  93  94  95  go
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                               19*5 1994            1995      1996                 Exports    En Imports
1985      1994      1995      1996
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor services           305        331       515       387
Imports of goods and non-factor services           750      1,159      1,830    1,964
Resource balance                                   -445      -828    -1,315    -1,577
Net factor income                                  227        395       396       459      Current account balance to GDP ratio%)
Net current transfers (private)                    108         15        17        17
Net current transfers (govemment)                    0        378       261       349       o
Current account balance,                          -147        -40      -641      -752
before official transfers                        -147      -418       -902   -1,101
Financing items (net)                              147       -117       488       560     -10
Changes in net reserves                               ,                                   -2 .                               l
AMemo:                                                                                    -20
Reserves with PMA (mill. US$)                        ..        ..         ..       87
Conversion rate (NIS/US$)                           1.2      3.01       3.01     3.19      309
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1985      1994      1996      1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD                                                ,       0.0       0.0       0.0
IDA                                                 .       2.6      24.8      51.7
Total debt service
IBRD                                               ,,       0.0       0.0       0.0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                           521.9     405.9    510.6
Official creditors                                          2.6      22.2      26.9
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                                30.0      20.0      85.0
Disbursements                                               2.6      22.2      26.9
Principal repayments                                        0.0       0.0       0.0
Net flows                                                   2.6      22.2      26.9
Interest payments                                           0.0       0.0       0.0
Net transfers                                               2.8      22.2      26.9
Resident Mission West Bank and Gaza Strip                                                                               December 1997
Note: The data are subject to considerable uncertainty and a break in the series is likely to have occuffed in 1994/1995 when responsibility for the
collection of economic data was transferred from the Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics.






IBRD29267
GAZGAZSWU
0   PROPOSED GAZA' SEAORz
N Crossing
K    B1J1tTAW AREAS                                            /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Point
-.....-.   ROTE           A   RA                     . u 
*00t.-4::~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:   k, AV  w:~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-
XA.
- --    - _ --------u
/  Jobci4q,(~~~~~~~
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                               Al unJ
X.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
J  
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ De2ir4:,a                                                                                  i 
o   I    2  A    E        L
wAft          ~ghw                                                                                 MILE
/                                    TkrorpioorpropoiodbyttioMopDdogr L)i,Lt of die World Boiik.  3t'20~~~~~~~~~31-2
x~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ei oid   .nndriroir    oyohrnnron
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soe rti  o  ortLpyo A  oto  oWidBo  io0
onyjo5oertr theInLOMTERStoo foyonnyrnndreen
t\  1                   aIKl.nx                                              oroccentorceotruinhboondo,Let.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~''   1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
'N., ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-   , 1-W-.
SYRIAN
REP. 
GAZALEAO)                                                                                                        AB
i-31is     Point      -t                                                                               s-is -    W,                                                          *0T O
aAmman
ARAB.                                                                                                         ..
JORDAN
$Uez
OF EGYPT                                                                                                           ARAB                     Al 'Aqaba
REPUBLIC             t
~OF
EGYPT                                     SAUDI
ARABIA
arts,                                 2,20.                                  3A,252
DECEMBER 1997



