Report No. PIC4838
Project Name                     West Bank And Gaza-Gaza Industrial  r@c N
Estate (GIE) Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Other Industry
Project ID                       XOPA40503
Borrower                         PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian
Authority (PA)
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Industry/Palestinian
Industrial & Free Zones Authority (PIFZA)
Contact                          Dr. Adnan Samara, Deputy Minister
Ministry of Industry Gaza.
Tel. 011.972.7.829.454
Fax. 011.972.7.824.884
Date this PID prepared           June 1997
Project Appraisal date           July 1997
Project Board date               August 1997
Background
1.      The West Bank and Gaza has a very low level of
industrialization and high level of unemployment. The industrial
sector contributes only 8 percent of GDP, and currently faces a
number of serious obstacles. Movement of goods and services is
often blocked by border closures. Serviced land and physical
infrastructure for industry are in short supply and prohibitively
expensive.
2.      There has been no visible peace dividend in the form of new
jobs, improved incomes or increased standard of living, and
frequent border closures have led to high levels of unemployment,
sometimes as high as 70 percent in Gaza and 50 percent in the West
Bank. Over the years, the Palestinian economy has become dependent
on employment in Israel to the extent that in peak seasons 25
percent of overall income in the Palestinian Territories was
generated through work in Israel. However, the number of
Palestinians able to seek and find employment in Israel has
declined significantly from an estimated 120,000 in 1987 to some
30,000 during 1995 and about 25,000 in 1996. Though investor
confidence appeared to increase with the initiation of the peace
process, investment in the industrial sector has been minimal since
1993 and the limited amount of term lending -- an indicator of
investor confidence -- continues to lag behind expectations. For
the most part, the past few years have seen private investment
concentrating in the construction sector, particularly for
residential buildings; this is often assumed to be an indicator of
an unhealthy economy. The proposed Gaza Industrial Estates (GIE)



Project aims to initiate a process that will reverse these trends
and 'jump start' industrial investment.
3.      Export-oriented industrial production is one of the main
promising sectors to create sustainable employment and to stimulate
overall economic growth. To improve industrial competitiveness and
current living standards in the West Bank and Gaza, it is vital
that Palestinian industry expand and move into higher value-added
activities, better quality goods, and more sophisticated markets.
The recently signed trade agreements between the PA and the United
States and European Union together with a well-educated workforce
and relatively low wages make the WBG an attractive option for
investors, both local and foreign. Palestinian and Israeli
investors' demand for industrial space and for reliable access to
labor and markets remains strong, provided certain guarantees are
met. Private entrepreneurial groups are moving forward with plans
for developing these estates.
Project Objectives
4.      The project's development objectives are: (i) to create
direct and indirect employment in Gaza through: (ii) bringing about
conditions conducive to industrial investment; and (iii) providing
appropriate physical infrastructure for industry. Progress in
achieving these development objectives will be evaluated on the
basis of the following indicators: (a) the number of jobs created
at the GIE and the positive spillover of indirect job creation; (b)
the value of private industrial investment by tenants at the GIE;
and (c) the amount of space occupied at the GIE.
Project Description
5.      The project is made up of four components as follows:
Project Component 1: The provision of necessary off-site
infrastructure to the GIE. This will include: water supply,
wastewater treatment and disposal, stormwater management, power
supply and stand-by power, telecommunications, and access road/road
upgrading. Since the site is to be developed in 3 phases (see
Project Component 2 below), off-site infrastructure will also be
provided in phases. All off-site infrastructure components will be
designed to meet GIE requirements at full development with full
occupancy.
Project Component 2: The land, approximately 50 hectares, on which
the GIE is being developed has been provided by the Palestinian
Authority through a 49 year lease at a nominal fee; this land is
valued at US$23.5 million.
Project Component 3: Site development of the GIE. This component
will be financed by PIECO, the estate developer, with support (both
equity and debt) from the IFC and probably also EIB.
Project Component 4: This component includes start-up costs for the
Palestinian Industrial & Free Zones Authority (PIFZA) and the
- 2 -



Project Coordination Unit (PCU), as well as technical assistance
and training for the following areas: PIFZA operations, Ministry of
Industry strategy and policy development, and studies to help
prepare follow-on projects (both the enabling environment and
physical studies).
Project Financing
6.      The total project cost is currently estimated at US$85.5
million, including the value of the land, and US$62 million
excluding the land value. It is expected that The Bank will finance
US$10 million for off-site infrastructure and technical assistance,
while USAID has committed to financing US$5.2 million in off-site
infrastructure and US$1 million in technical assistance. Another
likely source of financing for off-site infrastructure is the
European Investment Bank (EIB). For GIE site development, an
estimated US$39 million is required. Of this, the developer, PIECO,
will invest US$13.9 million. The balance will be made up of equity
and loans from the IFC and probably the EIB. The IFC has recently
approved a US$1 million equity participation and a US$8 million A
Loan; an additional B Loan may be issued, depending on the
involvement of other financiers. The EIB is considering an
investment of US$1.1 million in equity and a US$15 million loan.
Implementation
7.      All off-site infrastructure components, with the exception of
power, will be owned and implemented by the Ministry of Industry
and, once created, by the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones
Authority (PIFZA). The infrastructure installed for electric power
distribution will be owned and administered by the Palestinian
Energy Authority (PEA). A private sector company, The Palestine
Industrial Estate Company (PIECO), will be responsible for site
development and management.
Benefits and Target Population
8.      The benefits expected from this project will be sustainable
job creation for some 50,000 people in Gaza (20,000 direct and
30,000 indirect jobs), in conjunction with private sector
investment in the GIE, which will provide the necessary
infrastructure for industrial activity. The activities undertaken
at the GIE will contribute to West Bank and Gaza's GDP, and are
also expected to contribute to exports. The development of an
encouraging enabling environment will also promote additional
private sector investment outside the GIE, with corresponding
employment generation. There will also be significant institution
and capacity building under the project. The project's target
population is: (i) wage earners in Gaza; and (ii) the private
sector, which will benefit from the establishment of an encouraging
enabling environment, and which is expected to invest some $200
million in the GIE alone (in addition to the developer's investment).
Risks
-3-



9.      The overall project risk depends on how one evaluates the
political risk factor. While it seems unlikely at present that the
peace process will break down entirely, it is likely that there
will be delays and setbacks that will concern investors. This risk
cannot be directly mitigated; however, it is hoped that successful
implementation over time of the arrangements to be put in place
regarding the shipment of goods and access of people to and from
the GIE should provide significant comfort to potential investors.
Sustainability
10.     All the stakeholders have strong incentives to implement the
project successfully and to ensure the sustainability of project
benefits, for financial, economic and/or political reasons. Tariff
levels for the various utilities provided will be set at levels
which ensure full cost recovery for the various off-site
infrastructure investments. PIECO's investments for site
development will be recovered through lease revenues and service
fees. A further factor critical to long-term sustainability will be
the international competitiveness of goods and services produced at
GIE, deriving in particular from the wage rate and a well-trained
labor force, as well as from the macroeconomic environment and
political stability.
Lessons Learned
11.     A Bank review (Export Processing Zones, Policy and Research
Series Paper no. 20, dated March 1992) of experience with export
processing zones (EPZs) has provided strong evidence that EPZs are
successful in the medium- to long-term only when the economy as a
whole is open, and this is reflected in the overall legal and
regulatory environment. This lesson has been heeded in project
preparation through the emphasis placed upon the development of an
enabling environment attractive to investors. Accumulated
experience with projects supporting the development of industrial
estates has shown that it is more appropriate for the State to play
a regulatory and enabling role, while leaving the selection,
development and management of estates to the private sector. This
approach has been adopted for the GIE, with a private developer
(PIECO) responsible for all on-site aspects under the terms of its
lease with the PA. The role of the PA is to facilitate the
provision of necessary off-site infrastructure, and to put in place
appropriate laws and regulations along with the institutions needed
to implement them.
Environmental Category
12.     An environmental assessment has been carried out and several
issues were identified as requiring mitigation. The project's
technical design has been modified where necessary in light of
issues raised. In particular, the technical solutions retained for
the water, stormwater management, and wastewater sub-components
have all been designed bearing in mind the need to protect the
fragile Gaza aquifer, and will be implemented to international
standards. Prospective tenants will be required to abide by the
- 4 -



standards set in an environmental manual prepared specifically for
the GIE. Heavy polluting industries will not be allowed at the GIE,
due to the limited water and wastewater treatment capabilities and
solid waste disposal facilities. This project has been classified
in Category A.
13.     The environmental manual has been prepared with guidelines
and procedures for approval of environmental permits for use in the
GIE. These focus inter alia on water and power supply, wastewater
effluent treatment and disposal, solid waste management, handling
and storage of hazardous materials, fuel/oil storage, noise and air
emissions. A technical assistance package has been designed to
strengthen the capacity of the newly created Palestinian
Environmental Authority (PEnvA), specifically in the areas of
environmental permitting, monitoring and enforcement.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 8, 1997.
- 5 -



