Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026048
Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
(Gaza Industrial Estate Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION As Administrator of 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
Dated March 24, 1998
TF 026048 
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1998, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza 
and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, 
as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and further amended by Resolution 96-11 
and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association (the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on 
February 3, 1997, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety 
million dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the net income of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
Page  2
(C)
Section 1 of Article II of the Interim Agreement envisages the election 
in Gaza and the West Bank of a council with legislative and executive authorities 
which shall, upon inauguration thereof, assume all powers, responsibilities, rights, 
liabilities and obligations of the Palestinian Authority; Section 1 of Article V of 
the Interim Agreement provides that the executive authority shall be bestowed upon a 
committee to be formed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of Article V of 
the Interim Agreement (the Palestinian Authority); and Section 5 (b) of Article IX of 
the Interim Agreement authorizes the Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct 
negotiations and, in certain cases described thereunder, sign agreements with states 
and international organizations for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority (the PA);
(D)
the PA has contracted from the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID Grant) in an aggregate amount of five million 
two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000) to assist in financing Parts A (i), A (iv) 
and C (i) of the Project, described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement dated July 9, 1997 (the USAID Grant Agreement), 
entered into between the PA and USAID;
(E)
Palestine Industrial Estate Company (PIECO) intends to contract from 
various sources (the PIECO Lenders) loans (the PIECO Lenders Loans) in an amount 
equivalent to thirty one million one hundred thousand dollars ($31,100,000) to finance 
Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the PIECO 
Lenders Loan Agreements) to be entered into between PIECO and the PIECO Lenders;
(F)
the PA has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
PA, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions” set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066 GZ), as amended, with the following modifications 
thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the 
Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to 
finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
Page  3
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of 
any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with 
the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall 
be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Assignment Agreement” means the agreement dated January 6, 1998, entered 
into between PADICO (as this term is hereinafter defined) and PIECO (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to which PADICO shall assign all of its rights and 
obligations under the Lease Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined) to PIECO 
in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the Assignment Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“Environmental Manual” means the PA’s manual, agreed with the 
Administrator, setting out the framework, criteria, requirements and other details for 
the carrying out of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Administrator;
(c)
“GIE” means the Gaza Industrial Estate located on public land in Gaza and 
leased by the PA, through MOI (as this term is hereinafter defined), to PADICO (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) under the agreement referred to under Section 1.02 
(d) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Lease Agreement” means the agreement dated August 7, 1996, entered into 
between the PA, through MOI (as this term is hereinafter defined), and PADICO (as this 
term is hereinafter defined) pursuant to which the PA shall lease to PADICO the public 
land referred to under Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement in accordance with the terms 
and conditions contained in the Lease Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time;
(e)
“MOI” means the Ministry of Industry of the PA;
(f)
“Other Assignment Agreements” means the agreements and understandings 
currently entered into, and those to be entered into in the future, between PADICO (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) and PIECO (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to which PADICO shall assign to PIECO all of PADICO’s rights and obligations 
under all of its agreements with the PA and other parties, other than the Lease 
Agreement, pertaining to the development and operation of the GIE, all in accordance 
with the terms and conditions contained in the Other Assignment Agreements, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
“PADICO” means the Palestine Development and Investment Company, a 
privately-owned company established and operating under the laws of Liberia and 
registered in the Company Registry in Monrovia, Liberia, on October 14, 1993, whose 
principal place of business is in Gaza;
(h)
“PENA” means the Palestinian Environment Authority, a public authority 
established and operating in the West Bank and Gaza pursuant to a Presidential Decree 
dated December 10, 1996, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)
“PIECO” means the Palestinian Industrial Estate Company, a 
privately-owned company established and operating under the laws in effect in the West 
Bank and Gaza and registered in the Company Registry in Gaza under number 563123124 on 
July 29, 1997, whose principal place of business is in Gaza;
(j)
“PIFZA” means the Palestinian Industrial and Free Zones Authority, an 
Page  4
autonomous public authority established and operating in the West Bank and Gaza 
pursuant to a law dated November 15, 1997, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(k)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be maintained pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter Agreement signed by 
the Administrator on June 20, 1997, and countersigned by the Borrower on June 25, 
1997;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(n)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the PA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A and C of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, open 
and maintain, in dollars, a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  5
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the PA to repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 
commencing June 15, 2008, and ending December 15, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on December 15, 2017, shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project, and shall cause PIECO to carry out Part 
B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of the Borrower and the 
Administrator, and shall cause the PA to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the PA 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the PA under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PA (i) to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the PA therein set 
forth; (ii) to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of Parts A and C of 
the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
Page  6
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the PA on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)The Borrower shall cause the PA to maintain, in respect of 
Parts A and C of the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of the PA and 
of the agencies of the PA responsible for carrying out Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to: (i) have the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) 
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the PA to: (i) maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the 
Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) 
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (g) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Lease Agreement, the Assignment Agreement or any one of the Other 
Assignment Agreements shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, assigned or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the PA to perform any 
of the Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PIECO or any successor entity 
thereto, or for the suspension of PIECO’s or said successor entity’s operations.
(c) 
The PIECO Lenders Loan Agreements shall have failed to become effective 
by June 30, 1998, or such later date as the Administrator may agree, provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the PA, PIECO or any 
successor entity thereto, as the case may be, shall establish to the satisfaction of 
the Administrator that adequate funds are available to the Project from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement or those of PIECO or any successor entity thereto under the PIECO Lenders 
Loan Agreements, as the case may be.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the PA to withdraw 
the proceeds of the USAID Grant, or the right of 
PIECO or any successor entity 
thereto to withdraw the proceeds 
of the PIECO Lenders Loans, shall have been 
suspended, canceled 
or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
Page  7
the agreement providing therefor; or (B) any of the PIECO Lenders Loans shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the PA, 
PIECO or any 
successor entity thereto, as the case may be, 
shall establish to the satisfaction 
of the Administrator that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring 
is not caused by the failure of the PA, PIECO or any successor entity 
thereto, as the case may be, to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the PA, PIECO or 
any successor entity thereto, as the 
case may be, from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement or 
those of PIECO, as the case may be, under the PIECO Lenders Loan Agreements.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that arrangements governing the movement of goods and access of people 
into, and out of, the GIE have been put in place so as not to impair the commercial 
viability of operations at the GIE; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the PA.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and the PA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the PA 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the PA is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
For the Administrator:
Page  8
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
For the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi 
Member of Executive Committee, PLO
Minister of Finance, PNA
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba 
Country Director and Resident Representative
West Bank/Gaza Program
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of Eligible
(Expressed in U.S.
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
   4,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(2)
Goods
   3,800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
     200,000
100%
and training
(4)
Operating Expenditures
     100,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of Project
   1,000,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
Page  9
    TOTAL                    10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than the parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency used in 
the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority or for goods or services supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “Operating Expenditures” means expenditures, on account of Parts 
A and C of the Project, for the rental of office space for the PCU, utility charges, 
and charges relating to the operation, maintenance and insurance of vehicles. 3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed two million three hundred forty 
thousand dollars ($2,340,000) equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and 
(2) on account of payments made before that date but after July 25, 1997. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for (i) goods, works and services under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent for goods, $500,000 equivalent for works, 
$100,000 equivalent for services with firms and $50,000 equivalent for services with 
individuals; and (ii) Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to generate employment in Gaza through the 
creation of economic conditions conducive to industrial investment and the provision 
of appropriate physical infrastructure for industrial activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Off-Site Infrastructure
Carrying out a program consisting of the construction of suitable off-site 
facilities to provide the GIE with services in the following areas: (i) water 
treatment and supply; (ii) wastewater treatment and sewage disposal; (iii) stormwater 
management; (iv) power supply; and (v) access roads.
Part B:
Site Development
Carrying out a program to develop the GIE site, consisting of the construction 
of factory buildings and an administration building, and the on-site distribution of 
infrastructure and services.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of expert services and 
training, to (i) support the operation of PIFZA and MOI and upgrade their 
institutional capabilities; and (ii) strengthen the capabilities of PENA in the areas 
of environmental permitting, standards monitoring and enforcement for industry.
*  *  *  *  *  * 
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding  
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate equivalent to $1,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall be 
advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide 
circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days 
between the date upon which the notification appears in the newspaper for the first 
time and the date upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding 
documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator's standard bidding 
documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United Nations Agencies 
operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested foreign contractors and suppliers 
shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be 
accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same 
time in public; (vii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; 
(viii) no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after 
the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations with the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) 
postqualification criteria shall, in the absence of a prequalification process, be 
explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,200,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with provisions 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with provisions 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Page  11
Works which must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee and costing $1,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services to strengthen the institutional capabilities of PIFZA under Part C (i) 
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services to strengthen the institutional capabilities of PIFZA under Part C (i) 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
Page  12
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services to strengthen the institutional capabilities of MOI under Part C (i) of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Contracts
Services to strengthen the institutional capabilities of PENA under Part C (ii) 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Overall Project Implementation 
1.
The Borrower shall cause the PA to vest the responsibility for implementing 
Parts A and C (i) of the Project in MOI and Part C (ii), as well as the environmental 
Page  13
aspects of the Project, in PENA. MOI shall be assisted in the carrying out of such 
responsibilities by PCU which shall be responsible, inter alia, for the coordination 
of the implementation of the Project and the supervision of the execution thereof.
2.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 
PA to: (a) maintain PCU, within MOI, with professional staff in adequate numbers, 
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Administrator, to 
coordinate, supervise and report to the Administrator on the execution of Parts A and 
C of the Project and the procurement of goods and services thereunder; (b) employ 
consultants, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, with qualifications and experience, under terms of reference and in 
accordance with time schedules acceptable to the Administrator, to assist in the 
carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project; and (c) ensure that training activities 
under Part C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs, 
including time-schedules for the implementation thereof, and criteria for the 
selection of candidates thereunder, agreed between the PA and the Administrator. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause the PA to establish, not later than September 30, 1997, 
and thereafter maintain, arrangements, satisfactory to the Administrator, pursuant to 
which PIECO shall implement Part B of the Project, such arrangements to include, inter 
alia, the obligation of PIECO to prepare and furnish to the PCU, for inclusion in the 
progress reports referred to in paragraph C of this Schedule, all information required 
to assess the progress in implementing Part B of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
4.
The Borrower, through the PA, shall cause PENA to: (a) carry out Part C (ii) of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency; (b) ensure implementation of all 
environmental aspects of the Project in accordance with the framework, criteria, 
requirements and other details set out in the Environmental Manual; and (c) prepare 
and furnish to the PCU, for inclusion in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 
C of this Schedule, all information required to assess the progress in implementing 
Part C (ii) and all environmental aspects of the Project, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
5.
The Borrower shall cause the PA, not later than December 31, 1998, to take all 
action necessary on its part to (a) transfer to PIFZA all of the responsibilities of 
MOI referred to under paragraph A.1 of this Schedule; and, thereafter (b) ensure that 
PIFZA shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
B.
Cost Recovery under Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall cause the PA to establish and collect, commencing not later 
than December 31, 2002, charges sufficient to recover from the beneficiaries of the 
services referred to under Part A of the Project the total amount of the recurrent 
costs of operating and maintaining the structures, systems and networks required to 
provide said services, all in accordance with guidelines agreed upon between the PA 
and the Administrator. 
C.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall cause PA to: (a) monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis, 
in accordance with indicators agreed with the Administrator, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator: (i) not 
later than March 31 and September 30 of each year until completion of the Project, 
commencing March 31, 1998, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of six (6) months 
preceding the date of such report, and (ii) not later than December 31, 2000, a 
mid-term report, integrating the data and other information contained in the reports 
prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said mid-term 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project during the period following such date; and (c) review with the 
Page  14
Administrator each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Administrator's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Page  15
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
