E-171
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PROJECT
ACTIVITX REPORT
No. 2S
Envircnmental Ass,essment for
the Gaza Industrial Estate Project
December 1996
Bob Davis, Team Leader
lyad Abumoghli        Sana Hamady
Frank Castaldi        Jonathan Hodgkin
Prepared for the USAID Mission for West Bank and Gaza, and
the Bureau for Asia and the Near East,
U.S. Agency for International Development
under EHP Activity No. 250-RC, Delivery Order # 22
Environmental Health Project
Contract No. HRN-5994-O-00-3037-o0, Project No. 936-5994
is sponsored by the Bureau for Giobai Programs, Field Support and Research
Office of Health and Nutrition
U.S. Agency for International Development
Washington, DC 20523



*                PREFACE
Between the time that this draft environmental assessment was prepared in early November and
its revision in mid-December, several developments occurred that the reader should be aware of,
First, a proposed "industrial estate authority" is being discussed by the donors and the Palestinian
Authority. It would provide for the intemal environmental controls recommended in this report.
These include controlling the numbers and kinds of industries and regulation of wastewater and
solid waste streams. Also, some variations on the alternatives delineated in this ;,port are briefly
addressed in this revised environmental assessment. These include disposal of the reverse
osmosis reject waters in the Wadi Gaza to avoid ocean disposal and to augment flows that
contribute to a wetland in the mouth of the Wadi Gaza (see Section 6.2.2).
In addition, discussion among the donor agencies has resulted in some developments that bear
upon the funding, and ultimage mitigation responsibiliries, of various aspects of the off-site
infrastructure. As of early December 1996, USAID has agreed to fund major improvements to
the Gaza NMunicipal Wastewater Treatment plant, which opens up the possibilirt of having the
plant serve as a backup, or possibly a complete replacement for, the proposed wastewater
treatment plant at the Gaza Industrial Estate (see Appendix J).
Tentatively, it appears that the wastewater and stormwater discharge controls will be the funding
responsibiliry of the World Bank, which means that the World Bank may be undertaking
additional analysis and developing additional mitigation measures beyond those proposed in this
USAID-fumded environmental assessment. In addition, the World Bank would be responsible for
funding the proposed roadway improvements. USAID would focus on the water supply and
power supply infrastructure elements, with cornmunications infrastructure supported by funding
from the Israelis.
-Bob Davis
December 19, 1996
.



CONTENTS
*   $            ABOUT THE AUTHORS ................................ vi
ACRONYMS ................................                                                      vii
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  ................................  Ix
I    INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE .1 
1.1    Introduction ......................................... ............
1.2  Purpose and Need for the Proposed Action .
2   LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK .    .                                         5
2.1    Legal Framework ................................................... 5
2.1.1  Laws Regarding Industrial Estates ........         ....................... 5
2.1.2   Environmental Control in the Gaza Strip .......        ................... 6
2.2    Institutional Arrangements Related to the GIE  .............. .                   8
y                         2.2.1   Ministry of Industry (MOI) ..........................                     8
2.2.2  Palestine Development & Investment Corporation (PADICO) .... ..... 8
2.2.3   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MIOPIC) .... ..... 8
2.2.4 Other Agencies with Responsibilities Related to Off-Site
Infrastructure ............................................... 9
2.3    Management of Off-Site Service          ..................................... 1 0
2.4    Israeli Institutions Concerned with the GIE .......        ...................... 11
0                        2.4.1  Transboundary Concerns .....................................I I
2.4.2  Provision of Water and Power ................................. 11
2.4.3  Israeli Government Environmental Agencies ......            ............... 12
2.5    Other International Donor Support to the GIE ...........         ................ 12
Si 3    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED ACTION AND ALTERNATIVES .13
I,
3.1 Project Overview                  ..13
3.2 Site Description                 ..14
3.3    Off-Site Infrastructure Components, Plans, and Alternatives.         .           1 5
3.3.1  Proposed Vehicular Access and Alternatives.1 8
3.3.2  Proposed Electrical Energy Provision and Alternatives .21
3.3.3  Proposed Water Supply Provision and Alternatives .25
3.3.4  Proposed Wastewater Treatment and Alternatives .29
3.3.5  Proposed StorTnwater Control and Alternatives .36
3.3.6  Proposed Solid Waste Disposal and Alternatives .36
3.3.7  Proposed Telecommunications Service and Altematives .37
3.3.8 The No-Action Altemative .38



4      DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING ENVIRONMENT                    ............................ 40
41    lClimate and MCetCeoology                  ................                   . 4C
4.2    TC,ieSuIa z-a iogy ............   .................................... 4-0
4.3  Geology and Soils ............                                                  41
4.4    Land Use ....................................................... 43
4.5    Air Quality and Noise ............................................. 44
4.6    Energy Supply .............................. 44
4.7    Hydrology and Water Availability ...................... ........ 45
4.8    Water Quality and Existing Treatment ....... .................... 46
4.9  Existing Solid Waste Management Practices .                                     48
4.10 Archaeological and Historical Resources .                                       49
4.11 Socioeconomic Conditions .                                                      49
S   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES .52
5.1 Vehicular Access Options               ..54
5.1.1 No-Action Alternative .54
5.1.2 Vehicular Access Proposed Action .54
5.1.3 Vehicular Access Option 1 .55
5.1.4 Vehicular Access Option 2 .55
5.1.5 Vehicular Access Option 3 .55
5.2 Water Supply Options                 ..57
5.2.1 No-Action Alternative .57
5.2.2 Water Supply System Proposed Action .57
5.2.3 Water Supply System Option 1 .59
5.2.4 Water Supply System Option 2 .59
5.2.5 Water Supply System Option 3 .60
5.3    Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management   .             .62
5.3.1   No-Action Alternative ..........................                      62
5.3.2 Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management
Proposed Action .63
5.4    Environmental Consequences and Mitigating Measures for Treated
Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal    ..65
.4.1 No-Action Alternative .65
5.4.2  Treated Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal Proposed Action  ...... 66
5.5    Solid Waste Disposal .............................................. 68
5.5.1  No-Action Alternative .............        .......................... 68
5.5.2 Proposed Action: Transfer of Solid Waste from the GIE
to the Gaza Landfill .   ......................................... 69
5.6  Telecommnunication Services .....................                                71
5.6.1  No-Action Alternative .............        .......................... 71
ii



5.6.2  Proposed Action: Dedicated Fiber-Optic Cable from the GCE
to the lE ........................................... 71
5.7    Provision of Electric Power ......................................... 73
5.7.1  No-Action Alternative .......................................3 .
5.7.2  Proposed Action .......................................... 74r
5.7.3  Option 1 .......................................... ,.,.¢.. 74
5.8    Environmental Impacts Associated with On-Site Activities ...............     . 74
5.8.1  Environmental Consequences of On-Site Activities .76
5.8.2  No-Action Alternative ..............I..        .............           76
5.8.3 Proposed Action Altemative .78
*            6      FINDINGS AND RECOMNIENDATIONS .............................                           82
6.1    General Findings and Mitigation Measures ........................... .        82
6.1.1  Most of the Off-Site Infrastructure Alternatives Are Not Clearly
Environmentally Superior to the Proposed Action  .....     ............ 82
6.1.2  The Need for a Full-Time, On-Site, Environmental Coordinator
at the GIE ..... . 83
6.1.3  Need for Tenant-Specific Environmental Review .84
6.1.4  The Need for a Front-End Archaeology Assessment .85
6.2    Findings and Recomnmendations for Specific Infrastructure Components ... 85
6.2.1 Roads and Transportation.                                               85
6.2.2 Water Supply .86
6.2.3  Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management .88
6.2.4  Treated Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal .89
6.2.5 Solid Waste Disposal.                                                   90
6.2.6 Provision of Electric Power .90
PHOTO LOG OF GIE SITE .93
APPENDICES
A.    References
B.    Scoping Session Meeting Minutes
C.    List of Invitees
D.    List of Attendees
E.     List of Persons Contacted by EA Team
F.     Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment
.            0 G.    Monitoring Plans for Archaeological Studies
H.    Considerations of PADICO's Proposed Emergency or Interim Phase Construction Plans
at the GIE
I.     Plant Species Identified on or Immediately Adjacent to the GIE Site
J.     Consideration of Use of the Gaza Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant to Treat
Wastewater from the GIE
o'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iii
0 E



FIGURES
1-1    General Location of Gaza Industrial Estate ................................... 2
3-i  I  P7P Inn dustrial EPstaqte Area  a.     ------                                    16
3-2    Gaza Industrial Estate Site Plan ...........................                      17
3-3    Proposed Access Roads ...........................                                 20
3-4    Proposed Electrical Power Plant (Off-Site) .23
3-5    Proposed Electrical Power Plant (On-Site) .24
3-6 Proposed Water Supply Plan .28
3-7  Proposed Wastewater Treatment Plant .31
3-8  Wastewater Treatment (Proposed Action) .32
3-9  Wastewater Treatment (Option 1) .33
3-10 Wastewater Treatment (Option 2).                                                    3 5
3-11 Proposed Telecommunications Plan .39
4-1 Land Use and Vegetation .42
4-2  Location of Archaeological Sites .57
5-1 GIE On-Site Plan .77
TABLES
3-1    Projected Industry Mix at the Gaza Industrial Estate  ............................   14
3-2  Technical Comparison of Road Alternatives .19
3-3  Summary Comparison of Alternatives .25
3-4    Summary Comparison of Alternatives (Total for First and Final Phases) .27
3-5  Summary Comparison of Alternatives .34
3-6    Summary Comparison of Telecommunication Alternatives .38
4-1  Geological History of the Gaza Strip .43
4-2    Water Characteristics of the Groundwater Aquifer .47
5-1    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Vehicular Access to the GIE .56
5-2    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Water Supply System .61
5-3    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater
Management .64
5-4    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Treated Wastewater and Stormwater
Disposal Methods .67
5-5    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Solid Waste Disposal .70
5-6    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Telecommunication Infrastructure .72
5-7    Comparison of Impacts Associated with Power Supply .75
5-8    Comparison of Impacts Associated with the Construction of On-Site Activities .     81
F-i    Possible Water Quality Standards for Industrial Use
F-2    Possible Character of Industrial Wastewater at GIE
F-3    Light to Medium Industries with Possible Occurrence of Certain Metals in Selected
Industrial Wastewater
iv



F'-4 Possible Pretreatzment Unit Operations for Organics and M\etals in Selected Industrial
_   ij           ~~~~Wastewater
w   ??'     ~~F-5   Gaza Industrial Estate Wastewater Suggested Pretreatment Limits
?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.,



ABOUT THE AUTHORS
Fnvirn mrned I   Se  en t Teamn 1 Leat'der 
Bob Davis          Environmental Assessment and Policy Specialist. BA., MA.
Mr. Davis has 20 years of experience in Environmental Analysis,
Environmental Policy, Air Pollution, and Environmental
Regulations and Standards.
Team Members
JyadAbunoghli      Environmental Assessment Specialist. B.Sc., Ph.D.
Dr. Abumoghli has 14 years of experience in Water Resources
Management, Water Quality Modelling, and Environmental Impact
Assessment.
Frank Castaldi     Industrial Process Specialist. B. S., ME., Ph.D.
Dr. Castaldi has 25 years of experience in Water Supply, Industrial
Wastewater Treatment, and Hazardous Solid Waste Management.
Sana Hamady        Environmental Assessment Specialist. B. S., M S.
Ms. Hamady has 10 years of experience in Pollution Prevention,
Environmental Assessment and Auditing. Wastewater Treatment,
and Environmental Training.
Jonathan Hodgkin   Civil and Environmental Engineer. B.Sc., B.A.
Mr. Hodgkin has 16 years of experience in Civil Engineering,
Water Supply, Sanitation, Institutional Development, and Water
Resource Evaluation.
On-Site Support    Center for Engineering and Planning, Gaza.
P.
vi



ACRONYMS
BOD         Biochemical Oxygen Demand
dBA         A-weighted decibels
EA          Environmental Assessment
EIF         European Investment Bank
EPD         Environmental Planning Directorate
EU          European Union
GCE         Gaza Central Exchange
GDP         gross domestic product
GIE         Gaza Industrial Estate
IEC         Israeli Electric Company
IFC         International Finance Corporation
KV          kilovolt
m3          cubic meters
MOH         M/inistry of Housing
MOI         Ministry of Industry
NMOPIC      Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MPT         Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
MW          megawatt
PA          Palestinian Authority
vii



PADICO       Palestinian Development & Investment Corporation
PEA          Palestinian Electric Authority                                             I
PIESZA      Palestinian Industrial Estate and Service Zone Authority
PWA          Palestinian Water Authority
RBC         rotating biological contractors
RO          reverse osmosis
RUPD         Rural and Urban Planning Directorate
SAR         sodium absorption ratio
SBR         sequencing batch reactors
SFB         standard factory buildings
TDS          total dissolved solids
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID        U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization
viii



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
0
Introduction and Purpose
In an effort to support the Middle East peace process, the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID), the World Bank, and possibly other donors are proposing to financially
support the development of off-site infrastructure for the proposed Gaza Industrial Estate (GIE)
in the Gaza Strip. Because of the urgency of this project, this Environmental Assessment (EA)
has been conducted on a "fast-track" basis. A five-person EA team prepared thits draft on-site
over a three-week period in late October and early November. An EA is required before USAID
and the World Bank can commit funds to an industrial project under their respective project
funding guidelines (22 CFR 216 for USAID, and Operational Direction 4.00 for the World
Bank). A scoping meeting, attended by some 50 persons in Gaza, was held to identify perceived
impacts and concerns by various individuals that might be affected or have expertise related to
the proposed project.
As discussed in Chapter 1, the general purpose of the project is to promote economic
development in the Gaza Strip through the development of an industrial estate (industrial park)
that would promote labor-intensive industries. The unemployment rate has been estimated at
greater than 50% for the Gaza Strip. The proposed GIE would result in the employment of up to
22,000 persons in some 250 industrial firms at a site on the border with Israel (about 5 km south
of the center of Gaza City). The GIE is proposed as the first of nine industrial estates in Gaza and
the West Bank.
Legal, Regulatory, and Institutional Framework
As described in Chapter 2, the peace accords between Israel and the Palestinians have resulted in
a Palestinian Authority (PA) that has limited self-government over the Gaza Strip. During the
past three years, the PA has begun to organize with the establishment of various ministries. The
Ministry of Industry (MOI) plays a key role in the development of the GIE, although the site will
be developed and operated by a private firm, the Palestinian Development & Investment
Corporation (PADICO).
Under a written agreement between MIOI and PADICO, PADICO will provide certain on-site
infrastructure to serve the future tenants at the GIE while MOI, through funding from USAID
and the World Bank, will construct certain off-site infrastructure components: roads, water
supply, wastewater and stormwater treatment and management, telecormmunications, and
electricity. MfOT heads up an Interministerial Comrnittee (the Off-Site Infrastructure Unit) to
coordinate the PA's efforts to establish the GIE. Draft legislation before the Palestinian Council,
(the elected legislative body for Gaza and the West Bank), would create the Palestinian Industrial
Estate and Service Zone Authority (PIESZA), which would ultimately promote and regulate
industrial estates, including the GIE.
A major factor affecting environmental impacts and mitigation related to the GIE is the fact
that there are currently no statutes and regulations that mandate environmental controls for new
ix



and existing industries. The Environmental Planning Directorate (EPD) within the Ministry of
Plannin    U and  Intelmational Cooperaf':on- - is staffed t-witn environmentai professionals and is  *
ucgiialiuig tLU .IIiU ci urafL regulaLions that wouid be considered once the Palestinian Council has  w
passed the environ-mental framework law, which was proposed in early 1995.
Chapter 2 describes the many PA entities and city of Gaza agencies that could have some
involvement with the GIE. Although representatives from the Israeli government did not attend
the scoping meeting, they have comrnmunicated concerns related to transboundary effects
(stormwater runoff, odors, chlorine gas handling, and groundwater withdrawals).
The Proposed Action and Its Alternatives
Technically, the proposed action is for USAID to provide up to approximately US $6 million in
grants and for the World Bank to provide a yet-to-be determined loan for funding the off-site
infrastructure components. From an EA analytical perspective, the proposed action is the
construction and operation of each of the proposed infrastructure components (based on
consultant reports provided to the EA team). GIE on-site activities are addressed but are not the
focus of this assessment. Alternatives exist for each off-site infrastructure component. These
include optional approaches, conceptual designs, or routing. The scope of this EA is restricted to
off-site infrastructure only; on-site activities are not part of the proposed action.
Chapter 3 describes the GTE project plans, in general, and each individual infrastructure
component and its alternatives specifically. PADICO plans to develop the GIE in three phases.
Approximately 60% of the total required infrastructure and approximatelv 25% of the tenant
buildings would be in place by the end of the first phase.
Recently PADICO proposed an accelerated construction schedule that would begin in
December 1996 and would proceed without outside donor funding. As this emergency or interim W
phase would not be funded by USAID or the World Bank, these plans were not the focus of the
EA. However, because activities conducted under this phase would affect the environment and
are integrally connected to the overall GIE, the EA team has prepared a brief analysis of this plan
as it existed the first week of November 1996 (see Appendix H). A short description of the
proposed action for each infrastructure component is included later in this executive summary
along with any significant impacts and major uncertainties that are associated with it.
Description of Existing Environment
Chapter 4 describes the existing environment in the region and at the site that would potentially
be affected by tle proposed action. Some key points related to the assessment from this section
are as follows:
Water Availability and Quality
By far the most salient feature regarding the environment of the Gaza Strio is its increasingly
scarce and threatened water supply. Gaza relies almost entirely on groundwater drawn from the
shallow aquifer; there are no freshwater perennial streams, lakes, or other surface waters. The
shallow aquifer ranges in thickness from 120 meters near the coast to 10 meters in the east and is
x



often only a few meters below the surface (although at the site it is approximately 50 or more
meters below the surface). Because it is near the surface, is near the Mediterranean, is underlain
by a saline aquifer (often existing in lenses floating on brackish waters), and is not protected
from environrnental degradation, the shallow aquifer is vulnerable to declining water levels, salt
water intrusion, and contamination from agricultural and industrial activity.
The estimates of the aquifer's renewable yield range from 25 to 80 million cubic meters per
year. With annual withdrawals estimated (several years ago) at 1 10 million cubic meters per
year, it is clear that the aquifer is being overexploited, impacting availability and quality (salt
water displacement).
The qualicy of more than half of the water that replenishes the aquifer is poor.-mainly as a
result of irri-ation return tlows (excess nitrogen) and domestic wastewater infiltration. Existina
wastewater treatment in the study area consists of the Gaza Municipal Wastewater Treatment
Plant, which is overloaded and only marginally effective.
The major source of groundwater is rainfall. On average, approximately 40% of the total
rainfall replenishes the groundwater with the remaining 60% lost to evaporation. This suggests
that strategies that would recharge the aquifer with fresh water could be as important as demand
reduction.
Other Elements of tlhe Existing Environment
The site is cleared with bare ground and some scrubby shrubs and groundcover. Only one tree is
on-site. Some vegetation grows along two of the site boundaries. There are no sensitive
biological habitats or rare and threatened species known to be on-site or nearby. Biological
resources were not considered to be an issue by the EA team, the scoping meeting attendees, or
the donors.
The site is a former airstrip built by the British during the 1 940s when they controlled
Palestine. Although it is publicly owned by the PA, nearby residents have used it for subsistence
gardens and graz ngJ. The land use surrounding the site is mainly agricultural: olive groves, row
crops, and pasture. There are some structures, owned by the PA, on the northwest side of the site
that were formerly hangars associated with the airstrip. The airstrip itself has been converted into
the back-to-back goods exchange where goods being shipped from the Gaza Strip into or through
Israel are inspected.
The site, and indeed most of Gaza, is underlain by deep sandy soils. Where water is available,
Gaza soils and climate are well-suited for agriculture. Citrus fruits have long been a mainstay of
its economy.
Compared to other environmental issues, air quality is not a priority. No ambient data were
available. The EA tearn observed, and EPD staff confirmed, that particulate matter from
disturbed surfaces is the pollutant of most concern. Not much heavy industry exists in the Gaza
Strip, and the region is well-ventilated by breezes from the Mediterranean. The climate is semi-
arid and temperate with a distinct rainy season. Almost half of the rainrhll (estimated at
approximately 300 to 400 mm at the site) occurs in December and January.
There are no indigenous sources of energy in the Gaza Strip. All of the electricity is imported
from Israel. A large combined cycle power plant has been proposed for Gaza that would
xi



ultimately provide power for much of the area including the GIE. However, this power would not
be available over the short term.
There are no known archaeological resources at the site. Since it has not been surveyed, it is
possiblie that some mav be present viven the many mille.nnia of huar, hah,-i^n in this region.
The population of the Gaza Strip is approaching one million persons. More than half of the
inhabitants are descendants of refugees from the 1948 Arab-Israeli War and subsequent wars.
Many of the workers have been historically employed in Israel in low-paying jobs in the
construction and service sector. With frequent and long border closings in the last several years,
the unemployment rate is estimated to be above 50%.
Assessment of Impacts
The EA team evaluated each of the proposed infrastructure components and the alternatives
identified by the consultants. As described in Chapter 5, 14 potential impacts and areas of
concern (identified primarily at the scoping meeting) were the basis for the evaluation. Impacts
associated with construction or operation of specific infrastructure components, or the GIE in
general, that were considered to be significant or uncertain are discussed below. As required by
USAID and World Bank guidelines, the team also compared the proposed action against a no-
action alternative. The no-action alternative was defined as the ultimate use of the site as an
industrial area (so designated by the PA) but without adequate off-site infrastructure or
environmental controls.
Vehlicular Access, Telecommunications, and Electric Power Supply Options
None of the proposed options for vehicular access, telecomnmunications, or electric power supply
appear to result in significant impacts. As with all of the options that involve disturbance and
covering of the surface, there are uncertainties regarding damage or irretrievable loss of
archaeological resources. Also, several mitigation measures and standard precautions are
identified to ensure that the construction and operation proceed without significant impact.
Water Supply
The proposed option for providing water to the site is to drill four 120 meter-deep wells into the
brackish water aquifer (beginning in Phase I at 1,100 m3 per day). This would meet all of the
site's water demands. Potable water supplies would be provided through the use of reverse
osmosis to supply 400 rnm per day in Phase I and ultimately 800 m3 per day. Reject waters (or
brine), which would amount to 100 m3 per day (Phase I) and 200 m3 (Phase III), would be
trucked initiallband piped eventually for disposal in the Mediterranean through a dedicated
ocean outfall. Another option would be creation or enhancement of a wetland at the mouth of the
Wadi Gaza. Other alternatives considered included recycle of wastewater and use of water from
the Israelis (Mekerot) for all or some of the supply. The proposed action poses the potential for
long-term adverse impacts to the brackish aquifer water availability from possible overdrafts and
reduced water quality from increasing salinization due to saltwater intrusion. The potential for
cross contamination of the less saline upper aquifer and the deeper more saline brackish water
also exists. All of the other alternatives had similar drawbacks. The use of Mekerot water appears
xii



to offer the benefit of reducing the need for withdrawals. However, questions over the orig,in,
quality, and alternative uses of the Israelis' water make the benefits of this alternative more
uncertain.
JVastewvater Treatment and Stormwsvater AManagement
All of the wastewater treatment options are based on the concept of individual pretreatment of
wastewaters from industrial tenants to proposed specified effluent quality limits (discussed in
more detail in Appendix F). Firms with effluents composed of or similar to domestic (sanitary)
wastewater would not have to pretreat their effluents. Following pretreatment, the streams from
each tenant would be combined and sent to end-of-pipe treatment consisting of tcombination of
wastewater screening, equalization, biological treatment, post-equalization, tertiary filtration, and
chlorination. For all options, stormwater would be collected and combined with the treated
wastewater effluent for conveyance to application at an agricultural reuse and groundwater
recharge site.
Provided that the pretreatment limits are observed, this approach would be largely beneficial
in that the wastewater and stormwater could substitute for water currently being withdrawn from
the aquifer by farmners and would also result in some direct recharge. No adverse impacts were
identified.
Solid Waste
Assuming that current plans for a separate cell for hazardous waste disposal is developed at the
Gaza Municipal Landfill, the EA tearn determined that there would be no significant adverse
impacts from the collection and disposal of solid wastes at the GIE.
On-Site Activities and Overall GIE Effects
In addition to evaluating each infrastructure element proposed for USAID and World Bank
funding, the EA team broadly considered the GIE as a whole to include on-site activities. As
noted earlier, the water demands from the 250 firms will most likely cause significant adverse
impacts on the aquifer resulting in increased saltwater intrusion. Conversely, employment during
the construction and, especially, the operation of the GIE will have significant socioeconomic
benefits. There is some uncertainty regarding the air quality implications from the mix of
industries and the health and safety of the workers given that no occupational standards are in
place.
Recommended Mitigation Measures
Mitigation measures that apply to all infrastructure items or to the GIE as a whole are discussed
briefly in the next section, while mitigation measures that relate to specific infrastructure items
are discussed in the following section. Chapter 5 identifies many other mitigation measures for
minor impacts.
xiii



AMitigation Measures that Apply to GIE as a Wh/ole
Given the lack of a regulatory system that would set and enforce environmental standards and
discharge limits, the FA teram recommends that there be aful-time. on-site, environ-mrentall
-t- at> leTG. Th- envirerr ental      w    bi wvulu iU a  eed cviiuiuleiitai
professional who would be able to balance the need for a viable and profitable GIE with the need
for environmental controls and protection. Consequently, the selection of this individual should
involve both PADICO and the EPD and possibly other ministries. It is recommended that the
environmental coordinator position, and his or her support staff, be funded by the World Bank or
another donor organization partly to ensure that the function is adequately funded and partly to
avoid possible conflicts of interest. The environmental coordinator would be responsible for
conducting and submitting reports on the environmental monitoring results and the progress
toward attaining the mitigation measures.
In addition to an environmental coordinator, some form of predicting and tracking the
environmental discharges from each of the tenant firms is needed. This could be a simple
questionnaire that is completed by the owner or the operator as a part of a pre-leasing review
and/or it could serve as a form of intemal permitting, which could become the basis of
monitoring compliance and auditing. At a minimum, strict adherence and monitoring to ensure
proper wastewater pretreatment would be required. The questionnaire would include estimates of
the number of employees, process description, raw materials and chemicals used and stored,
pretreatment process to be employed, estimates of solid and hazardous wastes, and other
residuals.
Given the potential for archaeological finds in this region of the world, an archaeological
survey should be conducted prior to any further disturbance of the site.
Mitigation Measures that Apply to Specific Infrastructure Itenms
Although there were no impacts predicted as a result of the construction and operation of roads,
eventually transportation could be an issue as more than 20,000 persons attempt to commute to
the GIE. The lack of parking spaces on site will force the great majority of the workers to use
mass transit. PADICO and the environmental coordinator should plan to ensure that the mass
transit is efficient, orderly, and inexpensive. It is recommended that the environmental
coordinator develop a transportation plan that would utilize private mass transit companies to
transport workers to the site. The plan should consider working with government officials to
make dedicated and protected bus stops, staggering work hours, and avoiding product shipments
and material deliveries during commuting times.
Long-term monitoring of the brackish water aquifer level and quality is recommended to
ensure that theAsupply of water to the GIE not result in overdraft of the aquifer. To moderate the
effects of brackish water overdraft and increased aquifer salinization, a program to reduce
industrial water use should be implemented at each industrial facility at the GTE. A combination
of wastewater reuse and the implementation of treatment in-place water conservation
technologies is recommended. Other water-conserving measures include the use of captured
stormwater runoff and economic incentives to increase water conservation.
The establishment of specific industrial wastewater pretreatment requirements is essential to
the wastewater treatment strategy at the GIE. Each tenant industry at the GIE should establish a
xiv



waste minimization program to reduce the pollutant loadings from the industrial site. This could
be accomplished through the creation of a pollution prevention program to also limit water use.
Hazardous waste handling and disposal requirem ents for the pretreatment process should be
established at each tenant industry. Monitoring of pretreatment effluents and residues is
recommended together with monitoring of stormwater. Finally, there should be effluent quality
criteria for sequencing batch reactor treatment to allow unencumbered use of this water for
agricultural irrigation and/or specific recharge.
Long-term monitoring of the chemistry of the freshwater (upper) aquifer should be
established in the area of agricultural use. Specific water quality criteria for groundwater
recharge need to be established to guarantee that pollutants in the water not exceSd water quality
levels for public acceptance. The agricultural lands where effluent irrigation is practiced should
be managed to moderate the sodium adsorption ratio so that soil permeability not be reduced. It
is recommended that there be monitoring of soil characteristics and plant yields in areas where
treated effluents are used for irrigation.
The establishment of a system of solid and hazardous waste collection and segregation at the
GIE is recommended to ensure that hazardous materials be kept separate from normal refuse and
nonhazardous solid wastes. A monitoring program is recommended to identify hazardous
constituents in the industrial wastes and sludges from the GIE. Finally, water quality criteria for
discharge of leachate from the Gaza Municipal Landfill should be established along with the
monitoring of the underlying groundwater and surface water runoff quality.
The use of the proposed 2.2 MW diesel electric power generator during the short term to
augment power supplies from Israel poses readilv mitigated noise and air quality impacts. To
avoid additional contamination to the groundwater, the diesel fuel storage tank should be an
above-ground structure on a concrete pad with secondary containment. To reduce electric power
demands, solar water heating for individual tenant domestic supplies should be encouraged along
with natural lighting. Photovoltaics may be cost-effective for exterior street lighting.
xv



0
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE
I.* I Introduction
This Environmental Assessment (EA) has been prepared to fulfill U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and World Bank requirements for evaluating environmental impacts
from projects that have been proposed for USAID and World Bank financial support. In an effort
to support the Middle East peace process, USAID, the World Bank, and possibly other
international donors propose to fund off-site infrastructure associated with the planned Gaza
Industrial Estate (GIE).
As shown in Figure I - 1, the GIE site is located near the border between Israel and the Gaza
Strip. The Gaza Strip is a part of territory that has been occupied by the Israeli government since
1967 but is currently undergoing a transition to self-rule by the Palestinians under the terms of
the Oslo Peace Accords.
An essential element of the peace accords is economic development to provide employment
for the Palestinian people. As a result, nine industrial estates have been planned for Gaza and the
West Bank (three in Gaza and six in the West Bank). The GIE would be the first of these and
will serve as a model for the planning and development of the others.
0                 The Palestinian Authority (PA), the U.S. government, and the World Bank ag,ree that there is
an urgent need to begin construction on the initial phases of the GIE as soon as possible. The
need to bring substantive relief to the more than 50% unemployment levels in Gaza is no less
essential than the symbolic importance of providing what various PA spokesmen have described
as a "sign of hope" for the Palestinian people. For these reasons, this EA process is being
conducted on a "fast-track" basis. This draft EA was prepared over a three-week period in late
October and early November 1996.
The GIE will be owned by the Palestinian Development & Investment Corporation
(PADICO), a private venture. Given the risks and uncertainties of the political and business
climate, analyses by the World Bank have shown that outside funding will be necessary for this
initial industrial estate to succeed (Ref. 3). The description and analyses in this EA are based on
several conceptual plans prepared by consultants to USAID and the World Bank (Refs. 9, 10, and
11) and on on-site observations, meetings, and discussions conducted by the EA team while in
the Gaza Strip between October 21 and November 7.
Following this introduction, Chapter 2 of this EA describes the legal, regulatory, and
institutional frarnework associated with this project including the roles and relationships of the
various agencies within the newly formed PA.



Mediter ranean                                    4 f SYL 
,TRIS                                                                              . - IRA,L
I .. . . . .
!~r . /L              ,~.                                                     ISRA FL
. TR IP                                s._.  ..... ... ........../.. 
E G'   '. . . . ..'' '.   ' ' '    /     ak p1                    .  ..-.....
0     50    1                 C) .A..  C..
_   \ 5CE~X DAN---- ; .Cekon
km
.. ' ' ''' ....
..  . .    ''......../                         &  
,..   ,   ~ .... ......f\_       a 
.C \....... ..... :rt             uri
. . . . . . . . . ,   .a l .b \ r 
..........     BoniyUrbanized Area
....... .... w\ox ...                                            IMain Road
EGYPT           N~J,N)Bondr
.......Ab...s.en                                                                         Locatfon of
& _   anGaza  Airond r t
hir\t vIk-zip
tuFF   /4>  +   &' } KhirtXct ikhzar                  i    ~ ~ ~~0   3        6 km
\   7\     /                                       !      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ApproximGte Scale
EGYPT                                 /
\                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure 1-1
\                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~General Location of
\                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gaza Industrial Estate



Chapter 3 describes in general the site location and the proposed project followed by specific
discussions on the various components of the off-site infrastructure that would be funded under
the proposed action.
The existing environrment-regionally and at the site-is described in Chapter 4. The
following environmental areas are included: climate, ecology, land use, air quality, noise, energy
supplies, hydrology and water availability, water quality, solid and hazardous waste
management, archaeological and historical resources, and socioeconomic conditions.
Chapter 5 describes how these environmental areas and the environmental issues raised
during the scoping process would be affected by the proposed action and the various alternatives
*        to the proposed action. This section is the core of the analysis. It describes impagts,
distinguishing between short-term and long-term, positive and negative, and significant and
minor. It identifies and compares the impacts of the various alternatives associated with the
infrastructural components. Mitigation measures are identified. (A mitigation measure is a meahs
of reducing, avoiding, or compensating for the identified impact.) This section also identifies
unresolved issues associated with the project and suggests environmentally preferable means of
resolving them.
Chaster 6 consolidates the recommended mitigation measures associated with the various
project alternatives and provides a general monitoring plan for ensuring that the mitigation is
accomplished and the unresolved issues are resolved.
Appendices are included to present the references used, scopina session results, and other
pertinent information.
1 .2 Purpose and Need for the Proposed Action
The proposed action is for USAID, the World Bank, and possibly other donors to provide
funding for the construction and possible initial operation of various off-site infrastructural
elements. It is important to note that the term "off-site infrastrucmre" is defined as a specific set
of ancillarv facilities that would be outside the funding scope of the private developers,
PADICO. The off-site infrastructure elements may or may not be outside the GIE property (some
will be both). These off-site elements include roads, electric power supply, storm water
management, wastewater treatment facilities, water supply facilities, solid waste disposal
facilities, and telecommunications facilities.
The general purpose of the proposed action is to promote economic development with an
emphasis on employment. The GIE will employ more than 20,000 persons when it reaches its
full industrial build-out. The GIE will be the first of several such industrial estates that will
provide employment and economic growth. As noted earlier, the need is urgent both from the
perspective of providing economic relief and as a tangible sign that there will be benefits
emerging from the peace process that will affect the everyday lives of the Palestinian people.
The Gaza Strip has a rapidly growing population approaching one million persons. More than
two-thirds of these residents are refugees (and their descendants) from the first Arab-Israeli war
in 1948 (Ref. 36, p.34). The Ministry of Industry (MOI) estimates unemployment in excess of
50% (Ref. 44). Many of those who do have work must travel to Israel for low-wage jobs in the
construction, service, and other sectors. When the Gaza-Israel border (referred to as the Green
3
.~



Line) is closed, as a result of threatened or actual disturbances, these jobs can be interrupted for
long periods of time.
Thc pcace process has been threatened by elemcnts on both sides that are opposed to accords.
>itLiucLiuonof the GIE wiii support the PA's efforts to reduce unrest among the people. This
unrest is attributed, in large part, to frustrations by the people regarding the pace of economic
progress that has been promised as an outgrowth of the peace process.
4



LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
This section on the leQal, regulatory, and institutional framework discusses the establishment,
operation, and management of industrial estates in Gaza and the West Bank; thi-framework for
environmental policy, regulation, monitoring, and enforcement; and the framework for provision
and management of off-site infrastructure services for the GIE.
2.1   Legal Framework
In accordance with the Declaration of Principles signed in September 1993, the PA has limiied
self-government over the Gaza Strip. The PA was established as a working entity in 1994. The
first elections leading to a functioning Palestinian Council took place in February 1996. The
process of establishing a set of laws for Palestinian governance of the Gaza Strip and the West
Bank has barely begun. The most important laws relating to industrial estates and environmental
protection have not yet been enacted.
2.1. 1    Laws Regarding Industrial Estates
*    fi          The current industrial estate is being developed by PADICO under an agreement with the PA
referred to as the lease agreement. By this agreement, the PA set aside 485,000 dunums to be
leased and developed by PADICO for the establishment of an industrial estate. PADICO agreed
to construct and operate the estate including provision of all on-site services for the firms
locating in the estate. According to the agreement, MOI is responsible for providing certain
infrastructure services to the site (off-site infrastructure) including water, wastewater disposal,
electrical power, external roads, and telecommunications lines (Ref. 36). This lease agreement
document was signed with a good faith understanding that many of the legal, regulatory, and
technical details would be resolved as the developer began developing the GIE site. As of
November 1, 1996, this was the only legally binding document between the PA and the
developer.
However, the legal framework for the creation of industrial estates and service zones is currently
being developed by the Interministerial Committee on Industrial Estates with the help of
consultants. When this law is enacted, it will establish the legal framework for management and
operation of industrial estates. The member organizations and advisors for the Inter-ministerial
Committee are as follows:
5



u Ministry of Industry (MOI)
*  Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC)
Minisr Lv of Public Works (vPW)                                               0
*  Ministry of Housing (MOH)
*  Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
* Palestinian Electric Authority (PEA)
* Invited consultants
* Dr. Amin Haddad - PADICO
*  Alla' Showa - Development Resource Center
*  Dr. A.kram Karmoul
Draft legislation (Ref. 39) has been prepared (draft 4, 10/3/96) and is being reviewed. The
legislation will formally create the Palestinian Industrial Estate and Service Zone Authority
(PIESZA) as an autonomous agency. As currently proposed, PIESZA will have 12 members, one
of whom will represent the appropriate environmental authority. One member will represent the
unions; another the Palestinian Chamber of Commerce; two the developers of industrial estates;
and two others the tenant firms within the estates.
The draft legislation setting up PIESZA addresses issues such as types and location of zones;
companies and exporters allowed to operate within these zones; permitting procedures; tax status
and incentives for companies within these zones; and developer and PIESZA responsibilities for
on- and off-site infrastructure, as well as PIESZA board composition and the administrative and
legal responsibilities of PIESZA. The current draft is largely silent on issues related to the
environment. The permitting process does require companies to describe the industrial processes
that will be used and all types and quantities of waste that will be generated. It also stipulates that
industrial wastes must comply with local mandates, rulings, and criteria. However, it does not
require any description of hazardous or toxic materials to be used as raw materials; how they will
be used and stored; or how worker safety will be assured. It does not require any estimate of the
volume of water that will be needed by the company for industrial purposes, the energy
requirements, or vehicle traffic. Although the draft legislation indicates that no existing laws
should be violated, no national or local environmental legislation has yet been enacted.
2.1.2    Environmental Control in the Gaza Strip
To date, no environmental laws have been formally approved by the Palestinian Council and
adopted by the PA. However, the Environmental Planning Directorate (EPD) of MOPIC has
taken the lead i; planning environmental safeguards. An emergency environmental protection
plan was developed in July 1995. Emergency structural plans were developed for water,
wastewater, and storrnwater management in that same period also. These plans have not been
formally approved, but most development projects, including the GIE project, are referring to
these plans for environmental issues. Although no statute for environmental protection has been
enacted, there is a proposed Palestinian law for the "Protection of the Environment." The
proposed law covers such items as the following:
6



X Environmental impact assessment
'A Environimental auditing
Facilities licensing, monitoring, inspection, and enforcement
W                v  Water and air quality protection
X Prevention and abatement of noise pollution
'  Management of hazardous waste and hazardous substances
i  Emergency preparedness and response
*  Management of solid waste
*  Management of domestic and municipal sewage
a  Protection of the marine environment
* Public participation in the regulatory process, information access
n Redress of environmental nuisances
* Research, training, and public education
Until this or other legislation has been passed, there is no legal authority needed to draft
environmental regulations, or monitor and enforce any environmental standards. At present, the
only legislation regarding the environment that can be enforced is that which has been written
into international agreements with the PA. The Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho
Area (Cairo, Nlay 4, 1994) known as the "Cairo Agreements" contains an annex (Annex II,
Article 1) that requires the adoption of laws and regulations related to environmental issues such
as air, water, and sea pollution; treatment of solid and liquid wastes; and use and handling of
hazardous substances including pesticides and insecticides, which could have transboundary
effects. The "Washington Agreernents" signed in September 1995 as part of the peace process
provide more details regarding the obligations of both the PA and the Israeli Governrment.
However, these agreements provide only policv and broad guidelines regarding the handling of
environmental matters.
On a more limited scope, other PA agreements may also contain environmental provisions.
For example, intemational lending agencies may stipulate certain conditions for loan approval
and disbursement. Once the PA signs these agreements, they should have the force of law (Ref.
42). These conditions may include adherence to specifically recommended international
standards for water quality, sewage effluent, and management of hazardous substances for
project activities. To date, no known agreements directly address environmental issues related to
the GIE.
In the absence of a legal basis for creating, monitoring, and enforcing environmental
standards, no standards have been formally approved and adopted. In addition, no agency within
the PA has been formally given the responsibility to develop, monitor, or enforce any standards
that may exist as part of intemational agreements. Discussions with EPD suggest that until
regulations are in place, activities should abide by international standards such as World Health
Organization (WHO) standards.
7



2.2   Institutional Arrangements Related to the GIE
The GTIF is to be a privateiv financed and dev_.!nncH      Tt      I . r    L'-  .  ctory
locations and site services for a variety of private sector tenants. Off-site services including
roads, electrical power, telecommunications service, water supply, wastewater treatment, and
stormwater control will be provided or coordinated by the PA through its ministries and
agencies. At present, the Off-Site Infrastructure Group is coordinating the provision of off-site
services. The group is chaired by 1MO, and members represent interested ministries and agencies
as well as the private site developer, PADICO. Although eventually PIESZA would regulate the
industrial estate, the GIE is being developed in the absence of regulations and will serve as a
model for as many as eight future industrial estates in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The details
of management of off-site infrastructure services for the industrial estates is not clearly stated in
the draft PIESZA legislation. Discussions on how and who will operate and maintain off-site
service equipment remains uncertain. A brief discussion of the current role of each agency is
provided in the following paragraphs. Given that the PA is in the first stages of fully defining the
roles of each of its ministries and agencies, changes of responsibility, jurisdiction, and authority
are likely to take place as the GIE project is impiemented.
2.2.1     Ministry of Industry (MOI)
MOI has taken the lead role for the PA in developing plans for the GIE. It currently chairs the
Off-Site Infrastructure Group and the Interministerial Committee, which has focused its efforts
on establishing the GIE and developing a legal framework for managing and operating industrial
estates and service zones in Gaza and the West Bank. The committee's primary focus is
employment creation.
2.2.2    Palestine Development & Investment Corporation (PADICO)
PADICO is a private business that was established in 1993 to create investment opportunities
and channel these investments into the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. PADICO and its affiliates
provide services in areas such as tourism, real estate, housing, and industrial investments. The
company is the developer of the GIE and will construct all on-site infrastructure that will
interface with the off-site infrastructure. PADICO also participates as a member of the Off-Site
Infrastructure Group and as an advisor on the Interministerial Committee that is working on the
draft legal framework for establishing PIESZA.
2.2.3    Ministry of Planning and International Cooperaton (MOPIC)
MOPIC is composed of two divisions. Only the planning division has any role in the planning
and management of the GIE. Both EPD and the Rural and Urban Planning Directorate (RUPD)
within the Planning Division have roles related to the GIE. The Director General of the Planning
Division is a member of the Interministerial Committee reviewing nontechnical issues related to
the GIE.
8



EPD has been tasked with environrmental planning within the Gaza Strip. Much of the work
of the past several years has been in completing baseline studies of environmental conditions
within Gaza. EPD works closely with other ministries and agencies and with the donor
V                comrnmunity in coordinating a number of important environmental initiatives. It now appears that
EPD will act in the future as a monitoring, regulatory, and enforcement body, but as indicated
above, the legislation clearly defining these roles and the resources necessary to carry them out is
lacking. Specific issues regarding jurisdiction, monitoring of environmental laws and regulations,
and enforcement have yet to be resolved. EPD coordinates with other ministries and agencies on
environmental issues. Most notably, EPD works with the Environmental Department of the
M inistry of Agriculture; the Environmental Health Department of the Ministry dT Health and
several municipalities within the Gaza Strip; and appropriate departments within PWA, MOII,
and MOI.
RUPD is responsible for broad physical planning within the Gaza Strip. RUPD was consulted
in the GIE site selection process.
2.2.4    Other Agencies with Responsibilities Related to Off-Site Infrastructure
A number of other PA agencies have participated in the development of the GIE. Several of these
have key roles related to planning, construction, and/or operation and maintenance of off-site
infrastructure. These agencies and their roles are described in the following subsections.
*  MIinisrry of Public Works (MfPW)
MPW is responsible for all public works within the Gaza Strip. Its major role in the GIE
project relates to roads and traffic planning. MPW will be responsible for planning and
*3   ;             building new roads and upgrading existing roads related to the GIE off-site infrastructure.
,W '         MPW has the equipment and expertise for planning, building, and maintaining roads. It also
oversees roads-related projects that are financed and constructed by other agencies and
international donors. It appears that once off-site road construction is complete, MPW will be
responsible for maintaining these roads and their rights-of-way.
*  Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
PWA has been created as a planning and regulatory body for managing the water resources
and wastewater treatment within the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It is not now, nor will it be,
an implementing agency. Currently water supply systems and wastewater treatment facilities
(to the dearee that they exist) within the Gaza Strip are managed by technical departments
within the local councils. Future plans call for the creation of autonomous private sector
:           water supply and sewerage agencies to take on these roles on a fee-for-service basis. PWA
has been integrally involved with the planning of the GIE as it relates to water purnping and
use. Once the off-site infrastructure is complete, PWA plans to monitor water pumping rates
to ensure that the limits agreed upon are adhered to. PWA will not operate and maintain the
water and wastewater systems supplying these services to the GIE, but it is not yet clear who
will.
9
4 



* Palestinian Electric 4uthority (PEA)
PEA has responsibility for managing electrical power distribution and use within the Gaza
Q+,A. T+.t-  1 A
Sp   s the lead agency fotcusing on provision of electrical power for th;c GIE. At this
A, hE has agreed to provide power to the site and will, if asked, construct all electrical
lines and appurtenances related to the electrical off-site infrastructure. If contractors are
employed to construct these lines, PEA will have inspection and approval responsibility to
ensure that work is properly completed. PEA also appears to be ready to install, operate, and
maintain any electrical power generation facilities associated with the GIE.
n  Ministry of Post and Telecommunications (iVLfPT)
MPT is responsible for operating and maintaining the telecommunications network within
Gaza. MPT will be responsible for establishing and maintaining a reliable link from the GTE
site to the Gaza Central Exchange. At this stage, MPT has agreed to connect cables to the
site.
*  Municipality of Gaza
The GIE falls outside the present boundaries of the NIunicipality of Gaza. However, the
municipality may provide certain services related to the GIE, particularly those related to
solid waste disposal. The municipality operates a landfill site just south of the GIE site and is
now establishing a hazardous waste repository. A verbal agreement exists that the
municipality will collect and dispose of solid wastes from the GIE site.
The Nfunicipality of Gaza may also play a role in facilitating the interim phase of the
project, which has been planned to provide water and wastewater services for the first tenants
of the GIE prior to the completion of the off-site infrastructure. The municipality has agreed
to provide water to the site and to accept untreated wastewater into the municipal system on a
temporary basis.
2.3 Management of Off-Site Services
The agreement signed by MOI and PADICO outlines the responsibilities of both parties for the
GIE. It stipulates that MOI is committed to provide certain infrastructure services such as water,
wastewater disposal, standby electricity generation, extemal access roads, and telecommunica-
tions services to the site and that PADICO, the site developer, will pay for these services.
However, it is not clear, in all cases, who will operate and maintain equipment to provide these
services. For example, current plans call for brackish water to be pumped to storage for industrial
use with some "ortion treated using a reverse osmosis process for meeting potable water needs.
MOI has not made it clear what agency or entity will operate and maintain the pumps or who will
operate and maintain the reverse osmosis plant. As indicated above, PWA is not an
implementing agency and does not have the capacity to fulfill this function. The GIE lies outside
municipal boundaries so the municipality has no obligation to operate the water supply facilities.
MOI may choose to develop the capacity to support provision of off-site services within the
ministry or contract with the firms in the private sector to provide services, paying for these
services through fees collected from PADICO.
10



The draft legal frarnework for the establishment of PIESZA is also silent regarding the
management of off-site services. However, as constituted, it does not appear that PIESZA will
have the capability to manage provision of off-site services. Although there has been discussion
of these off-site service management issues, they remain to be fully resolved.
2.4   Israeli Institutions Concerned with the GIE
The GIE is located adjacent to the "green line" or boundary with Israel. For this reason, and
because the Israelis provide all of the electrical power and some of the fresh water to Gaza, this
section discusses potential Israeli involvement in the GIE related to transboundary concems and
power and water provisions.
2.4.1    Transboundary Concerns
As discussed earlier in this section, the Cairo and Washington peace accords both address
environmental obligations for the PA and the Israelis. Generally, the accords-stress the
importance of minimizing transboundary environmental impacts and the need for consultation
between the PA and Israel when these issues arise. USAID has been handling the communication
with the Israelis with regard to the GIE. The conduit for communication within the Israeli
government has been Mr. Shmoul Kantor of the Mekorot Water Co. Ltd, the chief supplier of
water within Israel. USAID staff invited the Israelis to the scoping meeting conducted on
October 28. Although they did not attend, Mr.Kantor sent a memorandum (Ref. 41) to John
Starnes of USAID on October 27, with the following Israeli comments related to transboundary
issues:
0                n  Regarding the use of chlorine for the wastewater treatmnent plant, chlorine should be handled
according to Israeli regulations.
* Whether or not the 1 00-meter-wide security zone on the Gaza side of the green line can be
used for the stormwater or other impoundments has not been resolved. Mr. Kantor has
referred the resolution of this issue to Mr. Hillel Adiri of the Ministry of Agriculture.
n The Israeli standards for treated wastewater reuse will be submitted to USAID. The Israelis'
concern relates to odors. If odors are likely, this issue needs to be addressed with Israeli
environmental institutions.
n The drainage from the GIE site flows toward the green line and Israel. Israel is concerned
about stormwater controls at the site to avoid problems on the Israeli side.
2.4.2     Provision of Water and Power
The Israeli Mekorot Water Corporation is committed to providing five million cubic meters of
water per year to Gaza under the terms of the peace accords. The Israeli Electric Corporation
provides bulk power to Gaza through 11 feeder lines.
11
*'



2.4.3    Israeli Government Environmental Agencies
rze X>r-Me! ni8-ntyrf Pnvirnlrnl^-ln h-;c O-ve-?r1eflls '     a     nle,- r+l nnring and 
enforcement.
2.5   Other International Donor Support to the GIE
Other donors have made commitments or have expressed interest in the GIE project. The World
Bank is committed to collaborating with USAID to support the provision of off-site services. The
International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have
expressed interest in participating as investors in the project. As clearly as can be determined, no
firm comrnmitments have been made by the IFC or the EIB. However, the World Bank's
commitment is firm, even if the financing requirements are not yet clear (Ref. 42). The World
Bank expects to support the later phases of off-site infrastructure development and required
supporting activities. This may include technical assistance, training, and equipment to support
certain mitigation measures and environmental monitoring, auditing, and compliance to ensure
the proper management and operation of the GIE facility (Ref. 42).
12
12 ~        ~



*                  7   DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED
ACTION AND ALTERNATIVES
This chapter presents an overview of the proposed GIE project and a site descrivtion. It also
summarizes the proposed actions and alternatives that have been described in previous studies
for the development of the off-site infrastructure (Refs. 7, 8, and 9). Specifically, the off-site
infrastructure components discussed include roads, electricity, stormwater management,
wastewater treatment, water supply, solid waste disposal, and telecommunications. The
environmental evaluation and comparison of aiternatives are provided in Chapter 5.
3. 1 Project Overview
USAID West Bank and Gaza is proposing to support the generation of new jobs in the Gaza Strip
by assisting in the provision of off-site infrastructure to serve the proposed GIE. The GIE will
provide technical assistance and design services related to the off-site infrastructure (access
roads, water supply, wastewater treatment, storn drainage, electrical service, telecommunica-
tions service, and solid waste disposal). It is important to note that the term "off-site
infrastructure" is defined as the specific set of ancillary facilities that would be outside the
funding scope of the private developer, PADICO. The off-site infrastructure may or may not be
outside of the GIE property (some facilities will be both).
A portion of the off-site infrastructure (up to US$6 million) would be constructed under the
USAID-financed project with the remainder of the construction to be financed by the World
Bank and, possibly, other donors.
The GIE project and other future industrial estate and service zone projects are the result of
the PA commitment to induce economic growth and to attract local, regional, and international
investors. The development of the GIE is expected to create more than 20,000 jobs in 250 tenant
firms by the time the estate is completed. Plans for the development of the estate were initiated in
an agreement between the PA, who is represented by MOI, and PADICO.
PADICO was established in 1993 to create investment opportunities and channel these
investments into the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. PADICO and its affiliates provide services
in areas such as tourism, real estate, housing, and industrial investrnents.
PADICO's development plans for the site show that 70% of the site will be industrial and
30% will be roads and offices. The built-up area will represent 80% of the site area. A three-
phase approach is planned for the implementation of the project. Phase I will provide
approximately 60% of the total required infrastructure and 25% of the built-up area. An
additional 20% of the infrastructure and 25% of the built-up area are planned for Phase II. The
final phase will culminate with the completion of the last 20% of the infrastructure and the
remaining 50% of the built-up area. As shown in Table 3-1, a mix of industries is planned for the
13



GIE. However, the specific type of industry within the broad categories shown in Table 3-1 has
not yet been established. Areas onl the site have alkcady bcen allocated to small,l medium, and
large factories; administration and public service buildings; special functions; utilities
connections; and open areas.
As a result of social and political pressures to provide immediate employment, an interim
phase (considered to be part of Phase I) has been planned by PADICO for completion by the end
of January 1997. This interim phase will include installation of a fence; construction of several
standard factory buildings; construction of an administration building; and the development of
several infrastructure components. PADICO representatives stated that several tenailts have
signed letters of intent to move to the site as soon as space is made available. USAID will not
fund any of the interim phase activities. Nevertheless, the EA briefly addresses impacts
associated with the interim phase and includes a discussion of these impacts in Appendix H.
Table 3-1
PROJECTED INDUSTRY MIX AT THE GAZA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PHASE I                       FINAL PHASE
Types of Industry         % Space            Area      [   % Space           Area
Garments, Textiles           40             18,200            40            129,000
Consumer Industries          15             7,200             15             48,600
Electric Appliances          13             6,240             13            42,120
Shoes, Leather               10             4,800             10             32,400
Data Processing              5              2,400              5             16,200
Automotive Parts              5             2,400              5             16,200
Agro-Industries               5              2,400             5             16,200
Hardware                      3              1,440             3             9,720
Pharmaceuticals               2              960               2             6,480
Jewelry                       2              960               2             6,480
Total                       100%            48,000           100%           324,000
3.2   Site Description
As shown in Figure 3-1, the GIE site is situated approximately 5 km south of the center of Gaza
City; 25 km north of the new Gaza airport; and 5 km east of the proposed Gaza seaport. The GIE
is located immnediately off Highway 4 along the eastern edge of the Gaza Strip. El-Montar road
connects with Highway 4 and runs along the southeastern side of the site. A road leading to the
town of Netzarim starts at the El-Montar entry point and runs along the west side of the GIE
approximately 75 m from the site boundary. The GIE site area is known locally as the Old Matar
14



(airport) land. The location of the site relative to its immediate surroundings is shown in Figure
3-2.
During the British mandate, the GIE site was the location of a small airport. The existing
0                back-to-back goods exchange area, which is currently covered by a metal roof, was used as a
runway. After the end of the British mandate in 1948, the runway and hangars were used by the
United Nations Refugee Works Agency. The area was also used by Egypt in the late 1 960s. The
land is currently used as a back-to-back goods exchange, and it is the only area in Gaza where
goods are exchanged at the border.
The surface area of the GIE site is 485 dunums (485,000 m2). The PA owns the entire GIE
site. It is vacant and cleared. The land immediately north and east of the GIE is pnvately owned.
Land on the west and south side of the GIE is public. The GIE is located in a farmland and rural
area. The topography of the site area is relatively flat sloping gently from the northwest to the
southwest. The average elevation is about 65 m above mean sea level.
The site was selected by the PA and MOI based on several factors. A study was conducted
under the "emercency resource protection plan" to delineate areas within the Gaza Strip that
should not be used for industrial activities if sensitive receptors existed nearby or contamination
of groundwater could occur. The GIE site was selected to avoid these areas. Further, the site is
adjacent to the major border crossing for shipping goods between Israel and the Gaza Strip (the
back-to-back exchange). It is therefore accessible to both Gaza and Israeli markets. Finally, since
the site is owned by public authorities, ownership issues can be avoided.
3.3   Off-Site Infrastructure Components, Plans, and Alternatives
The PA and MOI, as part of their agreement with PADICO, have agreed to provide the necessary
off-site infrastructure to meet the requirements of the industrial estate for the three-phase
program (Ref. 37). PADICO will develop all on-site infrastructure such as on-site roads,
buildings, water distribution systems, and wastewater collection systems. There is general
agreerment about the elements of the infrastructure components that will be constructed by
PADICO and the responsibilities of the MOI and other PA agencies.
As noted earlier, in some cases, specific siting of the off-site infrastructure and on-site
infrastructure has not been made. The MOI has appealed to USAID, the World Bank, and others
to assist in the development of the off-site infrastructure in order to move the GIE project
forward and provide employment and trade opportunities to the Gaza Strip in the immediate
future.
The off-site infrastructure components discussed in the following sections include vehicuiar
access; electrical power; stormwater management; water supply; wastewater treatment and
effluent disposal; solid waste disposal; and telecommunications. The proposed action as well as
alternatives considered in the conceptual plan for off-site infrastructure are presented. Brief
summaries of key elements of each action and the alternatives are also included.
15
*-



/             -   :                         l~~~MEITEPRNEAN: SE
..      ...    ..El- l ...sser  Street                     .     .   .        .......... ..............  . .
Netzorim  ( Israeli
Settlement )         \s c                                                                                  treet
GAZA MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER               '|
TREATMENT PLANT                              t                                                                 lEGEND
00 So   re  Cecreife
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C  r IE SITE
\   | 3                                      m      ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edilenrenean Sea
Green Line
*                1\                                                          Major Road
To Khan-Yuni____/\) -- Minor Road
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 .re O5        1 km
/   m.( qQ,  a        /        +                ~~~~~~~~~Approximate Scale
El - M on    ta   /                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gaza I ndils tri al Es tate
Entry Point                El-Shhal =                                                                      Aea Map                     .
Entry Poin        I   AL



Highwoy 4                                                                              1fIic 
To Khon.-Yu,                                                                                                              2Chis0~
PHA-Owned ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ c Eisig   aedRa
Ilangar ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~EitngDrtRa
Frez    3-2
ESile  Sounelany
IS /A[       /      /        ______ Existing Paved Road
/gtf                  //                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exisling Dirt Road
/./SX // ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Green Line
./<W/                     X                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap)proximate Scale
<   1 g                              1l                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure 3-2
El-Montar  --                                                        1Gaza Industrial
Fntry Point      1g      \~liAlEstate Site Plan



3.3.1    Proposed Vehicular Access and Alternatives
Highway 4 is currently subjected to high traffic load, primarily because of the location of the    0
current back-to-back goods exchange facility at El-Montar. At present, according to a survey
conducted by MOPIC, approximately 3,440 vehicles per day use this highway, which is linked to
Gaza City by a number of roads leading to the west side of the city.
Currently, the only access to the GIE area is an existing 6 m-wide paved road that is 500 m
long. The access road stretches from Highway 4 to the entrance to the site. The access road
connects into an on-site paved road, which crosses the proposed GIE area and terminates at the
back-to-back goods exchange facility. At present, because of the closure of the Gaza Strip, it is
estimated that only 100 trucks per day use this access road to the facilities. Once the GIE is
constructed and fully developed, approximately 7,000 trucks are expected to use Highway 4 and
the access road to the GIE (Ref. I 1).
The different options described below are to accommodate the expected heavy traffic. These
options are shown in Figure 3-3. The construction of on-site internal roads are outside the scope
of the EA and are the responsibility of PADICO. However, the assessment wiIl consider points
of intersection and connection between on-site and off-site access.
Option 1:    Road on thle Soutftern Side of GIE
The existing access road that extends from Highway 4 to the entrance of the GtE will be
upgraded with 0.1 m of bituminous overlay. Two sidewalks will be added on the side of the road
and will each be 2 m wide. A central median will be provided with street illumination poles.
Stormwater drainage will be installed under the sidewalks for rainwater discharge. Cars and
buses will enter the site through a gate located at the entrance to the GTE.
The second section of the road is a dirt road. It starts at the access road before the GIE
entrance and turns at about a 90-degree angle toward the south for a distance of 171 m along the
western boundary. The road then turns at a 90-degree angle in a southeastern direction for 606 m
along the south boundary until it reaches the end of the south boundary of the site. The road turns
90 degrees towards the northeast, stretches 204 m, and ends at the back-to-back goods exchange
facility. This road will be used by trucks that are going to the exchange facility only. Tne GIE
trucks will be admitted at the main gate.
Option 2:    Road on the Eastern Side of GIE
The existing access road extending from Highway 4 to the entrance to the GIE will be used.
Trucks will enter at the western entrance then travel on the existing dirt road for 697 m toward
the north. The4oad turns at a 90-degree angle and stretches to the east for about 357 m. It then
deviates slightly to the south for 159 m and turns sharply southward for about 411 m to enter the
exchange facility.
Option 3:    Road on thze Northern Side of GIE
The access road follows the northem boundary of the GIE in a southem direction. Trucks for
both GIE and the exchange facility would exit Highway 4 about 1 km north of the intersection of
the highway with the existing access road. The trucks would then follow an existing road that
18



stretches about 250 meters between private houses and small industrial plants. The road then
follows the same route described in Option 2 above on the northem side of the property until it
reaches the back-to-back goods exchange facility. This road is for trucks entering the property
from the northern side and for trucks bound for the exchange facility.
Option 4 (Proposed Action): Road on Northern Side of GIE and Extension of El-Montar
Street
This option is the proposed action and is the same as option 3 except that the access road starts at
the extension of El-Montar Street and continues toward the east in a straight line,passing through
private property of farm land until it joins the northern side of GrE. It continues east for a
distance of 704 m. The road then turns southeast for 411 m and enters the exchanae facility. A
comparison of the four alternatives is provided in Table 3-2.
Table 3-2
Technical Comparison of Road Alternatives
Item          |  Option 1  [  Option 2      Option 3    Option 4 (Proposed
Action)
Existing Street Length   | 215 m        215 m        250 m       j250 m
Total Length              974 m         1,532 m      1,198 m     |_1,096 m
Street Width              16 m          16m          16n  m      |6m
Access Road Width         7 m           7 m          7 m           7 m
Cost of phase I (US$)     372,227       583,795      463,002       591,770
Cost of phase liI (US$)   NA            NA           NA            668,493
19
0



.. ;.<;i4hwoy 4                                                                                       -,
10 Ma(n-yunis                 ,</        ,       9]         _~'E                                                                   X
To l(hon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yu0~~~~~~~~~5~T
//            huniow
y6g / .<i ,, 1X~___                                      laC  PO3  ,T Fez Checkpo 0  -'|
IlFiielofy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
~~~1<   .)                                tI-Shwae       OPIO         _    =_____==       11/
<   IlFoctory  .            x OPTION   2                            ,OPTION   4
ION  111/
II                                                          JC             lEGEND
11                        ." it                                              =_NEW ROADS OR
BO 11                    S- 1                            RS (                         UPGRADED ROADS
.     /,    /                               /                _______- Site Boundary
II-=A_____--__ 7/ '~U~->  Existing Paved Road
II/                                                            E2 X =   --:Existing Dirt Road
,/<9/ /Y                                                           -~---      Green Line
,  /.  ,                          Ol      1     200 m
Approximate Scale
Figure 3-3
El-Montor ~        .                                               11                                      Proposed Access
Enlry Point       i                   ~                   _        1l    , fx          >       ;_Roads
4 b  I .              -  -          w             I. lAp



3.3.2          Proposed Electrical Energy Provision and Alternatives
The power requirements for the GIE have been estimated at 3 megawatts (MW) during Phase I
and 21 MW for Phase III, when the site will be fully developed (Ref. 1 1). Tnese estimates were
based on ar. assumed mix of industrial tenants within the 250-site estate as well as the demands
for the provision of services such as the water and wastewater treatment plants and security
lighting. The options considered for meeting these requirements take into account the current
loading and demand forecasts for the existing power lines in reasonable proximity to the site; the
desire for reduced energy dependence on Israeli generating capacity; the likelihood that new
generating capacity will be established within the Gaza Strip; and the need for reliable standby
power for periods of unpredictable electricity power outage. Although Line 6 passes closest to
the GIE site, providing power from this line was not considered as it is already very heavily
loaded and the PEA considered alternatives to reduce the load on this line to be unreasonably
complicated. Therefore, the options considered include a Phase I element (which includes
provision for diesel standby power') and a Phase III element to provide for the ultimate needs of
the estate. The options for the off-site electrical power plan are shown in Figure 3-4. The on-site
plan is illustrated in Figure 3-5.
Althouah the EA will not consider the details of on-site power distribution, it will discuss
certain measures, such as energy conservation, which may have off-site impacts on the
environment. An assessment of the impacts of large-scale off-site power generation are beyond
the scope of this assessment and will not be dealt with in this report.
Phase I - Proposed Alternative: Overhead Utility Power with Standby Generation
Tne PEA would provide 3 MW of power by extending two feeder lines from Israeli Electric
Company (IEC) sources (feeder lines 4 and 5) near the intersection of these feeder lines and
Highway 4 (see Figure 3-5). Overhead transmission lines (22 kv) would be constructed from
these locations along the current road right-of-way to the boundary of the GIE. One line would
begin at the intersection of Line 4 with Highway 4 and would be joined by a second line, which
would begin at the intersection of Line 5, Highway 4. The distance from the Line 4, Highway 4
intersection to the entry gate of the GIE is approximately 4.5 km. The distance from the Line 5,
Route 4 intersection to the GIE entry gate is approximately 2.3 km. From this point, the two lines
would be buried as they traverse the GIE property to the switch gear installed within the utility
area at the southeast comer of the property.
A line sufficient to carry the load requirements for the full build-out of the site would be
buried along with the incoming lines to minimize disruption when Phase III is implemented,
Although all reference to the proposed diesel generator set is as a standby unit, the analysis included in Ref. II is based on
operation for 10 hours a day. This suggests that the diesel generator set should more appropriately be described as providing for
the intermediate and peak power requirements of the GIE. To be consistent, this report will continue to refer to the generator set
as a standby unit.
21



Power from the switch gear in the utility would be conveyed through a network of buried cables
to roughly five transformers spread throughout the first phase build-out area of the GIE.
Standby power is to be provided by a 2.2 MW standby diesel generator with lines connected
to the switch gear located within the utilities complex. Fuel storage for three days (estimated) of
15 m3 is also proposed, either underground or in a ground-level tank. A site for this standby
generator and its associated fuel storage that would be acceptable to the PEA and PADICO has
not yet been identified. A site of about 250 M2 will be required. Fuel would be either trucked or
piped to the site from the fuel distribution point about 4 km north of the GIE site.
Phlase I - Option 2: Buried Utility Power witlh Standby Generation
This option is the same as option I except that the overhead lines along Highway 4 and along the
site access road would be buried. The connection points and routing for the power lines would
remain the same as in option 1. No altematives for standby power were considered. It should be
noted that the burial of power lines is an expensive (in this case nearly a quarter of a million
dollars) altemative, and it has adverse environmental impacts and costs. In the United States, this
is normally carried out only under the most extraordinary circumstances to mitigate adverse
aesthetic impacts where those impacts are of some overriding importance.
Plhase III - Option 1: Dedicated GIE Power Plant
The GIE would construct a fully operational 21 MW diesel power plant awaY from the GIE site.
Power would be transmitted to the site either above ground or underground and connected to the
underground line as it enters the GIE property. No site for this generating facility has been
identified or discussed. Evaluation of this future facility is outside the scope of this EA because
the plans for this unit are preliminary. Among the uncertainties for the Phase III power provision
is the fuel source of the proposed generating facility. Although the preliminary plans call for
diesel-powered generation, gas turbine generation using natural gas from a possible gas pipeline
originating in Egypt may result in lower cost and more environmentally benign power
production.
22



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _. .o .    .   '.i  o.  .5 . .e .    ., .b .-, . . '  . . .- . .' .i . .- .    . . . . .  . .-' .   '- .   :- . . . .4 .  _                                                                                                               
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . . . . .,.,.,.,.,. .......  .   .:., . ., . ., ,. . . .    ,i . .  :.
'   '   '   '   '1-'   '  -'  '  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...     ......     .....     
FUTURE   i                                     -..AA                                        3:"t
,  /                                  Coastal Rood                             :,
\   El-Nasser Street   |/
,< etzorim   ( Israeli hl{ 3
Settlement )                                                                           . c|El.Nsser   Street
.1       GAZA MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER              \.IIE
C,                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~LEGEND
TREATMENT PLANT                           '                    _ _    -,               . _   1                 S                                 O   ST
-->treet  g    S  ---1s<--               <   5'-Jaloq  stree0              _                 GIE SITE
0        -
_                                                  \   O        I r)                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)o 7
\ 1 3 ... L .-:                                                       Mediterranean Sea
ELECTRICAL UNE
To  Khon-Yunis                                                                           _ -/  -   - .                                   ..  >E---k  Green Line
//  .--  .           tje e-    -*d                    Approximale Scale
t0 '                                        e  ) t- Street     -          ,r. .
-   )0n- S                                             -,'            n         a  n.nD                                               rezCheck
2 UNES 22KV                               n             J4
JUNCTION  HINE                JUNClON  I-INE 4
ToErez  CeI           o n-
Figure 3-4
Proposed Electrical
Entry  Poinft                    EI-ShiJai h                                          '-Power Plan (Off Site)
Enty   oin~,    ISPNA                                                        ___________



0±hg         4                                                                            h9ghwqy 1   <                  r                -- . 42 Lines 22kv
To Khan.,y-jnis                           /                                                                    -NAPwenLn
, ~~~~~~.~   7-   >/   // S                                 i     iteoundary
I~//                                            f _ __  ___ _       /1re              Ex h istngPve-R
SwthGa ae >0n -              /-=-   Eistinglur R
El-Showa'                                                                               Powereen Line
/. """'            7                        -    ~~~~~~~~~~~Site Boundlary
Switch  Gear Panel    /'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'/    \                 / ~~~Existing Paved Road
___                                               -~~~~~~~------x- ~~~~~~~Green line
2.2 MW Standby                                                                                                      0 </           200 m
Generator             -  _                                                       <-                                 Approximate Scale
(Site  not Determined)                                                               /
NOTE:  Final Plhase Options Not Shown
Figure 3-5
El-Montor -                                                                                               Proposed Electrical
Entry Point                                              {                                                  1 Power Plan (On Site)
*~~~~                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !    SAl .



Plhase IMI - Option 2: Direct Connection to IEC with Dedicated Lines
W                    All power requirements would be met by constructing two dedicated lines from the GIE site
directly to the IEC substation in Israel. Arrangements and purchase agreements would have to be
made and cost estimates developed. No details regarding power line distances or routing, or the
possible need for substation upgrading, are available at this time.
Phiase III - Proposed Action: Connection to Futuzre PEA Generating Facility
All power requirements would be supplied by a power plant that would be constructed within the
Gaza Strip. The proposed power plant has not yet been approved, but approval Vill most likely
occur during the coming months. The proposed location for the power plant is roughly 10 kmn
southwest of the GIE site. This implies about 10 km of transmission line will be needed.
However, the route is not certain and may be more than 10 km. As with the dedicated GIE plant,
environrnental evaluation of this facility is outside the scope of this EA.
A comparison of the described alternatives is summarized in Table 3-3.
Table 3-3
Summary Comparison of Alternatives
Item             Phase I       Phase I    Phase III    Phase III      Phase ill
Option I      Opticn 2    Option I    Option 2      Option 3
-   10                        ~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Action                            Proposed Action
Transmission Lines       6.8 km        6.8 km        Nct         Not       Nct Determined
Determined   Determined
~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                             _eer    _i_eXd
.*        Trenching                 4.5 km          0          Not          Nct      Not Determined
Determined   Determined
Transformers ___                                     40          40             40
Required
Standby Generation       2.2 MW        2.2 MW        _            _ -
Investment Cost         $665,000      $880,000   $3,000,000      Not         $863,000
(USS)                                               (est.)    Determined
3.3.3     Proposed Water Supply Provision and Alternatives
The proposed approach for provision of water supply service to the GIE is based on one
overriding consideration. The freshwater resources of the Gaza Strip are limited and should not
be overstressed. This consideration led to the decision to consider either bulk purchase of water
from Meckorot (the Israeli water company) or the use of a dual system for potable water and
brackish water with potable water provided for worker use (for drinking, washing, and ablutions)
and for limited industrial applications. Brackish water would be provided for other industrial
uses. This approach would require that each factory or industry treat brackish water to the
25



standards required for their use and store this treated water on their leased site. The total water
requirement to meet the industrial and potable water needs of the GIE in its final phase has been
estimated to be 3,200 m'/day, with 800 m3/day of this amount to meet the potable water needs    W
(Ref. 10). Figure 3-6 shows the location of the proposed brackish water well, the reverse osmosis
(RO) system, and the water storage tank.
Option 1: Drill Brackish Water Wells and Treat a Portion of thle Water Using- Reverse Osmosis
to A'Ieet Potahle Water Needs, with Wastewater Recycle to MVIeet a Portion of thze Inzdustrial
Water Demand
Four 120 meter-deep brackish water wells on the GIE property would be drilled to provide a
brackish water to meet all water demands for the project. The water abstraction approved for
Phase I is 1,100 m3/day. A dual system for provision of brackish water and potable water is
proposed. Water that would be used by industry and for nonpotable purposes will be provided by
a combination of brackish water and recycled treated wastewater and stormwater and stored for
use in a 3000 m3 concrete ground level storage tank with an additional 600 m3 steel elevated tank
for emergency storage. An RO process is proposed to provide 400 m3/day of water treated to
acceptable intemational drinking water standards during Phase I and 800 m3/dav at project
completion. Reject water (or brine) from the RO process (roughly estimated at 100 m3/day for
the first phase and 200 m3/day when the GIE is fully developed) will be either trucked (Phase I)
or piped (Phase III) to the sea. The proposed location of the RO plant and elevated storage tanks
is on the GIE property near the north end of the present back-to-back goods exchange facility. A
400 m3 elevated tank for storage of RO treated water also would be provided at this site.
The RO process selected would utilize pretreatment filters; a low pressure thin film
composite membrane; a 10-20% bypass of filtered water for eftluent blending; chemical
treatment (acidification and pH adjustments of the permeates); and chlorination of the stored
water. Alternatives for potable water production, which were proposed and studied, included
various configurations in which electrodialysis reversal was used in place of RO. These
approaches were rejected on technical grounds as not being appropriate because of the feed water
chemical characteristics, complexity of operation, lack of flexibility to feed water changes, and
limitations for future expansion. The building to house the RO units (one initially, a second for
the final phase, and space for a third as a contingency) and all pumps, chemicals, and other
ancillary equipment is expected to have a footprint of about 360 m2.
Proposed Alterniative (Option 2): Drill Brackish Water Wells and Treat Using a Portion of the
Water from tlze'Reverse Osmosis to MMfeet Potahle Water iNeeds, witIhout Treated Wastewater
Recycling
This option is the same as option 1 without the recycle of treated wastewater or stormnwater to
augment water set aside for industrial uses. In this option, a single 1200 m3 steel elevated storage
tank will be used to contain the brackish water. This would simplify the physical layout and
reduce the capital costs of the project.
26
0



Option 3: Drill Brackislh Water WVells and Purchase Bulk WVaterfrom Vekorot to Meet
Potable Water Needs
Brackish water would be provided for industrial applications as outlined under option 1. The
potable water requirement for the GIE (and select industries) would be supplied by the Israeli
Water Company, Mekorot, through a 4 km pipeline, a booster pump, and a potable water storage
tank.
Option 4: Purchase Bulk WVaterfrom Mfekorot to Mfeet All Water Needs
*         All water requirements for the site, including potable ard industrial water, wouldcbe provided by
Mekorot through the pipeline described briefly under option 3. This option would alleviate the
necessity for a dual water system at the GIE site.
A comparison of alternatives is provided in Table 3-4.
Table 3-4
Summary Comparison of Alternatives
(Total for First and Final Phases)
Item                  Option I      Option 2       Option 3   j  Option 4
Well Drilling and Equipping         $1,279,000    $1230,000      $945,000          $0
Brackish Water Storage              $700,000      $400,000       $400,000
3,600 m3     1,200 m3       1,200 m3
Reverse Osmosis Plant and ancillary  r $1,735,000    $1,535,000
equipment
Potable Water Storage               $250,000      $250,000       $350,000       $550,000
400 m3 total   400 m3 total    800 m3 total   2,000 m3 total
Supply line from Mekorot                                         $575,000
Inciuding pumps and controls
Investment Cost (US$) Including     5,164,000     4,527000       2,924,000      2,048,000
contingencies and engineering and
construction management
Unit cost (annuaiized $US/m3)         $0.40         $0.36          $0.39 -        $0.77
27



Il'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~7
Hihwoy 4                                                                                4
TO Khon-yunis                                     VJ r-             _-
/   UN ~~~~  PNA-Owned                -
.-- A  S   !ctoC  \1         W                         -                                             'ITO&Er
,                 ,                   :                           1/ /t-,     ~~~~~~~~~LEGEND
I                                                 U ID,l  <23    Approximate Location of
Brackish Water Wells
V           r.- /4                           10/          -_-    Illustrative Routing for
Pumping to Storage
L .'    /1               Site Boundary
, 9,2<, la   . </, ->-- Existing Paved Rocd
//  >-    Reverse Osmosis                       /               -   Existing Dirt Road
- )-    < '         and Water Storage          yx-  , Green line
I,,, \9 /               a1/                                            I      I0     2pO m
V                        1"                 0/ Approximate Scale
Figure 3-6
El-Montar                                                ~                                                    11 . Proposed Water
Entry Point                                                         I    L                    -              Supply Pk
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                            is r _I-IAf



3.3.4    Proposed Wastewater Treatment and Alternatives
The proposed wastewater treatment action and its alternatives are based on three important
assumptions. The first is that the influent to the wastewater treatment plant can be classified as
domestic wastewater (does not contain synthetic organic compounds, heavy metals, or other
chemicals). Secondly, each tenant at the GIE will be required to pretreat their industrial wastes to
agreed standards prior to conveying them to the wastewate- plant. To accomplish this, rigorous
restrictions could be placed on the kinds of tenants allowed to operate in the zone and on the
industrial processes allowed. Finally, the wastewater treatment plant effluent wig, be of a high
enough quality for agricultural reuse and aquifer recharge. The wastewater treatment plant was
designed to treat a flow of 2,000 m3/day when the GIE is fully developed. Figure 3-7 shows the
proposed location of the wastewater treatment plant.
Proposed Action: Pretreat Industrial Waste and Treat Combined Industrial and Domestic
*         MWastes Using Sequencing Batch Reactors (SBR)
'All tenants of the GIE will be required to pretreat their liquid wastes prior to discharge into the
GIE wastewater treatment plant. The details of this pretreatment requirement have not yet been
fully defined. A discussion of possible industrial wastewater pretreatnent requirements is
presented in Appendix F. The information presented in this appendix is based on information
provided by PADICO for the proposed mix of industry types, and additional information
developed by the EA team for the possible character of typical industries in the light-to-medium
manufacturing range. Tne data presented in Appendix F are provided as a guide to assess the
impacts of industrial development on wastewater treatment and effluent disposal by agricultural
irrization and recharge to the upper aquifer.
The basic premnise is that wastewater produced by each of the industrv types within the
approved industrial mix at the GIE can be suczessfully treated to the effluent limits set for the
end-of-pipe wastewater treatment plant. It is generally acknowledged that wastewater treatment
and reuse technologies exist which will allow the tenant industries to meet these pretreatment
requirements, and that these technologies have been successfully used throughout the world for
this purpose (see Appendix F for a listing of industrial wastewater pretreatment unit operations).
It is also acknowledged that the end-of-pipe treatment facility influent wastewater quality
requirements can be met by a combination of wastewater pretreatment and applied restriction on
the kinds of industrial tenants allowed to operate in the GIE. However, there is a need to
maintain a balance between the types of industries that will provide raw materials to the basic
i        product and those that produce the finished product that is sold to the market. Therefore, there
also needs to be an understanding that some higher-polluting industries (i.e., usually the raw
material producers) have to be present at the GIE for the industrial estate to be economically
viable. Nevertheless, the pollution that the raw material processing industries generate can be
controlled through the application of existing technologies for wastewater reuse and
pretreatment, and the cost of deploying these technologies should be considered a normal part of
doing business.
29



A fully automated end-of-pipe wastewater treatment plant will be constructed that includes a
series of treatment processes with biological treatment the principle method of pollution
reduction. The flow process proposed (Figure 3-8) includes a fine mesh primary screen; an
aerated flow equalization tank; SBRs; aerobic digesters; post equalization; and tertiary filters.
The resulting treated effluent will be of a high-quality liquid effluent, which will further undergo
chlorination. The SBR process is a batch process that requires flow equalization both prior to and
after treatment. The waste-activated sludge will be treated in an aerobic digester prior to
supernatant return to treatment and sludge handling. The biological sludge and screenings
produced in the wastewater treatment svstem will be dewatered using drying. For Phase I, one
SBR would be built with a second added to complete the final phase of the project.
As designed and assuming adequate pretreatment, the wastewater treatment plant should
produce a liquid effluent suitable for agricultural reuse (Ref. 1). The liquid effluent would be
pumped away from the GIE site to the south to Wadi El-Katron. It will be deposited to infiltrate
into the ground to recharge the aquifer or pumped bv local farmers for use in agriculture.
There were three options for effluent disposal proposed in the GIE wastewater
management plan report (Ref. l). Option I recommended pumping the treated effluent to the
United Nations Development Program (TVNDP) facilities for storage and reuse as irrigation
water. The preferred action recommended pumping the treated effluent to Wadi El-Katron for
irrigation reuse and infiltration. Option 2 recommended storage of the treated effluent on-site so
that the effluent can be made available to local farmers to haul to their land. All the options
involve irrigation reuse and recharge. The proposed action was selected because the Wadi El-
Katron is less than 3 km from the planned industrial estate, and a number of farmers along the
Wadi had expressed interest in using the water for irrigation of citrus crops in the region.
Presently, a number of these farmers use brackish well water for this purpose. The dewatered
biological sludge is to be disposed of by land applications in local orchards for its fertilizer
content. Alternately, the sludge could be disposed of at the landfill site.
Option 1: Pretreat Industrial Waste and Treat Domestic and Industrial Wastes Usina the
Biolac' Process
This option is the same as the proposed action with the exception that the biological
treatment process is different. The industrial pretreatment requirement remains and the disposal
of the effluent and biological sludge options are unchanged.
This option would utilize the Biolac' process, which involves the use of bubble diffusers to
extend the aeration process and effect high Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and nitrogen
removal (Figure 3-9). This approach includes internal clarification prior to post equalization and
tertiary treatment of liquid effluent and aerobic digestion of sludge. The Biolac' is a semi-
continuous process not as fully automated as the SBR option outlined above. For Phase I, one
Biolacl unit would be built with a second added to complete the final phase of the project.
30



JQ-JOKhan-~yunlsig/ ~a 
To Woadi  1-Katnon                                             p
(Exact Route not Determined) «XH~~                                   PNA-Owned
ng,vf;f;   :   :1F°Ct°Y  ~~~~~~Heipor                                                  (/ogn  -
-J4fl  -                                             T0 tre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~CheCkpo--:- ''~
factory
1 /W
Force Main for Combined                                                                                                LEGEND
Wastewater Effluent and                                                                              /
Stormwater                                                                                                                        Site Boundary
_1  ~.                                                         -//tX' /Existing Paved Road
._______<  -_  _=  f/                             --         Existing Dirt Road
____         2 '                                        //                     -><      - A Green Line
Proposed Wastewater                                                                                                            Apprximte 0col
Treament Plant                                '                                                                               Approi        Sl e
Figure 3-7
E1-Montar P                                                                                                    Proposed Wastewater
Treatment Plan



Nutrients
Chlorine
Disposal
GIE        Raw Waste            Primary          Aerated Flow         SPR    _        Post                Tertiary    I     Pin        |
WGstewater   Lift station         Screening         EqXalization        Treatmen       Equalization         Filtration           Station
Waste
Activate(d
Sludge
Treated
Digester                ero ic                                    Stormwater           Effluent to
Supernatant            igestion                                    Storage            Agricultural
IQ                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reuse
Screenings
to Solid                                    Digested
Waste Disposal                              Slujdge                                Stormwater
Drying Bed                    from  GIE
___ - Sludge
Dewatering     Dried Sludge
to Land
Application
Figure 3-8
Wastewater Treatment
(Proposed Action)



Nutrients
Supplied                      Chlorine
Aeration
CIE         Raw Waste            Primary          Aerated Flow                  _                            Tertiary           Disposal
_________                                        ____________________                       -    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~Pum ping
Wastewater    Lift station         Screening         Equali?ation                                               Filtration           Station
Waste                Biolac Treatment
Activated           W/lnternal
Sludge              Clarification
Treoted
Digester            K  Aerobic  0                                   Stormwater            Effluent to
u  Supernatant      \ Digestion J                                    Storage              Agricultural
Reuse
Screenings
to Solid                                      Digested
Waste Disposal                                Sludqe                                  Stormwater
Drying Bed                     from  GIE
Dewatering      Dried Sludge
to Land
Applicatio..
Figure 3-9
Wastewater Treatment
(Option 1)



Option 2: Pretreat Industrial Waste and Treat Domestic WYaste Using Rotating Biological
Contractors (RBC)
This option is also the same as the proposed action with the exception that the biological
treatment process is different. The industrial pretreatment requirement is the same, and the
options for the disposal of the effluent and biological sludge options are unchanged.
The wastewater treatment proposed would be a continuous treatment process utilizing RBC
(Figure 3-10). This process consists of contractors with an attached growth (fixed film)
biological culture as opposed to the suspended growth process characteristic of the other
proposed options. For Phase I, one RBC unit and a clarifier would be built. A second RBC unit
and clarifier would be added to complete the final phase of the project. A summary of
alternatives is provided in Table 3-5.
Table 3-$
Summary Comparison of Alternatives
Item                  Option I           Opticn 2             Option 3
Proposed Action        O       2
Industrial Pretreatment          Required            Required             Required
Process                      Sequencing Batch        Biol2c          Rotating Bicicoical
Reactcrs                               Contractors
Process type                      Batch          Semi-Ccntinuous  |      Continuous
Post-Equalization                  Yes            Not Necessary   |    Nct Necessary
S;udge Handling              Activated Sludge    Activated Sludge     Activated Sludge
Retained with     Recirculated with    Retained with excess
excess removed by  excess removed by    removed by natural
intervention       intervention          processes
BOO5 Removal                     Complete           Complete             Complete
Nitrogen Removal                  Partial             Partial              Partial
Synthetic Organics Removal          No                 No                   No
Heavy Metal Removal                 No                 No                   No
Liquid Effluent Disposal     Agrcultural Use &    Agricultural Use &  Agricultural Use &
Aquifer Recharge    Aquifer Recharge    Aquifer Recharge
Sludge Disposal               Agricultural Use    Agricultural Use     Agricultural Use
Investment Cost (USS)
Phase I                     $2,110,000          $2,717,000       (no estimate made)
Phase II                      $891,000          $1,298,000
34



*                                                               *S                                                                0
Nutrients         Supplied
Aeration
Chlorine
Clarification
CIE      Raw Waste          Primary         Aerated Flow                                                                DiDsposal
Wastewater Lift station        Screening   I   Equalization          i fl i                            Filtration          P upion
Sludge                              Stormwater           Effltuent to
Digester                            e   c                          Storoge            Agricultural
Digester________________     _ / Aer                                                 Reuse
Supernatant                        Digestion
Screenings                                                                         Stormwater
l  to Solid                                              Digested                  from  GIE
Waste Disposal                                           Sludge
Drying Bed
.-_  Sludge       -OP
Dewatering     Dried Sludge
to Land
Application
Figuire 3-10
Wastewater Treatment
(Option 2)



3.3.5    Proposed Stormwater Control and Alternatives
Stormwater management plans are based on a five-year maximum daily precipitation of 52 mm
dispersed over an area of 485,000 m2. Provisions were made for a maximum runoff from the site
of approximately 20,000 m3 (assuming a runoff coefficient of 0.8).
Option 1: Collection and Pumping to Wadi El-Katron
The proposed action is to construct a network of stormwater catch basins and drain runoff by
gravity to an off-site retention pond and pump the accumulated stormwater away from the GIE
site. This retention pond will be designed to store 10,000 m3, or half the anticipated five-year
maximum daily runoff. The exact location of the retention pond is yet to be agreed upon. The
proposed pumping system will be capable of conveying 16,000 m3/day away from the site (the
pumped site eftluent will consist of accumulated stormnwater in addition to the wastewater
treatment plant effluent described in Section 3.3.4). Current plans call for stormwater to be
pumped to Wadi El-Katron some 3 km south of the GIE site.
Proposed Alternative
No alternatives for stormwater collection, storage, disposal, or possible reuse were proposed,
therefore option I is the selected altemative.
3.3.6    Proposed Solid Waste Disposal and Alternatives
Several types of solid waste will be generated by the GIE. Based on the industrial operations  0
predicted for the GIE, solid waste products will fall into four major catezories including
municipal waste (paper, cardboard, plastic); industrial waste (metal cuttings, wood scraps);
pretreatment sludge from industries operating in the estate; and residues possibly including
hazardous waste. According to the agreement between the PA and the developer, the developer
will be responsible for managing solid waste generated at the GIE.
The Municipality of Gaza maintains a landfill site in the El Mazraa area approximately 1.5
km south of the GIE and 7 km south of the city of Gaza. This landfill has been in operation since
1989. Prior to 1989, solid waste may have been disposed of in the same area as the landfill. The
landfill area is approximately 13.5 hectares. Current projections suggest that this landfill will be
sufficient for the'needs of the city and surrounding areas for at least 8-10 years. An area of the
landfill has been selected for future disposal of hazardous waste including industrial and medical
wastes.
Proposed Action: Truck All Solid Wastes to the Gaza M'funicipal Landfill
The Municipality of Gaza, through agreements or contracts with the GIE, would collect all
solid wastes generated at the site, including hazardous waste, and truck them to the Gaza landfill.
36
.



Hazardous waste would be segregated and disposed of in a lined section of the landfill as soon as
this hazardous waste section is completed. Other solid waste disposal options were not
considered in this evaluation because of the lack of available land within the GIE for a separate
on-site waste disposal facility.
3.3.7    Proposed Telecommunications Service and Alternatives
All telephone lines are distributed in and out of Gaza through the Gaza Central Exchange (GCE)
located in Gaza City on Omar Mokhtar Street. The system is connected by a fib8ir-optic cable to
Israel, which runs through the Shija'iah area to the border at the Nahal ozi gate. This fiber-optic
cable is used for all incoming and outgoing telecommunications including telephone, fax, and
Internet access.
The current telephone service in the GIE area is very poor. The area will require the
extension of the telecommunications network to provide the 800 lines planned for Phase I and
the 1,800 lines ultimately planned for the GIE. Figure 3-11 shows the layout of the
teleco=munication lines.
Option 1:   MIicrowaveStatiDn, ElectronicExcange, and SiteExchange
A microwave station would be built at the GIE facility with an electronic exchange to handle
all incoming and outgoing telecommunications. A local exchange would then route all
communications to subscribers within the industrial estate. The system would not be directly
connected to the existing telecommunications system within Gaza.
Option 2:    Fiber-Optic Linefrom Closure in the Sliija'iaxz Area to the GIE
A new fiber-optic cabIe would be connected to the existing cable at the closure in the
Shija'iah area and pulled through existing conduit to the intersection of Baghdad Street and
Highway 4. A new conduit would be placed along Highway 4 and the site access road to the
administration building just inside the GIE site to allow completion of the fiber-optic connection
from the existing network to the GIE. A DEKEL remote exchange, along with ancillary
equipment, would be placed in a locked room in the administration building. The GIE would
have access to the distribution frame to allow connection of lines from GIE subscribers. One
DEKEL unit with a capacity of 1,024 lines would be installed initially with an additional unit
installed to complete the project.
Proposed Action: Dedicated Fiber-Optic Line from the GCE to the GIE
The proposed action is similar to option 2 except that a new fiber-optic line would be placed
from the Gaza Central Exchange to the intersection of Baghdad Street and Highway 4 through an
existing conduit. The remnainder of the proposed action is as described above. A summary of
alternatives is provided in Table 3-6.
37
0



Table 3-6
Summary Comparison of Telecommunication Alternatives
Item           .  Option 1        Option 2           Option 3
i  Proposed Action
Length of line                   0            3.5 km             7.5 km
Trenching Required               0     T      2.5 km     |       2.5 km
Total Cost (based on MPT)        -        Not Determined       $1,173.700
3.3.8    The No-Action Alternative
EAs conducted pursuant to USAID and the World Bank guidelines must evaluate the
environmental impacts of the no-action alternative. The no-action alternative is defined as
USAID and other donors selecting not to fund the off-site infrastructure. The most likely
scenario under these circumstances is that the GIE will develop as an industrial site, with or
without PADICO, and that given the lack of regulatory authority, this industrial development
would be largely without environmental controls.
S
38



I.                         /FDITEPN N[.                                              . /rA  Coastal Road  
\   El-Nasser Street   __          /
Netzarim Israeli                                                                                - -   |                 e
Settlement )ElNasser  Street
D            \'s,             .        ,: ,Y   / ~~~~~~~GALA CENTRAI                                     ------
GAZA MUNICIPAL Y1ASTEVATR                       I      I       AEXCI IANGE                                 - -     -         -i-E N
TREATMENT PLANT                    _d           i                                           S_tret           LEGEND
aStreet L- .                                                   l E-J alaa street GIE SITE
\|                                                       Mediterranean Sea
Telecommunications
/          {IV     ,~~ Line
To Khan-YOrls                             -i (                                                                           +<   Green Line
---7- ..t ---  -                    ° Stre                          0     0.5     1 km
.a/ -1   A (/i    S°la^td   -. -Approximate Scale
0  E°rnZ Check
.  ,  rn   l
To Ere-, Check'pit~
Figure 3-11
Proposed
El-Mont ry Poit                                                                                   Telecommirnications
Entry Poin        ISPAL                                                          Plan



DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING
ENVIRONMENT
This section briefly describes the existing environment in the GIE area. It is based on existing
literature, contacts with knowledgeable local professionals, and reconnaissance of the site.
4.1  Climate and Meteorology
The climate of the Gaza Strip is influenced bv the Mediterranean Sea. It has a typical
Mediterranean climate-mild winters with rainy periods and a hot, dry summer. Annual rainfall
varies considerably from year to year ranging from 900 mm to 200 mm. Average rainfall in the
northern part of the Gaza Strip is 430 mm per year and declines to 200 =m in the far south.
Average rainfall at the GIE site is approximately 300 to 400 mrnm per year. Almost half of this
occurs in December and January.
Gaza has a sunny cIimate with little extreme temperatures. The mean annual temperature is
20°C, and the sun shines two-thirds of the daylight hours. Total solar radiation is estimated at
2,200 joules per cm2 per day, which is considered high. Winds are predominantly off the
Mediterranean-from the west and northwest. During the late night and early morning hours,    S
winds are often from land to sea (easterly) as a result of temperature differentials between land
and sea (Ref. 6).
4.2 Terrestrial Ecology
The GIE site is in a life zone transition area between the Saharo-Arabian phytogeographic zone
to the south and Mediterranean zones to the north. The vicinity near the site has been
characterized as dwarf shrub steepe on loessial (wind blown) soils (Ref. 6).
With the assistance of a local biologist (Ref. 43), an examination of the site and the
immediate surrounding area indicates that there is only one tree (a tamor about 7 m tall) on the
entire site. The location of the tree and other vegetation is shown in Figure 4-1. A plant species
list is provided in Appendix I. There are only about three different species of common desert and
semi-desert thomy shrubs that rarely are more than I m tall (with the speciesfogonia mollis
identified as one of the three). The area was heavily grazed by goats with the remains of a large
okra garden (about 1 hectare) in the northeast comer.
40



The site is bounded by vegetation on the northwest and northeast sides. This narrow corridor
of vegetation is dominated by tamor trees, the thorny lugumonosi bush or tree, and pear cactus
(suber) with an occasional Australian pine, date palm, and jomaze tree, tangerine tree, and grape
vines. This corridor of vegetation is shown on the land use and vegetation map that appears in the
land use subsection of this section. None of the vegetation was determined to be rare or
threatened. However, given the paucity of native vegetation in the overall region and the fact that
this vegetation appears on the boundary of the site, PADICO should consider the preservation of
the corridor in its construction activities.
During the EA team's several site visits, the only animals observed were domestic goats
arazing the stubble from what appears to be earlier hay crops. A few birds (sparrows and the
"hudhud" bird) were also seen.
4.3   Geology and Soils
The Gaza Strip is essentially a foreshore plain gradually sloping westwards, underlain by a series
of geological formations from Mesozoic to the Quaternary. Table 4-1 illustrates the history of
geology in the Gaza Strip (Ref. 6). The soils of the Gaza Strip can be characterized into three
categories: the sandy soils, the loess soil, and the alluvial soil. The sandy soil can be found
approximately 5 km inland parallel to the coast, while alluvial soils can be found on the slopes of
the northem depressions between Beit Hanun and Wadi Gaza. Borings east of the El-Montar area
and near the GIE site have revealed the occurrence of alluvial deposits of about 25 m thick (Ref.
6).
41



Urban and                              .h--)                                                      b    a
Residential          ¢>"A                     Olive  Groves
G v , <.5   1   l   ja   AN    /    /        AResidential
To Khanyuni~~~~~                         PNA-Owned                    Farms~
U.N.~~~~~~~~~
Agricultural                                                                                 Che~~~~~'~/~   gr cultra
VACANT
Agricultural                                              Single Tamor Tree                         LEGEND
(future  industrial)                                                   _                , ,                     Vegetation Corridor
Near Site
Site Doundary
~m~ Existing Paved Road
Existing Dirt Road
,-<4-/   -- 8Creen Line
200 m
Approximate Scale
.    /    v   ~AgricultLural               /
*;  r,tl ~'/'        (row   crops)Ac r                     Agricultural
\                     (row  crops)                    (olives, row  crops)
EI-Montar --- /                                          //                                          Figutre 4-1
El-Mont                                                                                          j      Land Use and
Entry Point      :       ,1                                                        
vegetation
\_,.Arl-..



Table 4-1
GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF THE GAZA STRIP
Era        Epoch       Age       Formation      Environ-    Lithology  Maximum   Water Bearing
(million                   ment of                Thickness Characteristics
___________ I __years BP)              Deposition                 (m)
Holocene   0.01       Alluvial       Terrestrial    Sand,joess 25         Locally phreatic
Eolian       Calcareous             aquifer
Estuarine!    silt an
gravel
Fluvial
1.8        Continental    Eolian       Calcareous 100         MMain aquifer
Kurkar        Fluviai       sandstone
complex                     and loamy
Quaternary                          Marine Kurkar Near Shore   Calcareous 100          Main aquifer
sands.one
Pleistocene                                        (sandy and
pcrous)
Tertiary                 12         Conglomerate  Near shcre                20          Ease of the
coastal zone
Pliccene                                                                  aquifer
Saqiya        Shallow       Clay, marl,  1000      Aquiclude
marine       snale
Miocene    25                        Marine        Mart,      500         Aquiclude
limestone,             alterating
sandstone              permeable
and chalk             layers with
l______ ______ ______   ____ _  _saline   w ater
4.4 Land Use
The GIE site is on the fringe of the Gaza City urbanized area, which lies to the north and
northwest. The predominant land use on three sides is agricultural (grazing, olive groves,
cultivated row crops) with some scattered residential areas to the immediate north and
government-owned former aircraft hangars to the northwest. The green line and the security zone
buffer (100 m on either side of the green line) to the southeast have and will continue to create a
barrier to development to the southeast. The agricultural land to the southwest of the site is
planned for future industrial use by the PA. Figure 4-1 shows the land use immediately around
the site.
43
.



4.5 Air Quality and Noise
Although no ambient air quality monitoring data were available for the Gaza Strip, the
observations of the EA team and the consensus of PA environmental groups are the same: air
quality is not a priority (relative to water availability and quality and other issues).
With the exception of fugitive particulate emissions, the ambient air quality appears to be
acceptable. This is because the Gaza Strip is well-ventilated with ample dispersion of emissions
from the primary air emission sources-trucks and automobiles. Winds are either from the
Mediterranean or off the Negev desert-both of which are not sources of anthropomorphic
emissions. Also, there is relatively little heavy industry in the Gaza Strip (such as fossil fuel-fired
electric generation, chemical and refining, and metals processing).
Particulate matter appears to be principally in the formn of dust from disturbed surfaces. The
streets, paved and unpaved, are sources of particulates that are entrained into the air from motor
vehicle tires and the wind. This occurs because the streets are not cleaned and there is little
groundcover and poor street drainage resulting in large and thick lavers of silt and dirt deposits.
Some of the air-bome particulates result from wind blowing through disturbed construction sites
and plowed fields and other large areas without vegetative groundcover. Other sources of the
particulate matter may be from diesel-powered vehicles, fossil fuel, and wood combustion in
residences and small comnrnercial facilities.
Blowing dust at the GIE site is especially problematic given the truck traffilc; the wide-open
spaces, which are conducive to high winds; and the large expanse of plowed fields and bare soils.
Noise conditions at the site are typical of rural areas except for truck traffic associated with
transport of goods to the back-to-back goods exchange.
4.6   Energy Supply
There are no known oil, gas, or coal resources in the Gaza Strip. Refined products for
transportation, heating, and industry come to Gaza from Israel. At the present time PEA does not
have any electricity-generating capacity. All electrical power to the Gaza Strip is imported from
the IEC. The IEC provides electricity to the Gaza Strip through 11 feeder lines (two of which are
assigned to supply power to the Israeli settlements within the Gaza Strip boundaries) fed from
three substations within Israel. The lines of relevance to the GIE originate from the same IEC
substation at Biior (Ref. 8). Lines 4 (El-Shaaf), 5 (Baghdad), 6 (Al-Quaba), and 7 are fed from
the Bisor 161/22 KV transformer substation. Feeder lines 4, 5, and 6 (all to the north of the
proposed GIE) all have a voltage load of 22 KV. The PEA has indicated that line 6 (nearest to the
GIE) is now loaded to 88% of capacity, line 5 (about 2.5 km north of the GIE) is loaded to 70%
of capacity, and line 4 (about 4.5 krn north of the GIE) would require a transformer to be able to
contribute to the GIE's needs (Ref. 11).
The PEA has proposed construction of a large fossil fuel-fired combined cycle power plant.
(It would use either fuel oil or natural gas from a proposed Egyptian pipeline). The construction
44
0



*          of the first unit of this plant would alleviate immediate capacity concerns. The first unit of 80
MW capacity could be on-line in two years.
4.7 Hydrology and Water Availability
The groundwater resources of Gaza are restricted to the shallow aquifer, which is the sand (stone)
and clay layers located on top of the Saqiya Formation. Tne shallow aquifer consists mainly of
recent dune sand and calcareous sandstone; clay layers of limited thickness found close to the
sea; and a covering clay layer of 20 m thickress in the east. Gaza relies almost entirely on
groundwater drawn from the shallow aquifer for its freshwater supply. Minimal amounts of
freshwater are also obtained from other sources, such as rooftop rainwater catchmnents (Ref. 7).
Gaza's aquifer is often only a few meters from the surface. It ranges in thickness from 120 m
near the coast to 10 m in the east. Since it is near the Mediterranean and a deeper highly saline
aquifer, it is vulne-able to declining water levels, saltwater intrusion; and contamination from
agricultural and industrial activity (Ref. 20).
The fresh groundwater in Gaza typically occurs as lenses that float on top of brackish or
saline groundwater. These lenses are located mainly in the north and under the dunes along the
coast in the south where their thickness reaches greater than 80 m. The lenses are not oresent in
the southeastern portion of Gaza. In the central area the uppermost groundwater is mostly
brackish. The freshwater resources of Gaza are limited, with roughly two-thirds of the
groundwater resources in the shallow aquifer being brackish or saline (Ref. 7).
*                       The major source of fresh groundwater in Gaza is the rainfall. The average annual rainfall is
approximately 300-400 nuyear. On average, 40% of the total rainfall replenishes the
groundwater wimh the remaining 60% lost to evaporation. An additional source of fresh
groundwater is infiltration of surface water in the wadi (or dry creek) beds during days that
discharge occurs (Ref. 7).
The brackish or saline aroundwater in Gaza includes seawater that has recently intruded into
the aquifer and ancient brackish groundwater that has remained stagnant in a deeper part of the
aquifer but has been mobilized by increased groundwater abstraction (Ref. 7).
Other sources of groundwater include inflows from the surrounding areas of Israel and
infiltrating surface water. There is also inflow from wastewater that infiltrates from city sewers
and irrigation return flows from local agriculture (Ref. 7).
The estimates of the aquifer's renewable yield vary widely, ranging from 25 to 80 million mn3
per year, with an average of approximately 65 million m3 per year (Ref. 7, 20). The groundwater
aquifer, from which almost all municipal and agricultural water supplies are drawn, is seriously
overdrafted. Annual abstractions (or withdrawals) prior to Palestirnian autonomy were at 110
million m3, which are at least 40, and possibly 60, million m3 in excess of annual recharge (Ref.
2). There are no surface freshwater bodies in the Gaza Strip. The wadis flow in the streambed
only for a few days per year.
45
0



4.8   Water Quality and Existing Treatment
Of the 131 million m3 of water that replenishes the Gaza aquifer in a year, approximately 60% is
of poor quality. These recharge waters have increasing levels of salinity and nitrates (mainly
from irrigation return flows and domestic wastewater infiltration). The increased salinity results
from mixing fresh groundwater with more saline components like domestic wastewater,
irrigation return flow, and brackish groundwater or sea water. In areas where domestic
wastewater infiltrates, there exists high nitrate concentrations in the groundwater. This is also
true for areas with less rainfall and, therefore, less dilution (Ref. 7).
Irrigation return flow is rich in nitrogen because of overfertilization of crops, which results in
excess nitrogen in the irrigated inflows. In certain agricultural areas, this leads to a nitrogen load
to the groundwater that is similar to that in unsewered urban areas. The nitrates in the study area
could range from 50 to 150 mg/l as NO3-, depending on location (Ref. 7).
Increasing groundwater salinity is a problem in Gaza. The salinity of the Gaza groundwater is
determined by a mix of flow components like infiltrating rain, irrigation return flow, domestic
wastewater, sea water, and brackish groundwater. There is no lateral flow between the different
systems. Tnerefore, an erratic spatial variability in groundwater quality exists. Where an
intrusion of sea water occurs, groundwater salinity can easily reach 1000 to 1500 mg/L as
chloride (fresh groundwater is defined as having chloride content of less than 500 mg/L). This, in
turn, would cause a municipality to close a drinking water well. However, irrination wells
operate up to a 2000 mg Cl per liter level of salinity (Ref. 7).
The deteriorating water quality of the Gaza aquifer creates primarily aesthetic effects, but can
also have health impacts. According to WHO, 600 mg Cl per liter is the ration for acceptable    _
drinking water. Higher concentrations may have adverse health effects on those who have heart
or kidney problems. The concentrations of nitrate in Gaza groundwater are typically a factor 2 to
4 in excess of the WHO guideline of 50 mg NhO;- per liter for drinking water (potential health
impact of methemoglobinemia).
In agriculture, one of the direct impacts of salinization of the irrigation water is that yields of
salt-sensitive crops, like citrus, decrease. This may result from salt accumulation in the soil or an
excess of fertilizer application.
The groundwaters in the lower brackish water aquifer can be characterized as "hard," with
high levels of dissolved solids. The waters contain color, turbiditv, metals, and hydrogen
sulfides. The characteristics of water from the lower brackish water aquifer are shown in Table 4-
2 (Ref. 10). ;
46



Table 4-2
Water Characteristics of the Groundwater Aquifer
Parameter                      Concentration
pH                                             8.1
Hydrogen Sulfides                           0.05 mglL
Alkalinity                                   498 mglL
Total Dissolved Solids                      2913 mgIL
Hardness                                     380 mg/L
Color                                        <5 mglL
Total Organic Carbon                         <5 mg/L
Calcium                                      58.3 mg/L
Magnesium                                   51.9 mg/L
Sodium                                       8C0 mg/L
Potassium                                    2.6 mg/L
Fluorde                         !            0.7 mglL
Iron                            |              ND
Carbonate                                    496 mg/L
Bicartcrate                     I            554 mg/L
Sulfate                                      356 mg/L
Chloride                                     9 83 mg/L
Nitrate                                      1.0 mgiL
Existing treatment in the study area occurs only in the Gaza City wastewater treatment plant,
which was designed to treat 12,000 m3 per day of wastewater. The actual inflows to the plant are
substantially higher than this. The system consists of grit removal, two sedimentation ponds, two
aeration ponds, and an effluent pump station. The effluent presently discharges into a natural
drainage course that flows into Wadi Gaza, which then flows to an estuary and finally to the
Mediterranean Sea (Ref. 2).
The original UNDP plan to Gaza City included an agriculture reuse system and a
groundwater recharge system via soil infiltration beds and a delivery line to the irrigation reuse
area. However, the line connecting the treatment plant to the irrigation reservoir was never
47
@.



constructed. The physical infrastructure has significantly deteriorated due to corrosion and lack
of upkeep (Ref. 2). A thorough assessment of the system is needed prior to including any
elements of the agricultural reuse system in the wastewater treatment plant.
4.9   Existing Solid Waste Management Practices
The Mvfunicipality of Gaza maintains a landfill in the El-Mazraa area which is situated about 7 km
south of Gaza City. The existing landfill has been in operation since 1989 when the old landfill
located at the entrance road to the new site was closed. The current landfill, which is adjacent to
the Israeli border, has a total land availability of 13.5 hectares. It is anticipated that the size of the
site will be sufficient for the next 8-10 years, if substantial industrial development in Gaza City
does not occur. At present, the Municipality of Gaza does not own the land where the landfill is
located. The municipality is currently negotiating with the owners of the property for a 10-year
lease (personal communications with Henri Disselkoen).
The existing landfill site is located at the confluence of three wadis. Two originate in Israel to
the southeast; the third wadi is entirely within the Gaza Strip. The catchmeent of the landfill wadi
is characterized by slightly undulating terrain, which can produce surface runoff in the rainy
months. The subsoil at the landfill site consists of unconsolidated material. Coastal and
continental deposits make up the mainly unconsolidated materials. These materials are dominant
up to about 65-75 m below the landfill site. Groundwater is present under both saturated and
unsaturated conditions in these deposits. The groundwater level of the fully saturated deposit is
approximately 45 m below the surface.
Depending on rainfall ard leachate infiltration rates, a downward groundwater flow could be   V
present in the unsaturated subsoil below the landfill site. The groundwater quality in the
immediate area of the landfill is a function of the quality of leachate that combines with the
existing groundwater below the landfill.
The freshly deposited waste of the Gaza Municipal Landfill consists of municipal refuse of
which 65% is biodegradable organic matter. The moisture content of the freshly deposited waste
may be greater than 50% when first deposited at the landfill. The wastes are systematically
compacted at the site using bulldozers, which first spread the refuse and flatten the material in
lifts before covering it with a combination of sand and sewage sludge.
Leachates that percolate through the landfill are monitored with an under-drain system that
collects both the vertical and crossflow of leachates in the landfill. The under drains are slotted
pipes for colletion of samples of seepage from the landfill and conveyance of liquids to the
central storage tanks, which hold the waters for analysis. All other leachates follow the flow path
of the wadi that is underneath the landfill. The leachates consist of mainly soluble organic
compounds typical of municipal landfills. Organic constituents are mainly soluble organic
compounds such as fatty acids and other low molecular weight compounds that result from
organic decomposition. The inorganics include chlorides, sulfates, potassium, calcium, and
magnesium salts. The leachate can also contain nitrogen compounds such as ammonia and
48



Kjeldahl nitrogen. Based on studies of similar facilities, low levels of heavy metals may also be
present.
The Gaza Municipal Landfill currently accepts all types of waste including industrial solid
wastes and sludge. By 1997, the landfill site will include an area of 0.5 hectares for storage of
hazardous wastes. This facility will be a repository of industrial and hospital wastes and will
have a double-layered liner and a leachate collection system. The Gaza landfill will require that
all hazardous materials sent to the facility be identified, but there will be no restrictions on the
types of materials or quantity (within the limitations of the landfill).
4. 1 0 Archaeological and Historical Resources
The Gaza Strip has functioned as a land bridge that has enabled an important cultural, economic,
scientific, and military exchange to take place over several millennia. Trade caravans brought
goods to Egypt from remote areas such as China, Persia, and the Middle East in exchange for
goods from the Nile Delta, Nubia, the Sudan, and Ethiopia. Military expeditions frequently
passed through the desert. This route has been called Way of Horus, Way to the Sea, Way to the
Land of the Philistines, Via Man's. This route was parallel to the coast, several kilometers inland,
where a chain of archaeological sites can be found indicating the importance of this area and the
numerous settlements constructed along the way to serve the different purposes of trade and
military actions.
The history of this area and the archaeological findings indicate that it was occupied by
different civilizations durina different periods. These periods are the Pharacnic, Assyrian and
Babylonian, Persian, Hellenistic, Roman and Byzantine, Islamic, Crusades, Mamluk, and the
Ottomans. Any undisturbed surface area is potentially rich in undiscovered archaeological
resources.
No systematic archaeological investigations have been conducted in Gaza since the end of th.e
British mandate, which ended in 1948. Excavations conducted since that time were limited to
incidental trenches and soundings to serve specific studies and projects. Figure 4-2 shows the
archaeological sites in the Gaza Strip. According to the Departrnent of Antiquities, no designated
archaeological sites are knowrn to exist at the proposed site of the GIE. Two Pharaonic sites were
found in the general area. This indicates the possibility of the presence of other uncovered
archaeological sites on the site and the need for an archaeological survey prior to construction.
4. 1 Socioeconomic Conditions
Gaza was a part of Palestine under the British mandate from 1917-1948. The Arab Israeli War in
1948 resulted in the current boundaries of the Gaza Strip. This war forced around 250,000
Palestinians to flee to Gaza, increasing the population by about 300%. The huge population
iinflux, combined with the loss of resources and disruption of domestic trade, created an unstable
economic situation. The economic situation continued to deteriorate because of the internal
49



economic and political problems within Egypt, which administrated the Gaza Strip until 1967. In
1967, Israel occupied the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which resulted in Israel controlling the
available resources and the economy of the occupied areas. This situation created almost
complete dependence on the Israeli economy, with many people in Gaza working as unskilled
laborers in Israel (Ref. 6).
The uprising, or Intifadah, started in 1987 and lasted for almost six years. The Israelis
responded with border closures that cut off thousands of Gazan workers from their jobs. The
Gulf War, in 1990, worsened economic conditions. Many Palestinians were forced out of the
Gulf states to return to Gaza and the West Bank imposing tremendous burdens on the Palestinian
economy and infrastructure. Further border tightening cut off about 130,000 Palestinians from
their jobs in Israel.
The current population of the Gaza Strip is estimated at almost one million. The last
population census was conducted by the Israeli Militarv in 1967 following the war. Population
figures have been updated by using an annual estimate of the population growth rate of 5.2. The
refugee camps have some of the highest population densities in the world, estimated at 100,000
people per km2. These refugees, which account for two-thirds of Gaza's population, live in very
poor conditions.
Agriculture accounted for 34.4% of the Gaza gross domestic product (GDP) in 1966 but
declined to 17.3% in 1990 because of limited water resources and the conversion of farmland to
urban uses. Animal husbandry is also limited by the lack of water and grazing lands.
Industry's share in Gaza's GDP was estimated at 13.7% in 1987 but declined to 12.2% in
1990. Construction occupies the largest share of Gaza's GDP estimated at 69% in 1987. Prior to
1988, 70% of Gaza's workforce was employed in Israel. In 1994, this number was significantly
reduced to 11%. Because of the closure measures taken by Israel, unemployment in Gaza is  W
currently estimated at 60%.
50



::::  :::: ::::: ::::::/ISRAEL
Bani~~ ~ S- -yc       -                           Phroni S,itr es Cexcn
0        /hck           Ec~~~~~~~ei Leict,/  S\e
. . -     -  -Rmn..........yzaine  Sits
,,  .   '''  f  0''    '     .... ......     
::-::-:-:: :::-::-0-::-........., ..  .,r
.:::::::: h:rs,a::- [khza                               or reutsnt e  pbis
..........         u ei    Historic   Sites   doin
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fo ::r:u ond Qtt(mnSIT
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 . .   . . . . .. . . . . .. .   . . . . . . ......../<   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                               . . . . . . . . . . ....,,,
................~~~~.                      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... ,,,j
~~~~~~~~~~~.                         . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . .,
.   : :  :    ,    )     :       t        ~        ~                §   <      Gcza A........
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~           ./+ n  Su  .Xa            .      1                    ez Chn c k S i nte
:  < /     Vo                            \   ISRAEL                              * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aproxmat-y3ue Scale
rrV2T   \  /  |  { Num~~~~~~~~~Acheoloicalstn Sites in
Lk7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  . . . .h .S                      .                          fro   Maiu  an.Ut
/\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B)   0  36k
/   j    /           V                                                ,        Approximate Scale...
Vahaniya ~   ~     ~     .......
\...                                                               Loatono
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .                                                                                              Archaelogica SitesEGN 
51~~~~~~~~UbnzcAe



ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
MITIGATION MEASURES
The scope of this EA is to assess the impacts of the proposed GIE with a focus on the off-site
infrastructure, which would be funded by USAID and the World Bank. The off-site infrastructure
is better defined than the on-site industries, which are not know-n with enough detail to
adequately assess their impacts. Sections 5.1 through 5.8 evaluate the impacts of each of the
infrastructural elements taking into account the proposed action and the various alternatives. In
Section 5.9, the overall GIE is addressed, including the on-site infrastructure and the tenant
industries. Since only assumptions about the general categories of tenants exist, this discussion
must be sketchy. Finally, in Appendix H, the EA team looked at the impacts and made
suggestions regarding the emergency or interim phase plan for the accelerated construction of the
GIE. This activity is outside the scope of USAID or World Bank funding but is considered as a
connected action.
On October 28, a scooing meeting was held to gather opinions and concerns regarding the
issues and likely impacts that would be associated with the GIE and, in particular, the off-site
infrastructure elements. Tne results of this scoping meeting are sunmmarized in Appendix B.
Based on these results and the experience of the EA team, other potential impact areas and issues
were added to those that were identified in the scoping meeting. The resulting set of potential
impacts and issues are as follows:
*  Solid and hazardous waste generation-concern that the various infrastructural elements and
the GIE as a whole would produce solid and hazardous wastes that would not be managed in
a way to prevent soil and groundwater contamination.
*  Water quality-concern that the groundwater would be contaminated directly by the GIE
discharges or indirectly through increased salt water intrusion from overexploitation of the
groundwater.
* Water resource availability-concern that the overexploitation of groundwater would deplete
Gaza's dimin;ishing freshwater supplies.
  Socioeconoimic-anticipation of the positive benefits labor-intensive industries would have
on the very high unemployment rates in Gaza.
* Land use-concern that the presence of the GIE and its off-site infrastructure might induce
inappropriate development in the absence of land use controls (housing for workers located
adjacent to industrial uses).
52



c  Lack of ambient standards and discharge limits-concern that the GIE would exacerbate the
lack of environmental regulations because of its timing (before controls are in place) or its
precedent-setting nature.
x  Transboundary concerns-concerns expressed in a memo (Ref. 41) from an Israeli
representative that the GIE could adversely affect Israel because of its location. (Effects
specifically mentioned were odors from the wastewater treatment plant, handling of chlorine
gas, runoff from stormwater, and use of the 1 00-m security zone between the GIE and the
green line.)
X  Emissions from the GIE-particular concern over the emissions from the tenants given the
lack of air emission regulations.
a Energy supply-particular concerns about the availability of electrical power given the lack
of power generation in Gaza and the dependence of Gaza on Israeli electrical power with the
potential for being shut off based on political developments.
* Worker safety and health--concern that lack of occupational safety standards could result in
industrial accidents.
n  Noise-concern that construction or operation of the off-site or on-site infrastructure could
result in hearing, darmage to workers or annoyance to nearby residents.
X  Archaeology-concern that, given the long history of human settlement in this part of the
world, construction of the GIE could result in irretrievable loss of archaeological resources.
n  Flora and fauna-concern that, given the paucity of biological resources in the Gaza Strip
(from urbanization and lack of preservation efforts), the GIE would fuirther diminish these
resources.
a  Loss of agricultural lands-concern that, given the diminishing acreage available for
agriculture in the Gaza Strip, the GIE would result in irretrievable loss of agricultural land.
In the following nine subsections, each of the alternatives in each of the infrastructural elements,
and the GIE overall, were evaluated against these 14 issues and impact areas. The construction
and operational phases were evaluated separately because their impacts are usually quite
different. Also, in each section, mitigation measures are suggested-especially for those impacts
that were judged to be significant or where there was considerable uncertainty. The EA team
judged an impact to be significant based on its duration, magnitude, and extent. Ways to reduce
the uncertainty are suggested in most instances. The evaluation of these impacts was conducted
by developing a consensus of the entire EA team in group deliberations. Thus, it reflects multiple
disciplines and a wide range of experience.
Each subsection below contains a summary table where each altemative is evaluated in terms
of whether the impacts would be significant, minor, negligible or none, or uncertain (but
potentially significant). Also, the tables indicate whether the EA team thought that the impacts
were long term or temporary and whether they would be negative or positive.
53
0



5.1   Vehicular Access Options
Table 5-1 illustrates environmental consequences associated with the different proposed options
for vehicular access. This table is a simplified and a summarized version of the discussion
included in the following sections. Basically, options proposed for the vehicular access have
similar environmental consequences except when the option involves a longer route or wider
access. Other technical and economic differences are discussed in the section on the description
of the proposed action and alternatives.
5.1. I    No-Action Altemative
Tne no-action alternative is defined here as no construction of the proposed off-site inf;rastructure
services. This may or may not be associated with the construction of the on-site industrial
facilities (that is, industries may start moving into the area without planning or off-site
infrastructure support since it has already been designated for industrial use). This action will not
have an impact during construction because roads will not be constructed; rather the existing
roads will be continued to be used. However, heavw use of the badly maintained existing roads
will further deteriorate their condition.
During operation, significant short-term impacts will be associated with stormwater
management. Stormwater will continue to run along existing roads causing more deterioration.
Ponding and soil erosion will be a result of the use of existing roads. Road dirts, including oil
and fuel, may reach groundwater resources if stormwater is not properly collected, treated, and
disposed of. Land use impacts are uncertain, but additional unplanned construction of new roads W
may lead to acquisition of private or agricultural lands or could induce other development.
ArchaeoloQical sites may be subject to destruction by the unplanned construction of new roads.
5.1.2    Vehicular Access Proposed Action (Opton 4 of the Conceptual Plans for
Roads on Northern Side with Extension of Montar Street)
The proposed action, as with all other actions, will generate debris that will need to be properly
handled and disposed of. The impact will be minor and last only during the construction of the
roads. It can be mitigated by allocating a specific disposal site for debris or adopting trench-to-
truck constructin methods. Construction of roads will require minimal amounts of water for
construction activities, therefore, the impact will be minor and of a short duration and will not
impose significant over-drafting concems.
Construction of roads will result in a minor, positive, short-terrn impact on creating job
opportunities. Although construction of roads alone will not create many job opportunities, the
cumulative impact of all construction work associated with the construction of off-site
infrastructure is significant. Operation and maintenance of roads will create a minor, positive,
short-terrn impact due to the need for maintenance and patrolling personnel. To maintain the
54
.



positive significance of this impact, construction work should be designed to be as labor
intensive as feasible rather than machine operated.
The impact on land use during operation is uncertain, but it could be a minor, negative, short-
tern impact due to the expansion of roads after the full development of the industrial areas.
Construction of roads will be associated with a minor, short-term impact of noise during the
construction activities, which can be mitigated by adopting construction management plans that
restrict work to daylight hours. Minor long-term noise may be associated with the use of the
roads by the cars, buses, and trucks expected to serve the industrial estate.
Construction of roads may cause the destruction of archaeological sites. No-known
archaeological sites are found in the vicinity of the proposed roads, but due to the lack of
archaeological surveys conducted in this area, accidental destruction of archaeological sites may
occur. Adopting specific archaeological mitigation and monitoring plans, as described later in
this chapter, is essential.
5. 1.3    Vehicular Access Option I (Rcad on Northem Side of GIE)
This option will have the same environmental impacts as the proposed action. This option differs
from the proposed action in the technical design aspects and the possibility of creating
congestion at some intersection points.
5.1.4    Vehicular Access Option 2 (Road on Eastern Side of GIE)
This option will have the sarne environmental impacts as the proposed action. However, this
action involves constructing longer stretches of roadway, which will increase the magnitude of
the different impacts as well as increase the construction cost. This action will require acquisition
of more lands causing a slighrt increase in loss of agricultural lands.
5.1 .5    Vehicular Access Opdion 3 (Road on Northern Side of GIE)
This option will have the same environmental impacts associated with option 2.
55



Table 6-1
Comparison of linpacts Associatled witb Vctdicallar Access to tboe CIE
Eoti,onoonAolo I.p.otO                        No A,.ion                       Propo..J Actio  (Rood on Nonhon. Sid, .otd ELtoto,io            Opioto I (flood on SotAitrot Sid,)                     Option 2 (Aond oE ottorto Sid.)                        Option 3 (Rood An Nonttro Sb)
Aihlls St ...  )
Solid nod IL.dooo Wo      NO ioostoo   lvolo. s no  NoAoonttocidon iaonlv  jo   io 0A)000tonn nogoc    No imnpo                      S.nAc a dt popo-od aio  No inipacl                    Sa-no  oli proposcd 0-      No ipat                     S.nA LS tho prOpOSod otion  No inipoo
GcAcadoa   BIGPCIS        impzzls                    bp-l duc lo diisp-od WI but slightly    Silco tonoc tUtt                                                                                                          bto  Slightly high'r Sin.. thi
Wo  QJOdily (Wntotnoo,   No ipA                      hloo   o ton. Uso of    dchln tot  o       oi        No inpt                    S       o  ppd   i   No ipact                         So    onI    pp d           No imp                      San          popod lion  No ipc
.nd So    s             .ku   m                                    S will ls...h i . impAS r¢su.SS 60^                                                                                     b.z Siil 5dy hi&b  ,tcom dbi                           boO nligthiy hijor St.c. dIt.
blNoooot     Pnnoso.o oAt                                 -1onoAo.d s-oontot o  otmoinioMooo ,iag by                                                                                              is i-                                           option Is o.go,
GIdonodnoon Qmoioy)                                                            adoqpjotly otttnoing
^ooootttotoocad Inottiotnog
WWo f snA   Av ilobility  NO Coos.no invol- o       N. con-otoon  InoovolS no  Mlitor Soto  0., nognin    No impool dutiot opotoion   Sot on Lto ptpt.d noton  No IbpoI                    SoA. O dto pponosd   ion  No impI                      Sono on. Loo  posd actio   No imopot
ostoplottadolo of         od,Itioodal moon, woittdtomo  ombithioadl mtonniI dio-oo- , ipac don to td o nao  of    Cinoming 'ono. ttdt tot is                                               tUo Jighdy tiooo tItto  hii                            tt olighdy hiul-t Ditio ttis
Otoondonoi                                                                     tinttlc aFasodnoonon of 00000 bi 0055 oOOitttot ptOttioo                                                    opilOm to lotonot                                      option to t--ngor
itood    .. Oftioof c  ooIA  ..-P 
Socitonooodi (lob       -No oonmnnion inooloo no  No moaittooi  inootos no  fitith no WlpSoi               Mino long loon posidtn    Soon n Ito popood notio  Solo In d  popoSod onion  Sti on Io pnpowsd ntion  Soo- n s  iopoo  n
Coo,liool                 00sP job,                 non jot.                   ipo  doting Ito           im.poaJ .. loS o lncood of                                                        bn  lghdy toghl.o tinno hi. bto  flighlty higbo, sb... ttis b.1 Slightly himih, Sinco dhi. bto  Slightly tigh-i nin.. hit
..i.....OOOO-              00,d  WAoOinoltiOI- cod                                                          optlotois liAtgo           optotA it Ioimgo            OpiOn is longot             opdio  to lonSo,
Lond Uc.                  N. kinpci| Uonooai too oWolId onASh io  No inpoot do ing                        Unoo-ti. tot oould A,'otI in No itpo                  Sio ito popod ni.n  No it                                      to popoo  nio No inp                           Soo- 0 d  pnipod  tion
lAys .c.a hgadve bay a       M coaslzuiuo.           I.., Scnnh -esai-c UnlpL IS                                                                                  bX1 bSh'h'IY h     slac ... ... t                      bgt  bi010it  high,,sin00 Itt
Won to Ito -pI-Jd                                    duo to Ltb ooponsiot of fool                                                                                 opion is                                                  I.ngct  opto i so)g-r
Jotolopotn onpotCod                                  to Ito ..yn.o. of th.
ooooooding ptiooo lnod
Lok ofAAmbn:nt nd         No inpoc. No iopoct                                 No                            ;,p,l N A It            No impact                  No iopol                   No inipoct                  N. i,npot                  NO itpto                    No inPacP
Din,otg SwtdAo  nod
fTnonstoonoloo  CPpoos    NO No inpo                No itopac                  NO .ip;ct                  No ihpoot                  No t-It                    No Itpact                  No opo                     No iopot                    NO impact                   No itipaci
Etnibnos tom N.ic. Vio    No.   Itpoo               No npat                    No ipa                     No tpo                   - No itnpno                  No itpaor                 |N  in.pac                  NO iP.Ct                    NO inipoct                  No ilPACt
Eno.a SopPly (A-NilNailiRy  NiP                        impoc                                              No otoac  Ekntiiy          H o   P-                   N. i p-t                   NollpOd                    No impact                   No ioipact                  N.o i,opt
of Elonool P.o..,nd                                                                                      toqoited fno ligfiong is
Deock..s o. b-nc)                                                                                        lli'G                                                                            -    -
Wod,o, Molob od Sototy    N itpos                    Nobipact                  No iptNo ! p_ t                                       Not ipai                   No itIc                    No .oocs.'                  N      -to ipc                                         No in. htp
nn  lfontino Opoonions od
Noi                       No.pur                    No Impt                    tiii  010I ottOnoAgatio   btioaylong 1011-tigoino     Sotoo no , y,n1.p.   t    Scomoot lion 5  , i,opc- sactod nSooni        d     nSpiopn                                      p      acion SAoonnotgo luolold cunoo mi sP
loopaCto innotog 1(1st    topoc4 unuoltiog toot nan                                                        tot t igbiy ttti  Otio mlii, tot ul higlioly Itglmor 011100 lwiii  tot obigtoy Imigl,co Uncc Iti,  o ul ithibly bigloni stono Itt,
ooooioOlcO a oliotttOo   .0 d______                                            ____________________  Of booo  l . oo!linte| ,-~O! tno5nt                          ploiMs botigot             Otpoa io ttoni c-
Olh¢ Impavls Ide.-lifi¢J by~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'ISIl
Lo.  LA   foT..._                                                                                                  __  _  _  __  __                                        __   _  _
A   T,tno agy             No itpAo dut u0 ao           it in. impooU           ll-wcoti imapo."  No       No impact                  S--i no It p -oposod onion  No iltpoot                Soon n   o ppnpoyod ofion  No itipot                   Son-c os do popsod acton  No ittuponi
nOoonOOtotl onynnood      Unpiaooi onidonioijnod      ooi nototcolootUal ninInu tnt,lglt tiolo sin-c dnis
ttt...nn.n. noot conod    too o, but di. Inn                                                                                         opd- -itpI. loo                                            is I-,"
dZouty ao-oolnginAl tins  pmooo.o fCo finditg on
accidontolby dcOoooyiog sibls
doling OOOOOOtlOna motto
Adopt toitigotion mid
floon ond iLJ/4n          No import                  No impac                  No impacdtzil              N o impact                 No imspact                 No inopac                  y(0 utiNact,,              No ihnpo                    NaiqclN    -e'
inn ol*f Agtioutotlt dooijn  No Impot                No itopao                |NO inipact                 Noilo bpon                 No iliopact                No ompoc                   Soono no it pn potod ocon  SnmoB on lion popood action  Ssn    dcp,ad  nudo          Snos Itod piopotd ictuan
tot oligbty t-tgtno ninsc dulmIt tot OlOnlolt b.hiitc tino dd uo  t ihl  ilc sncd^     sliobily btgtoO ninon *bl-s
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i bo .                         oi asr         option is lGno5c            po_________________ ps noga      it toog
* ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                5                                                                      *ron,       anonin 



5.2 Water Supply Options
Table 5-2 identifies the environmental consequences associated with the different options for
providing water to the GIE. This table summarizes the information presented in the following
sections. In general, the options proposed for water supply involve different levels of local
brackish groundwater abstraction with the needed makeup water provided by reusing treated
wastewater or acquiring a provision to purchase water from Mekorot (options 2 and 3). The
major considerations are water quality, water resource availability, and RO reject water
generation and disposal. Other technical and economical differences are discussed for the
proposed action and the alternatives.
5.2.1     No-Action Alternative
The no-action altemative is defined as unplanned industrial development, with or without
PADICO, in the area of the proposed GIE. It is assumed that, because the site has already been
designated for industrial use, industries may move into the area in an uncontrolled manner and
without the benefit of planned off-site infrastructure support services. The no-action alternative
will not result in impacts during construction except for the uncertainties associated with water
well installation, which may be installed either in the upper freshwater or lower brackish water
aquifer as there would be no direct management of the water resources.
The no-action altemative poses uncertainty regarding solid and hazardous waste generation.
There would be no controls on development, and the production of waste brines and/or sludge
from other types of water treatment technologies may be poorly conceived, managed, and
disposed of in and around the area of industrial development.
The impact on water quality during the construction phase is also uncertain because there is
no control on the number of wells that may be installed. Moreover, the negative impacls could be
significant and long-term should the area be developed without a planned approach to set limits
on the draft-rate of the aquifer, thereby increasing salt water intrusion and salinization.
The no-action alternative would have no impact on water resource availability during
construction. However, there would be a significant, negative, long-term impact on water
availability with this alternative because of potentially uncontrolled overdrafts and the lack of a
managed water resource.
5.2.2    Water Supply System Proposed Action
The proposed action would result in an environmental impact related to solid and hazardous
waste generation during the construction phase that would have a minor, temporary, but negative
effect because of pipeline construction. There would also be a possible minor, long-term,
negative impact that would result from the production, conveyance, and disposal of RO process
57
.



reject waters (brines), which result from brackish water upgrade for domestic (drinking, washing, *
ablutions) and limited industrial applications. These reject waters will varv from I to 3 wt %  _
solids and will be high in sodium, chloride, sulfate, and carbonates. The quantity of RO reject
waters may also increase if the future industries require higher quality water. Under the proposed
action, the reject waters would initially be trucked to the coast and discharged into the
Mediterranean Sea (Phase I). When the GIE is fully developed, the RO rejects would be pumped
to the Mediterranean. Regardless of the conveyance method employed, there exists the
possibility of spills along the transfer route. This could adversely impact the quality of the fresh
water. Also, the method of reject water discharge into the Mediterranean has not been defined.
This could result in the potential for improper mixing and dispersal of the reject waters along the
beach front, which could impact the water quality and effect a deterioration of this recreational
resource. While it is apparent that the existing beachfront waters are of poor quality, this will not
likely be the case in the future once improvements of sewerage and sewage treatment facilities
are complete for the Gaza Strip. Mfuch of the existing beachfront water pollution results from
untreated sewage discharges from the Gaza City WWTP, "beach camps," and raw waste from
individual households. Historically, significant water quality improvements have resulted from
adequate control and treatment of municipal wastewaters. With improved water quality will
come increased residential and commercial development in the beachfront area. Hence, the need
to be concerned about the method of RO reject water disposal seems justified. These same issues
are con.mon to option 1, but they would not occur with options 2 and 3 because reverse osmosis
would not be used in these alternatives.
Water quality impacts that would result from the proposed action during construction are
uncertain, but could potentially effect a contamination of the upper freshewater aquifer quality if
proper well installation methods are not employed. More significant, long-termn, negative water    W
quality impacts may occur during operation of the brackish water wells because of increased salt
water intrusion and the potential for increased salinization of this water resource due to overdraft.
There is also the long-term potential for cross-contamination of the freshwater aquifer with the
underlying brackish water because of corrosion of well casings and/or improper installation of
the brackish wells.
Since the sustainable yield of the brackish water aquifer near the proposed well fields has not
been defined, it is recommended that a long-terrn monitoring program be put in place to ensure
that the supply of brackish water to the industrial estate does not result in overdraft of the aquifer.
Based on the previous groundwater studies, the availability of this brackish water resource does
not appear to be a concerm. However, five agricultural wells close to the GIE site currently
withdraw water,om the brackish water aquifer. The projected future water demand for the GIE
is estimated at 3,200 cubic meters per day, which is significant. There are also concerns about the
long-term yield of these wells. Consequently, the recommendation that a long-term water level
monitoring program be put in place to ensure that the supply of "brackish" water not be
overburdened seems prudent. To moderate the effects of increased aquifer salinization, a program
to reduce industrial water use should be implemented at each industry. The program would
involve a combination of wastewater reuse and the implementation of treatment in-place high-
quality water conservation technologies that would permit each industry to reduce its overall
58



water use requirements and, thereby, cut back on brackish well water use. Financial incentives to
increase industrial water conservation should also be considered.
The proposed action would not impact water resource availability during construction.
However, a significant, long-term, negative impact could occur due to overdraft of the brackish
water aquifer because of salt water intrusion and increased salinization. Overdraft of the brackish
water aquifer will adversely impact the water quality and quantity of the overlying freshwater
aquifer.
Because abstraction of water from the Gaza aquifer is a major concern for future water
availability, abstraction from all wells in the region should be monitored. The ute of other water
resources and storrnwater should be reevaluated as the actual water demand associated with the
different water uses at the GIE are more fully defined. Policies for water pricing should be
studied to arrive at approaches to encourage conservation and water reuse as described
previously.
The proposed action would have a minor, but temporary, positive impact on socioeconomics
(job creation) during construction and a minor, long-term, positive impact during operation since
skilled labor will be required for the operation and maintenance of the water supply facilities
throughout the life of the GIE.
The proposed action would have no impact on land use during both the construction and
operation phases of the GIE.
The proposed action would have no impact on air quality, energy supply, and worker health
and safety considerations during the construction phase of the GIE. The same is true for the
operations phase, except for minor, long-term, negative health and safety impacts associated with
the operation of the chemical conditioning activities of the RO unit.
There will be minor, temporary, and long-term negative impacts associated with the creation
of noise during the construction and operations phases, respectively. This noise originates from
the operation of light to heavy machinery for well construction and pumps and mixers during RO
plant operation.
5.2.3    Water Supply System Option I
This option will have similar environmental considerations for solid and hazardous waste
generation as the proposed action. The same water quality issues are common to option 1, but to
a lesser extent because less brackish water is pumped under this alternative.
5.2.4    Water Supply System Option 2
This option will have similar environmental considerations for water quality and quantity as the
proposed action, but to a lesser extent as less brackish water is pumped under this alternative
because of the use of Mekorot water in lieu of RO treatment for potable water needs. However,
59



there is also the potential for a minor, temporary, negative impact during construction associated
with the installation of the Mekorot pipeline under this option. This option would have minor,
temporary, negative impacts on land use during the construction phase. These negative impacts
would continue through the operation of the GIE.
There are also significant transboundary concems under this option resulting from the
installation and operation of a pipeline to carry Mekorot water to the GIE from Israel. There are
uncertainties regarding damage to archaeological sites and impacts on flora and fauna during
pipeline construction with this option.
5.2.5    Water Supply System Option 3
Option 3 may result in a minor, temporary, negative impact on water qualitv during construction
because of the installation of a larger Mekorot pipeline than option 2. However, option 3 is
assumed to provide a significant, positive, long-termn effect on water quality during operation
because a fresh water resource (Mekorot water) would be brought to the site from outside the
area. This option serves to eliminate the need for possible RO treatment of the water for domestic
and industrial use, thereby eliminating the production of brine for ultimate disposal. Option 3 has
the net effect of improving the water cualitv of the Gaza aquifer (provided the MISekorot water is
of beter quality than the available resource) because it permits eventual direct recharge of a
freshwater resource into the upper aquifer when the treated effluent is used for irrigation of local
agriculture. Option 3 also would not impact water resource availability during construction.
Option 3 is assumed to offer a significant, positive, long-terrn effect on water resource
availability because the aquifer would not be pumped during operation of the GIE.
However, option 3 would provide no additional job creation during GIE operation because
water generation and upgrading would occur outside of the Gaza Strip. Tnere are also significant
transboundary concems under this option, which result from the installation and operation of a
pipeline to convey 3,200 m3/day of Mfekorot water to the GIE from Israel and the possible
depletion of a water resource of unknown quantity from outside Gaza. The same uncertainties as
in option 2 regarding damage to archaeological sites and impacts on flora and fauna exist during
pipeline construction with this option.
60



~~~~~~~~~~~t olt                                                               -_                  _ _  -di _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ol,t,! O_N     O__...  ....lm        !    Dl               0        pt       St t    01, D    't1l 'IYI!                    1N"tt1! t°N                                             __ _ tsoIoi  'N soitt! 0N                            d                         lootodt! O10N  PUT1 r-n1l,ooPo y Jo 'to
sdto '! ON                           _O_ 'N                                     ,t                                  s-od- ON                     t ,t N                       ,l! IN                      pto                  tN uo,,,n d.oon    _                                      OO P.  ono
otoo,, tOIjo)° OotbottOP                                       tupnp UOFtSOOtp
r--- t          C'N t   ro-oJoSto d t. os                  todot! mN o so plsolol so ttttr             _tt  O                                                                    dN               r!"'-S  ,dt ON  p! IOtd t!'-qt l      Mtd.! °t          PtIt-td  un001                     .'4OOOtl
-1tJ V3 'T40
_   _ .                           _                                         ,     _       _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo,                                         ga                                                         OAq PtjJo,op1 .ttdool ~l0sC
uoyo F>s>Ioo   00 0,005  tt t pnstdo-ld tr o.to5    oootnptIod.Id    -n -or         p tosde P-,totlJo  t"o 005 oq,t5 ptdOtd SO                           tsotso                         l t°t!) Ot!S OQt p  to t   on             rd     1o        t                 to                                   o
S     I 0N                   tso_    _     'N              It-odt  ON °t                      ! oN      ..!5, Ps-tolod to                                UNs                   p ON  psdt,,, 'ti o tt             N                    oodot ON                    1 rdooo ep    WPS P,0 40111A Ot5
toosltt                      totlt ON                      ttodttt  'N            -      _otO                        I- t-  t--" ION              tsdttt ON                    sdotu o1                    tsodto ON                   tdu  ON            gd01                                    A"o05
tOOt SOOj toOS tjtt0!5  OSOtOOsO    tost  OtojO   O NO   t t    0       (        t  tNt0 0                                t  d   OIN                   0   '(01st.    MN lt               !  ON                 M,d   - O N                   mdo   ON 10-                    .05 -pr        - N   -tOO ootos 3
* mt1Me °F   ~ ~~.pwdr oF                              Fx.mX  9"O                                             I"d.! ON       __'w               ! ON                    xdw! oN        _M vd.! ON                               md!oFPdw ON                                    u   nqY°t
Sotto, 0N                    totI- t ON                     od t!toN                     OttOd  N  _0                         n dt        ON      sotlo '                     I       s0t          ON     13d-'! 010                  oodoo_ON                      d.1o ON          P-0 glqtyJo   11o1
Md.,                                         md~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lOpbobo10OOO,04  .                                                                                                                                    ttslooO
tsod ou            ""A    tp     .                  O  ttt-   -IFq                  wotII                                I                     potdnt 01                     d ptt t otl ONo                            toooq Mtdd     .tt tON nd-!                                  tttttto!olttp
'5,0001 OtOO ----_ "0!°l- 01 ttO50!ttt(  d1 05 uoo!otos  pns.oood tO0tO                         tOtltot_O     to|zsodood n '1, tOO  uult*0I                tsotlo  0N a ! ott!P 00ttStOOtS                         tsodttt sOil       too, 0110500                          tsnetdtO    (natlI1po  atov ton otll> ooo
tooONt                       totoolto, t-s                              osotito- _ttot * -  rtO                                                                00001,O                    oo '-  -tp-ooo-tSn-tot.dt.-oo _            too. .!j ptm _ton t, rN                    ,d lo 1 "         1,00
tt tOttOttt  ooso ptotlsod o ,totS.lt,  ttots0 1soodo  so ooo5  oorts p ot  so  l 00005  to ool  tol  -010000)   00000005Ott
Oootl tgtto 01        O-p oII.                                                   000
tsodttt 0N                       mOO- t4    I ul 0-5          d Ist!ON                     mCottI! IN    p,,.0id -ttolof 00. I to       000050 sIotod'so ONto      -000, otoot Ssoloot,!S                     !l,O0oO ttOOt P.Ot1Y!"! 0001 JOdOltj00001510100 0N  (tOSOM!IA -0100010114)M
Thio0ij(0~~ooot1  oN ~N,~   530t,o,i  i~~~55iNjj~~ooooooto&j   i~j-         OO05;il)    ~ ~             *O40000lOOOJ )Tooij~          Osot.tOtIiJiutt s-¶!iH to  o p"sdj-q2-u  imv!t%!s                                           -Iq O""On           --nml ,14tOO) OOOod
0 OOOttl()                        0 tOottIt)                                                 1.tOoloOt)                                           00~~~tOy pottdo,J                                          oog~~-y 0p                         tt-otdot  !Od.0o. -Si  o3
0b!lJ!0XS Alddh~S J~ll0AOo 1(1.10 pltl!I01500V  Lp1,dtdt( jo UOblIpdlUO



5.3   Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management
Table 5-3 identifies the environmental consequences associated with the different options for
providing wastewater treatment and management of stormwater at the GIE. The table
summarizes the discussion included in the following subsections. All of the options for
wastewater treatment are essentially similar in that they provide for wastewater pretreatment of
each industrial wastewater to proposed specified effluent quality limits (see Appendix F) and
then send the combined pretreated eftluent to end-of-pipe treatment. The end-of-pipe wastewater
treatment options were also similar in that they provide for a combination of wastewater
screening, equalization, biological treatment, post-equalization, tertiary filtration, and
chlorination of treated effluents in each case. The biological treatment technologies used in each
of the options were not significantly different from the proposed action and, consequently, did
not warrant separate impact analysis. Also the biological sludge digestion and drying ootion was
the same for each wastewater treatment system option.
For all options, stormwater is collected from the GIE and combined with the treated effluent
from the end-of-pipe wastewater treatment plant in a final efiluent disposal pumping station for
conveyance to application at an agricultural reuse and g-oundwater recharge site. Therefore, the
impact analysis was conducted by comparing the no-action alternative to the proposed action
only. Wastewater and stormwater disposal methods are considered in a separate impact analysis
section.
5.3.1    No-Action Alternative
For the purpose of analysis, the no-action alternative is defined as unplanned industrial
development with no industrial wastewater pretreatmnent or end-of-pipe treatment of
contaminated effluents. However, it is assumed that since the area has alreadv been designated
for industrial use, it will undergo industrial development with or without the involvement of
PADICO. The no-action alternative will not impact anything during construction because no
facilities will be provided for wastewater treatment or storrnwater management at the site.
During operation, significant, long-term, negative impacts associated with water quality will
occur because of uncontrolled discharges of untreated industrial wastewater to the environment.
These discharges will impact both surface and groundwater and result in unacceptable levels of
toxic and hazardous substances in the environment. These toxic and hazardous constituents will
include heavy metals (such as As, Ba, Cd, Cr, Cu, Pb, Ni, Ag, and Zn) and organic substances
such as aromatics, phenolics, phthalates, and solvents (methyl chloride). Acids, alkali,
surfactants, and dyes may also be discharged and will have an adverse impact on aesthetics, as
well as result in toxicity to local flora and fauna.
These uncontrolled discharges may also have a significant, long-term, negative impact on air
quality in the immediate area resulting from odors and fumes that emanate from industrial wastes
(such as paint vapor controls, alkaline or acid wastes, and spray booth quenches). Uncontrolled
62
0



wastewater discharges will also result in the loss of agricultural land beyond the immediate area,
and these impacts could be long term and severe.
The no-action alternative will set a harmful precedent for noncompliance with certain
industrial categories, which could make it more difficult to regulate industries in the future. It is
also uncertain how these uncontrollable discharges would impact transboundary concerns.
5.3.2    Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management Proposed Action
During construction, the proposed action will result in minor, temporary, negative impacts
associated with solid waste generation, water quality, noise, flora and fauna, and agricultural land
use. However, all of these impacts can be mitigated using standard construction practices and
procedures. What impact construction might have on archaeological sites would also need
special consideration.
The construction and operation of the GIE wastewater treatment facilities would have a
minor, positive impact on employment, primarily in the skilled labor categories.
During operation, the proposed action would result in a minor, long-term, positive impact on
water resource availability because waters treated in the GIE industrial wastewater treatment
facility would be used for irrigation of crop land and aquifer recharge. All stormwater runoff
from the GIE would also be used for irrigation and recharge. The wastewater treatment facilitv
would have a si-rnifican, long-terrn, positive effect on the development of ambient and discharge
quality standards and controls for industries in the Gaza Strip by establishing a favorable
precedent regarding the control of toxic and hazardous substances in industrial wastewater and
sludges. This positive impact would also be extended to the development of standards for
0                 disposal of solid hazardous materials, solvents, and refuse from industnral operations (albeit
minor).
Minor. ..egative, water quality impacts could result from treatment system equipment failures
and/or process performance upsets associated with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities. With stormwater management, effluent quality deterioration can result from the
buildup of sand and silt in the effluent disposal pumping station and the possible presence of
untreated contaminants in runoff from the industrial sites. These same negative impacts can
result from improper management of industrial pretreatment sludges, either at the GIE or the
Gaza Municipal Landfill. However, given that controls at the landfill are already in place, the
impacts would be minor.
Other areas that would experience minor, long-term, negative impacts are air quality in the
vicinity of the sludge drying beds; worker health and safety in and around chlorine-handling
facilities; and noise related to the operation of pumps, surface aerators, and other mechanical
equipment.
63
0



Table 6-3
Comparisont of Impacits Associaled witl WVastewater Treatment anid Stormwater Management
Envrolruinucilal linspacts                                                      No Actiont                                                                                       Proposdcd Action
(Industrial development without plalildng and without wastewater trealtmluet)                        (Industrial wustewater pretreatment with SIlR treatmnent at end-of-pipe)
.._____________________________________________            During Conistrursctian                             During 1p!!tion                                  Dirintig Construction              I                        Ouring Operati-n
Issues Identified at tbe Scopint Session
Solid and llazardous Waste Generation           No impact                                        No impact                                         Minior slaor tenlh negative impact                 Minor long tenn tsegative impact. Potenitial
Water Quality (Wastcwatcr and Stonrwater        No impact                                        Significant lonig temns negative impact           Minior short tcnn negative impact                  Mitor long tents negative impact
Management; Protection of Groundwater Quality)
Waler Rcsource Availability (Ovcrcsploitation of No impact                                       No ittspact                                       No impact                                          Miisor long Icnts positive impact
Groundwater)
Socioeconomic (Job Crcation)                    No impact                                        No impact                                         Minor long tcns positive impact                    Minor long teno posifive impac
Land Uso                                        No impact                                        No itupact                                        No i,sspact                                       No impact
Lack of Ambicnt and Discharge Standards anid    No impact                                        Significant loll tleon ncgative impact fiotn      No illtpact                                       Sigttificant lonig tenn positive impact. Esiatuio I
Controls                                                                                         ulnconltolled discharge of indttsirial swastewaler                                                 ptsofunmance crileria in tine of rcuulations
Transboundaty Conccms                           No itoipact                                     lflce ritl,                                       No inmpact                                         No impact
Air Quality                                     No impact                                        Significant lanug temr ticgativc illmpact resunts itt    No imipact                                 Mittor long tent) negalivc inpact fromii d,yioig
odor atsd f[ilns from ttlscolttrollel discharges                                                   stltdge bcds
Encrgy Sttpply (Availability of Electtic Power attd No itnpact                                   Nit impact                                       NO islipiact                                       No imttpact
Depetadence  on  Israel)                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Worker llcaltb and Safety from Routine          No ittspact                                      No implact                                       NJo imitpact                                       Mitor loitg tessit iegative itiipacs froatt lhandlintg
Opcrations and Accidents                                                                                                                                                                             chlorine and bactctial acrosols
Noise                                           No imnpact                                       Na itopact                                        Miolr shon Icntt trcgative imnpact                Islot -f otg acrtens  egative innipact. Puasp ito'.rs;
stttface aerators and otlher tssecliartical equipnsctrt
OlIttr Inipacts Identified by the EA Teata
Archaeology                                     No inJpact                                      |No inpact                                        Uncertain- No impact
Flon and Fauna                                 No bpac                                          Sigiificat lotg tcrts ncgalivc ilipact           hiialor stotst tcttim itcgativc isipact           Mitor loitg tents positivc itnpact
Loss of Agricultural Land                       No ilSlpaCi                           -igitificanfi 6ng t              ctIIt  egalivo ian1pact    Minost shelitIc triat nnnivc iminpact              Mitor loisg tentt losfi;VC ivnpaci
**AZT63 XI S



5.4   Environmental Consequences and Mitigating Measures for Treated
Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal
Table 5-4 identifies the environmental consequences associated with the different options for
treated wastewater and stormwater disposal. This table summarizes the discussion included in the
following subsections. There were originally three options for effluents disposal proposed in the
GTE wastewater management plan report (Ref. 1). The first option recomrnmended pumping the
treated effluent and stormwater to the UNDP facilities for storage and reuse as irrigation water.
The second option, which is the proposed action, reconunended pumping the treated effluents
and stormwater to Wadi El-Katron for irrigation reuse and infiltration. The final option
recommended storing the treated effluents on-site so that they could be available to local farmers
to haul to their land. All the options involve irrigation reuse and recharge. The proposed action
was preferred because the Wadi El-Katron is less than 3 krn from the planned industrial estate
and a number of farmers along the Wadi have expressed interest in using the water for irrigation
of citrus crops in the region. Presently, a number of these farmers use brackish wellwater for this
purpose.
Consequently, the environmental impact analysis for treated wastewater and stormwater
disposal was conducted by comparing the no-action alternative to the proposed action. Results of
the analysis of environmental consequences and mitigating measures follows.
5.4.1    No-Action Alternative
*  ,     rTne no-action alternative is defined as unplanned development in the area of the proposed GIE
0.        +        with or without the involvement of PADICO. The discharae of untreated wastewater into the
environment will be uncontrolled under this option. Since the site has already been designated
for industrial use, development will proceed without the benefit of a planned off-site
infrastructure support service. This action will not impact anything during construction because
no facilities will be built to support the disposal of the untreated wastewaters.
During operation, significant, long-term, negative impacts on the water quality of surface and
groundwater are expected under this option. These impacts are similar to those described in
Section 5.3.1 for the no-action option associated with wastewater treatrnent. A significant
negative impact on the development of arnbient and discharge quality standards and controls
would also occur as discussed in Section 5.3.1. Similarly, there would be significant negative
impacts on air quality and worker health and safety. These impacts were also discussed under the
wastewater treatment impact analysis. In general, the no-action alternative would result in
significant, long-term, negative environmental impacts associated with plant life and cropland
deterioration.
65
0~~~~~



5.4.2    Treated Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal Proposed Action
The proposed action would involve construction of a pipeline from the GIE to Wadi El-Katron,
where the treated effluents and stormwater would be deposited. In general, the proposed action
would not have an impact during construction except for the possible effect on potential
archaeological sites and the minor, temporary impact on flora and fauna along the route of the
pipeline.
During operation, the proposed option, with its strict controls, would result in significant,
long-term, positive impacts on the development of ambient and discharge quality standards and
controls for irrigation and treated wastewater effluent recharge. As presently proposed, the use of
industrial effluent for irrigation and recharge would require an extensive groundwater monitoning
system to guarantee that industrial pollutants would not deteriorate aquifer water quality. Such a
monitoring program would establish a favorable precedent for the creation of criteria and
regulatory standards for this application.
During operation, the proposed action would result in a minor, long-term, positive impact on
water availability because the treated wastewater from the GIE would be returned to the aquifer
(upper aquifer) during irrigation and recharge. All stormwater runoff from the GIE would also go
to irrigation and recharge. However, the salt content of this water would have a minor, long-term,
negative impact on water quality. In some incidences, it may cause water logging and
salinization of the soils in the area where agricultural activities are occurring. Other potential
effects include the increased incidence of water-borne diseases and increases in agricultural
pests. Nevertheless, these impacts can be mitigated by the liming (Ca(OH),) of the soils in the
immediate area of the treated wastewater application. This will both lower the sodium adsorption
ratio (SAR) and help control potential pathogens in the wastewater. The design process provides
for chlorination of the wastewater prior to its use as irrigation water, which should help reduce
the incidence of water-borne diseases.
The use of high TDS water for agricultural irrigation will require careful management
because these waters can have adverse effects on many crops. Most tree crops and woody plants
are sensitive to high concentrations of sodium and chloride in irrigation water. However, many
annual crops are not sensitive.
The proposed action also provides for indirect groundwater recharge through the process of
streambed infiltration. Water also percolates into the upper aquifer through spread-irrigation
methods. There is a need to establish specific water quality criteria for groundwater recharge (see
Appendix F) to guarantee that pollutants such as nitrate, ammonia, oil, and biochemical oxygen
demand not exceed water quality levels for public acceptance. These water quality criteria need
to be developed before extensive groundwater recharge using industrial effluents is permitted to
occur.
The proposed action would also have a minor, long-tern, positive impact on the development
of farmland and the creation of jobs in agriculture. The net effect should be an increase in the
land available for cultivation or an intensification of crop production in a smaller area. However,
66



** 
Table 6-4
Comparison of Impacts Associate(d withi Treatetd Wastewater anti Stormrwater Dispiosal Methods
£ovir onnieotal Impacts                                            No Actiou                                                           Proposed Action
(Industrial dlevelopment withont planning and witii  uncontrolled effluent    (Irrigation anm  recliarge using WVadi El-Katron for conveyance)
discharge)
During                                                                During
Construction                    Durinig Operation                     Constrijetion |                   During Operation
issues Identified at the Scoping Session        .._ __
Solid and Hlazardous Waste Generation             No impact          No impact                                           No impact          No impact
Water Quality (Wastewater and Sormnwater          No impact          Significant long terI  negative impact uioml discharge ol No impact      i`inor long lerm necgative impact. Tircate( \vasteNvater
Management; Protection of Groundwater Quality)                       untreated wastewater.                                                  to specitied liinils but with higih salinity
Waler Resource Availability (Overexploitation of  No impact          No impact                                           No impact           Minor long teIrII positive impact. Polenlili
Groundwater)                                                                                                                                groundhvater rechiarge
Socioeconomic (Job Creation)                      No impact          No impact                                           No imnpact          Nlinor long term positive impact. More industrial jobs
and continued development of farmland (more
Land IJse                                         No impact          No impact                                           No imnpact         Minor long term positive imopact. Additional laml tor
cultivation
Lack of Ambient and Discharge Slandards and Controls No impact       Significant long tenn negative impact               No impact          significant long tenar  positive iipact. Establish
standards based on need
Transboundary Concerns                            No impact          No impact                                           No impact          No ibmpact
Air Quality                                       No inpact          Significant long tenn negative impalcl. Rcsults in odor No impact      No impact
and fiumes from unconitrollt(e discharge
Energy Supply (Availability of Electric Power and  No impact         No impact                                           No imnpact         No impact
Dependence on Israel)
Worker llealth and Safety from Routinie Operations and No impact     Significant long lerm negative implakct. Direct healtl   No himpact    Mfini(or lung terni negative impact
Accidents                                                            concerns for farmers using hle water or residenis in ithe
viciility
Noise                                             No impact          No impact                                           No impact
Other Impacts Idtenirfiedl by the EA Team_                                          _
Archaeology                                       No impiact         No inspact                                          I hicertaini.      No impact
Votlential
destruction of
Flora and Fauna                                   No impact          Significanit long term negative impact. Plant life  Minor siolrt termi    Minor loug tecm  positive impact. Providing water l;wr
deterioration                                      negative impact    irrigation aroundl the site
duerilg pipeline
coOstnictioin
Loss of Agricultural Land                         No iilpact         Significant long tenti negative impact. Ctrop lahd  No impact          Mi nor long telein positive imlpacl. Provi(ding water lor
dleterioratiock                                                       irrigation around the site
GAZT64Xl.S



these benefits depend on the long-term impact of the salt content of the irrigation waters on crop *
development and yield.                                                                   _
5.5   Solid Waste Disposal
The proposed action for the disposal of solid waste that will be generated from GIE activities
involves the transfer of the waste to the Gaza Municipal Landfill. No other alternatives were
considered to be viable options. The landfill, located approximately 1.5 km south of the GIE, is
operated and maintained by the Mvunicipality of Gaza. Based on conversations with the
municipality, solid waste from the GIE will be accepted at the landfill regardless of the type or
quantity of waste produced.
The proposed action (described in Section 3.8) has been measured against a no-action
altemative. Table 5-5 sumrnmarizes the results of the impact analysis and provides a comparison of
impacts between the proposed action and the no-action altemative. The results are discussed in
detail below.
5.5.1    No-Action Alternative
The no-action alternative involves a solid waste management program that does not transfer the
GIE solid waste to the Gaza landfill. No defined waste disposal mechanism would be available
and, therefore, the waste would be disposed of improperly. Significant negative impacts are
anticipated if the no-action alternative is selected.
If the solid waste from the GIE cannot be transferred to the Gaza landfill, the two conceivable
altematives for disposing of the waste are dump sites and open burning. Although these waste
disposal practices are no longer acceptable in the Gaza Strip, no coutrols are in place to
completely eliminate indiscriminate dumping. Open burning is prevented by local police when
possible as there is an ordinance against this practice.
It is expected that if the waste from the GIE is not channeled to an approved landfill, water
quality and flora and fauna would be affected. Uncontrolled dumping can cause stormwater
contamination from surface runoff and infiltration of contaminants into the soils and
groundwater. Surface runoff and soil contamination can also impact vegetation and sensitive
habitats.
Illegal waste dumping and open burning may occur in vacant areas that are privately or
publicly owned. As a result, conflicts and liability may arise in the future. Also, these practices
may impact land use by altering the conditions of the soils and restricting the use of the land
specifically for agriculture and rangeland purposes.
Tnere is concern for the health and safety of the GIE worklers who will handle the disposal of
solid waste. Without the proper mechanism for transferring waste off site, it would be unsafe for
workers to handle the ultimate disposal of hazardous waste. The implementation of the no-action
68
0



alternative could result in many significant negative impacts. The lack of a proper waste disposal
mechanism would clearly create enviro=nental problems in the Gaza Strip. Transferring the
solid waste to the Gaza landfill would be the most suitable approach to control waste disposal
practices and minimize environmental impacts.
5.5.2    Proposed Action: Transfer of Solid Waste from the GIE to the Gaza
Landfill
The impact analysis shows that minor negative and positive impacts would result from the
implementation of the proposed action. An EA team visit to the Gaza landfill and conversations
with the Municipality of Gaza on the operation of the landfill indicated that the landfill is well
managed. However, since the landfill is not lined and a leachate collection system is not in place,
future disposal of the GIE waste may negatively impact the environmental condition of the
landfill area if hazardous waste is not properly segregated. Based on the type of industrial
operations planned at the GIE, the following categories of wastes will be generated:
3  Mvunicipal waste (for example, domestic trash)
* Industrial waste (solids such as metal cuttings. plastics, and excess material)
N Sludge collected from industrial pretreatment operations
* Residues from the biological process at the proposed wastewater treatment plant
The characteristics of these wastes clearly differ from one category to another.
With the support of the European Union (EU), the municipality is currently constructing a
cell in the landfill area with a plastic liner and a leachate collection system to store future
hazardous waste including industrial and medical wastes. Completion is planned for mid-1997.
Without these controls, the landfill would not meet the standards for accepting hazardous waste
and landfill disposal wouid not be an option. Although a leachate monitoring system is in place
at the landfill, no means for leachate collection is available.
Minor negative impacts could arise in the area's water quality, land use, worker health and
safety, noise, flora and fauna, and loss of farmland. These impacts are long term, however, they
are manageable under defined controls, such as the institution of a solid waste management
program. Such a program would create jobs in waste collection, waste segregation, and waste
transfer and thefefore have a minor, long-term, positive socioeconomic benefit.
The construction of the hazardous waste storage cell and the leachate collection system in the
landfill will complement the proposed action and should be completed as planned. It is
recommended that a simple manifest or tracking system be maintained by the individual tenant
industries to document the materials used in the processes. Waste should be properly manifested
using either material safety data sheets for each chemical used or sample analysis results for the
waste generated. Testing procedures for the waste would vary and would depend on the nature of
69
.



Table 6-5
Comparison of Impacts Associnteil with Solil Wiasic Disposal
Environmental TInpacts                                            No Action                                                           Polposed Action
(Transfer Solid Waste to Gaza Landfill)
During                                                                Dtiring
Construction                    During Operation                      Constrtiction                    During Operation
Issues Idenlirled al fie Scoping Session
Solid and Ilazardous Waste Generation             No impact         Significant long temi negntive impact               No impact          Minor long term negative impact if proper disposal
controls are not adopted
Water Quality (Wastewater and StOrmwater          No impact          Significanit long term negative impact duie to impro per  No impact   Minor long term negative impact if solid waste is not
Management; Protection of Groundwater Quality)                      solid waste disposal may lead to groundwater                           properly managed which could lead to groundwater
contamination                                                         contamination
Water Resource Availability (Overexploilationi of  No imlpact       No impact                                           No impact          No impact
Groundwater)
Socioeconomic (Job Creation)                      No impact         No impact                                           No impact          Minor oilng tena positive imnpact. Create job
________ _______ _______ _______ ________ _______ _______ _______opporitunities   [or  waste   collection
Land Use                                          No impact         Significant long term negative impact due to possibility No impact     Minor long teml negative iilpact. ILand use is altered
of altering land use pattems                                          by expamiing landfill to accommodate waste
Lack of Aibient and Dischiarge Standards and Controls No impact     Significanl long teniut negative ilipact diue to absence of No impact  Minor loig termii negative impact. Absence of controls
control measures                                                      and stand(ards, but evolving good management practices
Transboundary Concemns                            No impact         No impact                                           No impact          No imspact
Emissions from New Firnms                         No impact         No impact                                           No impact          No impact
Energy Supply (Availability of Electric Power and  No impact        No impact                                           No impact          No impact
Dependence on Israel)
Worker llcalth and Safety front Routine Operations and No impact    Siginificant long tencs negative inpact dite to exposurc  No impact    Minor long tlern negative impact. Apply training
Accidenits                                                          of workers to dangerouis wasle handling                                programs
Noise                                             No impact         tic) impact                                         No impact          Minor iong tlenn negative impact cause(d by waste
.  collection activities
Olher ilmpacts lIdeitified by Ihe lEA Team
Archaeology                                       No impact         No impact                                           No impact          No impact
Flora and Fauna                                   No impact         Siginificanit long erim uegative impact as solid wastc    No imipact   Minor long tenn negative impact. Surface mnoff could
may contaminate and harm vegetation and animilals                     canry away wastes to affect vegetation
Loss of Agricultural lIand                        No impact         Significant loig tenn negative impact as solid wvastc    No impact     Minor long term negative impact. I-and will be
may contaminate and laridi croplids                                   acqiuired for expansion of landrill
*                                                                                     et,A7T Xt S                                                                              @7



the data gap such as the unknown characteristics of a sludge or the unknown characteristics of a
solid waste leachate. Once the waste property is known, the waste can be placed in the landfill
cells according to its hazardous or nonhazardous property.
Studies are currently being conducted on recycling and composting opportunities under the
auspices of the EU. These efforts could result in the minimization of solid waste disposal thereby
reducing or eliminating some of the environmental impacts identified in the EA. Incineration has
not yet been considered for the Gaza Strip, however, this treatment approach, when properly
designed and operated, can reduce solid waste disposal impacts on land availability.
5.6 Telecommunication Services
Based on the Off-Site Infrastructure Conceptual Plan (Ref. 11), the preferred alternative for the
te. omrnounication infrastructure is option 3, which is described in Section 3.9. Since the other
two options addressed in Reference 11 were not considered feasible by the parties involved, only
option 3 and a no-action alternative have been further evaluated to determine their impact and
identify mitigation measures. Table 5-6 summarizes the results of the impact analysis and
provides a comparison of impacts between option 3 and the no-action alternative. The results are
discussed in detail below.
5.6.1    No-Action Alternative
*        @         The no-action alternative would be to develop the site into an industrial complex with no
comprehensive telecommunication infrastructure (for example, firms would provide their own
telephone service). Therefore, no communication lines would be connected to the GIE site from
the GCE.
5.6.2    Proposed Action: Dedicated Fiber-Optic Cable from the GCE to the GIE
The EA team's evaluation determined that there are no significant environmental impacts
associated with the installation of telecommunication lines in accordance with option 3.
However, uncertainties and minor negative and positive impacts have been identified in some
environmental &eas. There is the potential that archaeological resources exist in the area where
buried telecomnmunication lines would occur.
Because no archaeological studies have been conducted in the imnmediate area of the GIE site,
insufficient information is available to exclude the possibility that artifacts exist. It is therefore
not known whether archaeological artifacts could be uncovered during drilling and excavation
activities that would be conducted along Highway 4 and the access road. Therefore, mitigation
measures should be taken to ensure that archaeological resources are protected in the event they
are encountered. These are discussed in Chapter 6.
71



Table 6-6
Comparison of Imnacts Associated witli Teleconininnicalion Infrastrtuctuire
Environmental Iimpacts                                       No Actioii                                                               Proposed Action
(Dedicated Fiber-Optic Liine from CCE to GTE)
Durisng Construieio         |         I D)uriig Operation                  Durinig Construiction                   D During Operation
Issues ldentified at the Scnping
Session
Solid and 11azardous Waste Generation  No impact                         No impact                             Mior slrit termf negative impact due to No impact
conistnuction of uindergrotund linies
Waier Quality (Wastewater and       No impact                            No impact                             Minor short term Flcgative impact     No impact
Storrmwater Management;. Protection of                                                                         associated with erosion during
Groundwater Quality)                                                                                           construction
Water Resource Availability         No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No imlpact
(Overexploilation of Groundwater)
Socioeconomic (Job Creation)        No impact                            No impact                             Minor sliort term positive impact     No impact
Land Use                            No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
ILack of Ambient and Discharge      No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
Slandards and Controls
Transboundary Concerns              No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
Emissions from New Firms            No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
Energy Stipply (Availability of Electric  No impact                      No impact                             No impalct                            Minor short temi negative impact due to
Power and Dependence on Israel)                                                                                                                      dependence on Israel
Worker IHealih and Safety from Routinle No impact                        No imntpact                          No impact                              No impact
Operations and Accidents
Noise                               No impact                            No impact                             Minor short terml negative impaict dcte to No imnpact
construction works
Other Impacts Identifiedl by the EA
Team
Archaeology                         No impact                            No impact                             Uncertain. Potential dcsiructiiWo nf  No impact
_archaeological sites
Flora and Fauna                     No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
Loss of Agricultural Land           No impact                            No impact                             No impact                             No impact
-                                         Oro i(I 'R                                                                        a



It is expected that minor negative and positive impacts will result from the development of
the telecommunication infrastructure. The negative impacts relate to solid waste generation,
0                    water quality, energy supply, and worker health and safety. It is expected that construction rubble
will be generated from excavation and paving activities and will require disposal. Also, during
excavation and filling operations, sediment runoff occurring in rainy periods would enter the
stornwater system if erosion controls are not in place. Further, the Gaza Strip currently depends
on Israel for telecommunication. The proposed action would prolong this dependency. Lastly,
workers may be exposed to accidents during construction if safety measures are not instituted.
These impacts are unlikely, can be easily avoided in some cases, and do not represent a major
concern when weighed against the overall benefits.
The proposed action will provide jobs in the short term during construction. This impact is
positive but minor since the quantities and the duration of the jobs created are not significant.
5.7 Provision of Electric Power
The proposed action for providing electric power to the GIE over the short term (Phase I) is to
provide 3 MIW of power from two feeder lines that the PEA would route to the site from power
imported from Israel. Even with this purchased power, a standby diesel generator is proposed.
Because it is premised to be used up to 10 hours per day, the standby generator would probably
supplement the purchased power (rather than serve as an emergency backup); therefore this
analysis evaluates the standby diesel generator as a peaking plant. The ultimate power
requirements (Phase III) for the GIE assume that either a large, new, combined cycle power plant
will be built in Gaza to service much of the Gaza Strip or that a large diesel generator dedicated
to the GIE will be constructed off site. Either of these two power plants would be subject to a
separate EA and therefore only the Phase I option and the no-action alternative are considered in
this section.
5.7.1    No-Action Alternative
The no-action alternative designates that the powerlines and the standby generator would not be
funded by USAID or the World Bank and that the industries developed at the site would
purchase their electricity from the PEA, which in turn, purchases its power from the Israelis.
Because there iino operation of a standby generator, there would be no environmental impact.
The availability and reliability of power would be uncertain, however. The uncertainty stems
from two causes: power provided from the Israelis is nearing maximum capacity of the feeder
lines, and power could be intentionally interrupted because of political circumstances. If the
plans for either a dedicated power plant or a large combined cycle power plant materialize, the
issue of power reliability would be temporary.
73
*



5.7.2    Proposed Action
The proposed action results in few impacts, none of which are significant. Water quality could be
impacted as a result of improper fuel handling and storage. The greatest threat is the loss of the
diesel fuel from the storage container with subsequent contamination of the soil and ultimately
groundwater. Secondary containment (a mound or wall around the container) and impervious
cover inside the containment area are recommended. Although an underground storage tank
would conserve space, the U.S. and other areas with a long history of underground storage tanks
have experienced that the tanks eventually leak and contaminate the groundwate# unless
extraordinary controls and monitoring exist. An above-ground fuel container is more easily
monitored for leaks.
The generator would emit minor amounts of combustion products (carbon monoxide, sulfur
dioxide, oxides of nitrogen) plus some particulate matter and therefore would contribute to a
minor amount of air pollution. Emission controls for small diesel-powered generators are
probably not cost-effective especially given that air quality is not a critical issue in the Gaza
Strip. Therefore, emission control strateaies could focus on assuring fuel quality (low sulfur
content) and upon minimizing the use of the generator.
The generator would also pose a potential noise problem. With some containment and
consideration for the location of the generator, it is not likely that the noise would be significant.
The location of the generator is still uncertain. It should take into account the need for
secondary containment of the fuel storage, the need for noise shielding, and the provision of at
least 30 meters of a buffer zone for dispersion of air pollutants and attenuation of noise.
5.7.3    Option I
The alternative to the proposed action for Phase I is to bury the power lines leading to the GIE.
The initial costs and repairs could be higher for this option. The environmental tradeoff between
overhead and buried power lines is that buried lines are more aesthetic. These are long-term
benefits, but the aesthetic quality is marginal given that there are no visually sensitive resources
in the immediate area. The ditching required for the buried lines would pose a short-term and, at
most, minor impact from runoff of stormwater in the area of disturbed surfaces. But the potential
for disruption of archaeological resources is greater when ditching is involved as opposed to
overhead lines, which only disrupt the surface.
5.8   Environmental Impacts Associated with On-Site Activities
The focus of this EA is on the off-site infrastructural elements. However, for this EA to be a
comprehensive study that covers all aspects and activities related to the GIE project, the EA team
decided to dedicate a separate section to briefly discuss on-site activities and to evaluate the GIE
74



TFable 6-7
Comparison of Iitpacts Associatetd wiill Power Suipply
Eavirounleotal Impacts                               No Action                                                    Prupn,sed Actinl o                                               Option 1/Pitase I
_During Constructio            |      Durig Operation               During Canstriictioji             During Operatilli              During Constructio                 During Operationt
lssucs Idtatlified al the Scoping
Session
Solid and hlazardous Waste     No impact                       No impact                      No impact                      _No impact                        N4o impact                      No impact
Generation                     __                                                                                            I
Water Quality (Wastewater and  No impact                       No inmpact                     No impact                       Minor long term negative iuipact Minor short term impact         Same as proposed action
Stonnwater Management;
Protection of Groundwater
Quality)
Water Resource Availability    No impact                       No impact                      No impact                       No imlpact                      No impact                        No impact
(Overexploitation of
Groundwater)
Socioeconomic (lob Creation)   No impact                      No impact                       Minor short termi positive impact IMillor long tenn positive imapact Minor short term positivc impact Same as proposed action 
Land Use                       No impact                      No impact                       NO impact                       Noi impact                      No impact                        No impact
Lack of Ambient and Discharge  No impact                      No impact                       No impact                       No im]pact                      No impact                        No impact
Standards and Controls
Tranaboundary Concems          No itmpact                     No impact                       No iimspact                    Mhiiofr loIg terni negative impact No impact                      Minor lolng Ierm n  ganivc
AirQuality                     No impact                      |No imipact                     No inipact                      Minor long tern negative impact No inpact                        Satite as proposed actiolt
Energy Supply (Availability of  No impact                      Uncertain reliability becauise of  No iinpact                  Unlcertain reliability. Backup   |No impact                      Samc as proposed action
Electric Power and Dependence                                 total dependence on Israel and                                  generator provides some
on Israel)                                                     no bacliup power                                               measure of emergency power for
some facility operations
Worker Hlealth and Safety from   No impact                    No imilpact                     No impact                      WMnoor long terini negative impact No ittupact                    Same as proposed action
Roatine Operations and
A ccidents__                                                      _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ ___                                                                     _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _
Noise                          No impact                      No impact                       No iupiact                      Mitnor long ternil negitivc miupact No tmnpact                   Suaite ais proposed zictiot
Other Impacits Ildentiitd by
the EA Tcam
XA-Ch-..logy                   NO imnpact                     NO ihlpact                      l(ncertain  Potetial for       NNo imupaPct                    Ulinccrtaitm 0lig term negative    No itmpact
destmtction of archaeological                                   impact
sites
Flofa and Fauna                No impact                      NO iipact                       No itimpact                     No itm pact                     No impact                        No inmPact
Loss of AgricUlturall Land     No impact                      No impact                       No imnpact                      NIO nor s l   tc, to negalivye itnp)act No iin1)act              Same as proposed zSdtio
GA?T61/XtS



as a whole. The scope of work for this EA calls for the assessment of off-site infrastructure
services proposed to be funded by USAID, the World Bank, and possibly other donor
organizations. However, any assessment of GIE off-site infrastructural components must take
into account the benefits and adverse impacts of the on-site activities.
For the purpose of comparing environmental impacts associated with the on-site activities,
the proposed action for the on-site activities assumes that PADICO will develop the site by
adopting a technically and environmentally sound design. The no-action alternative will reflect
the fact that the area has already been designated as an industrial zone and industries will
ultimately move into that area individually or collectively with lirtle or no planing or control.
5.8.1    Environmental Consequences of On-Site Activities
Table 5-9 summarizes the environmental consequences associated with the on-site activities. The
same environmental categories used to evaluate the off-site infrastructure were used here.
Approximately 250 varied individual tenant firms (mostly industrial) are proposed to function
within the planned industrial estate. Figure 5-1 shows PADICO's plans for the ultimate buildout.
5.8.2     No-Action Alternative
In the absence of a planned industrial estate with adequate off-site infrastructural elements,
industries could start locating at the site on an individual basis and begin generating a variety of
solid waste. This could result in a significant, long-term, negative impact during operation of
these industries. There would be no overall control over the production of hazardous and
nonhazardous solid wastes, which could be dumped in an uncontrolled area or landfill. During
construction, generation of solid waste debris would also be uncontrolled, therefore creating a
minor, short-termn, negative impact.
Similarly, the production and treatment of wastewater and stormnwater could result in
uncontrolled discharge into a nearby wadi or onto agricultural lands, or even become connected
to the existing domestic wastewater treatment facilities without pretreatment. This would create a
minor, short-term, negative impact during construction due to uncontrolled stormwater flows and
a significant, long-term, negative impact during operation of the industries due to the improper
disposal and treatrnent of wastewater.
The availability of water resources would not be affected by the no-action alternative during
the construction phase. However, the impact of operation on groundwater resources would be
significant because of the uncontrolled use of domestic supplies and the digging of new private
wells in the area. The water resources are already overexploited. Therefore the improper
utilization of this scarce resource would lead to a significant, long-term, negative impact.
On the other hand, the no-action alternative would create new jobs during construction and
operation. But this impact would be uncertain during operation because industries could prefer
76
0



MeL         -  _                                   I  
*,~..* I  ~                         LIE *On-S Plan
1~~~~~~~~~~  ~.1DAyl63AO
..~~~~~~ ,.I                                             ... I
______ 2    1 i.?iJa2  f1  Tf I                        E[N 1I~'  I                     Lir  sJrLuei. pCro N,riu PL.rs (IOi
I D  I IEIS I E1E1X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1 Ij zoI   b
01SS~~~~- 1 ElllXIJJI~ WT.- C1< 
~_                                        7T  _   g )0  GE O-iePa
tg1~ ~ ~~~__~ -                 __      Lii
1  W         /1XS//X1  ~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PLOTS TO B1E UILIIIZED                -- IDIPAX4RT&RS W*LTI}6INSR
[$';/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M /         O SI(4  l. IJS |DAIC * 9/199L -
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIIIOV *                               y .f i.  j   861   A   00



automated processes to labor-intensive processess (as proposed by PADICO) thereby reducing,
to some extent, the significant socioeconomic benefits of the proposed action.
The no-action altemative would not impact land use during construction, but it would have a
significant, long-terrn, negative impact during operation. Individual industries might not move.
into the designated industrial estate area, but rather could move to nearby agricultural lands.
The impact of the lack of control measures and discharge standards, although minor during
construction, would be significant during operation as placement of firms would be haphazard
rather than planned. Industries would be less inclined to adopt control measures or standards than
they would in a managed industrial estate, thereby creating significant impacts ni the
environment.
The no-action alternative would not impact transboundary concerns during construction, but
would have an uncertain and possibly significant, long-term, negative impact during operation.
Tne severitv of the impact would be uncertain because of the uncertainty associated with the type
of industries that would be built in that area. The type and direction of wastewater, air ernissions,
odor, and so forth would be uncertain.
The construction of uncontrolled industries in the area will not impact the energy supply
during the construction phase. During the operation phase, it could impact electricity reliability
because of the alreadv overloaded electricity lines in this area and the dependence on the Israelis.
If power to the GIE were to be interrupted as a result of political circumstances, the loss of jobs
in Gaza would be similar to a border closing.
The lack of occupational health and safety standards could impact workers during the
operation of these uncontrolled industries. This impact would probably be less significant during  _
the short construction phase.                                                               W
Noise from on-site activities mostly impacts workers. Occupational standards should protect
against hearing loss.
Archaeology could be subject to destruction during the construction phase due to the absence
of control and the individual and scattered nature of development. Therefore, the impact would
be uncertain but potentially significant, negative, and long-term.
Flora and fauna could be subject to adverse impacts because of the uncontrolled disposal of
solid and liquid wastes. This minor impact would be short-term during construction, but long-
term during operation. The impact may not occur in areas remote from the GIE such as the
disposal sites.
Agricultural land could be negatively impacted during construction and operation through
waste generation and conversion of agricultural land to industrial uses.
5.8.3    Proposed Action Alternative
In the proposed action, PADICO will develop the site and USAID and others will fund the off-
site infrastructure. Therefore, the impacts on the different environmental categories will be more
78



or less the same as those associated with the proposed activities of the off-site infrastructure
elements discussed earlier. However, some impacts are specific to the on-site activities.
Construction of on-site activities will generate debris during the construction phase creating
minor, short-term, negative impacts. The operation of the industries could impose minor, long-
term, negative impacts if the hazardous and nonhazardous wastes generated are not properly
disposed of and controlled.
Construction of on-site activities will generate wastewater that will need to be treated.
Improper pretreatment of industrial waste could result in a long-term, negative impact. Assuming
that improper pretreatment is only occasional rather than gross and pervasive, the impact would
be relatively minor compared to no treatment. If stormwater is not properly managed, it would
cause soil erosion and contamination of nearby lands, but the impact would be minor and short-
term during construction and long-term during operation.
Construction would have no impact on the availability of water resources because minimal
amounts of water would be required. However, the impact could be significant, negative, and
long-term during operation due to the scarcity of the water resources. The water resources are
already overexploited and salinized. Mitigation measures should be applied to monitor
withdrawals from the proposed brackish wells as recommended in Chapter 6.
The construction an operation of the on-site activities would have significant, positive, long-
term and short-term socioeconomic impacts. The on-site industries are planned to provide about
-22,000 job opportunities for Gazans. This would reduce the chronic and severe unemployment
and the effects of border closing on employment.
The proposed action will not impact land use during construction but could have a minor,
long-term, negative impact during operation. Future expansion of the industrial estate and the
attractiveness of the availability of infrastructure services could encourage investors to develop
nearby lands.
The lack of regulatory ambient and discharge standards and controls would have a minor
impact during construction and operation of on-site activities. It is assumed that PADICO and
MOI will adopt some or all of the management and control mitigation recommended in this EA,
but the opportunity would still exist for noncompliance without effective monitoring.
Operation of on-site activities could be associated with a minor, long-term, negative impact
as a result of transboundary and ambient air quality concerns. The proposed mix of industries
does not appear to result in major sources of air pollution (characteristic of low-intensity labor)
and therefore, downwind impacts from these labor-intensive operations should be relatively
minor.
Although it is unlikely that the type of industries envisioned by PADICO and MOI for the
GIE would be major emitters of air pollution, there is no guarantee that one or more of the 250
firms would not emit toxic air pollutants. Given that the wastewater and solid wastes will be
collectively managed through off-site infrastructure, air emissions would be the one area that was
not reviewed or managed. At a minimum, there should be some potential review of proposed
tenants based on simple screening using emission factors and activity factors. This is addressed
in Chapter 6.
79



As discussed earlier, the operation of the GIE may have a minor, long-term impact on the
energy supply. The conceptual plans propose the use of a standby generator for peak power.
The impact on worker health and safety is uncertain. The lack of standards and controls
might result in occupational health and safety problems. Therefore, occupational health standards
and emergency preparedness plans should be put in place during the early years of GIE
operations.
Noise will have a minor impact during construction and operation of the industrial facilities.
If the occupational standards for workers are adopted, off-site noise impacts should not be
significant.
Construction might be associated with the destruction of archaeological sites. Because of the
lack of archaeological surveys and the long history of human habitation in the area, the impact is
uncertain. Therefore, archaeological mitigation and monitoring plans should be adopted as
described in Section 6.1.4 and Appendix G.
Noncompliance with the pretreatment and disposal measures could be associated with
adverse impacts on flora and fauna in the area. The same can be said about the loss of
agricultural lands. Given the lack of biological resources on site, the impacts would be minor and
short-term during construction. However, contarnination could evenrually reach other areas
leading, to long-term impacts on the flora and fauna.
80



** 
Tatble 6-8
Compitrison of Impacts Associateti with tle Cotistriuction of On-Site Activities
Environnmcital Ilmpacts                                                               No Action                                                                                              Proposed Action
fturijuisfonstructionl               |                florjsrin5ftljrMtio                                 flirisir fYss,contructiols                               u ring Opseration
Issues Identified at flat Scopilig Session
Solid and Ilazardors Waslc Generation               Minor short erm aegativc impact due to)              Sigil ficati long teltis negative ;IIIpaJt disC la   MIboo shiort ltn llegatiVe itispac dloc la tMlinor long term  iCgative imtipacis dtic to
uncontrolled disposal of debris                     unicontroilcd disposal of hazardous anid noni-       possibility of uncontrolled co0strluction aclivilies   possibility of failure of di5posal and treatment
hazardous solid waste                                                                                      siciltods and capacity and capability of landfill
Watcr Quality (Wastewater and Slornowaler           Minor shor term ncgative ibmpact dec to               igtniicant long  teiln stegalivc impact dile to 00o    Milnor short ltrm  isnpaci due to possibt0 soil    Minor long temi negalivc iittpacts doe to possible
Nlanagcmcnt; Proteclion of Grounidwater Quality) uncontrollcd disposal of wastewater and                 coinrol ott wastewalcr trealtilelt aid disposal     ciosioii fronit stonrnwater                            non-compliattce witl pretreattment requireneots
strlewalter                                                                                                                                                    anid accidental spills
Water Resource Availability (Overexploitation of No itpact                                               Significastt long tesitt imnpact dtie to tisicontrolled   No itttpact                                      Significanit long ternm  iegative itttpacts dItc to
Groundwater)                                                                                             use of do,mestic supplics mid cOsttsaClion of new                                                          withdrawals frottt new wells
wells
Socioccostossic (Job Crcalion)                     Minor shont teno pnsilive impao,t                    hincertain b,t positiv- long tenls impact           Nfiilor lotig tettl positivc iltipact                Sigtilicait long eros positive inpact
Land Usc                                            No impact                                           Significant lottg cois Iiegativc itnpact dute to     No impact                                             NMinior long terit stegative impact ditc to possible
untcontrolled ttiovctttctmt iRtso [tic area                                                               fislute nxpansions
Lack of Antbicstt and Dischtargc Slandards atid     Mintor sbort lenit negative iittpact                Signsificanmt lotig teeist tiegative illipact duIe to  Nlilt,r slrolt tesitt tlegative itlipact            Mitnor long tesict itlipact
Controls                                                                                                 absenice of stansalds assd coirols
Transboundary Concems                               No inspact                                           httcertain insi1sacts, Isotitstries to sitove lo tbe are   No illac                                       Mttinor lotig lenn negalive isnpacis. Couiceris arc
are tslt hsowts                                                                                            waslewalet retine. odor, secility. attd clilinie misc
.ti_ d disposal
Emmissions from New Firits                          No impact                                           ICl itain oegative impacts. No hititatiosm Ott Not n      itaCt                                            lulissor lotig tCIIII iecgativc itililacist  hlsimsty mitix
itidustrics                                                                                               does not appear lo be hiiglt polluting
Energy Supply (Availability of Eleciric Poswer mid No impact                                            t.illott  olig lesill ssegative impact, bIcasise of  No bielact                                            Minor loug tents negative itilpacts. Staitdby
Dependence on Israel)                                                                                   reliability of stipply                                                                                     generator provides a neasure  f'reliatility
Workir Health and Safety front Routine             Minor short rentt negative intpact                   Significalit long tcrtll tlegative iltntact dilc to  No iitipact                                           ltiicetlaill itiipacts but could be iuitior negative if
Opcrations and Accidelits                                                                               absence of occiupationial lealtih amid safety                                                              occupational bealth amid safcty stasnsads are not
standards                                                                                                 adopted
Noise                                               Minor shor teln  niegative itpact                   Sigsilicamt long teeni icegative isipt-,t ldsicis  Nfirot sliel toisn  segative isir1iot                      iorbg tents segaiuve imtact. Pl0tsip tisotos5.
will hiavo thcir owit geiteralors iscierasittg the                                                        ssirface acrators asis otlier tioeclanical equpipment
lisissibor of imisc poiasi_
Other Inpacts Identlfied by thc EA Tesm
argloeogy                                           Uncertain negative impacts. Potelstial destrsction  No issrpact                                          Ilticcslailsty disc to ilie lack of archiacilogical   No isilpact
of arclhacological sites                                                                                 suirvcys atid the absence of visible sites.
Archlscological ssiveys should be stone before
const ructm¢  ions
Flora axsd Fauna                      N             llior shlts bass siegarive isstsacl                  Milaor tIg tot ls siegaivt iveilsct ul-c to         Alisior slit tcisss ie,galivie isst1pa,tl             KbisrIFr losig  te-ts stegatise issssact disc so a cc"i--esial
unonsstrolled disposal of wastes                                                                         spills and isisproper pretrcatissent
Loss of Agricultural Latid                         Milsor slsont cr555 segalivve issiact                  lisuor losg tosis ssegative isspact duc to         Mlsis   sluas t ctlilt Isegative itilpact             Meinolr lobIg tens negative imulpact (itIC to expected
onosistrolled (lisposal of wastes                    _spills asid improper pretreatment
GAZT68.Xl S



FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
This section presents the key findings and mitigation measures for the propose&Aactions and
alternatives. The focus of mitigation is on those impacts that were judged to be either significant
or uncertain (and potentially significant). Section 6.1 presents findings and mitigation measures
that apply to the entire GIE; Section 6.2 presents findings and mitigation measures that relate
specifically to various off-site infrastructure elements.
6.1   General Findings and Mitigation Measures
There are four sets of findings and recomrnmendations that cut across all off-site infrastructure
elements and/or apply to the overall operations of the GIE. These include the following:
*  With one exception, none of the infrastructure alternatives is clearly environmentally superior
to the proposed action.
*  There is a need for a single, on-site, full-time, environmental coordinator.
  A system of individual tenant-specific environmental reviews is needed.
f  There should be a front-end archaeological investigation of all areas where surfaces will be
disturbed for the construction of the GIE, buried cables, roads, and other off-site
infrastructure.
6.1. I    Most of the Off-Site Infrastructure Alternatives Are Not Clearly
Environmentally Superior to the Proposed Action
Finding: With the possible exception of the water supply alternative to the proposed action, none
of the other various alternatives, including the no-action alternative, was judged to be clearly
superior to the proposed action, which takes into account cost and engineering feasibility. The
implication of this is that the focus of mitigation can be on making the proposed action more
environmentally benign rather than on substituting altematives. Nevertheless, Chapter 5 and this
chapter address the alternatives should the project team elect to pursue these. The alternative of
purchasing all of the GIE water requirements from Mekorot may be environmentally superior to
the proposed action because (depending upon the source of the Israeli water) it provides a
82
.



freshwater resource that would be brought to the site from outside the area and would add to
rather than deplete the upper freshwater Gaza aquifer (See Section 5.2.5). On the other hand, the
Mekerot water supply option is linked to a proposal in the peace negotiations in which a fixed
amount of water would be sold by the Israelis to the Palestinian Authority for use in the Gaza
Strip. It is possible that any water provided by Mekerot to the GIE would be included in this
fixed amount. Thus, the Mekerot supply option would not add to the total fresh water supply for
the Gaza Strip. Instead, this becomes an allocation issue to be resolved by the Palestinian
Authority.
Recommendation: None necessary.
6.1.2    The Need for a Full-Time, On-Site, Environmental Ccordinator at the GIE
Finding- The PA has yet to enact legislation that would require environmental controls for new
or existing industries, but draft legislation has been developed. It may be several months before
such lezislation is enacted and possibly years before a full-fledged regulatory and permitting
system is in place. Further, it is uncertain whe+her the eventual regulations will be as stringent as
*         any of the international standards (such as the WNHO, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
World Bank. or European Union guidelines) or whether the PA will adopt regulations that reflect
those in other Middle Eastern countries or some combination of standards and discharge limits
that reflect Gaza-specific conditions (stringent water use and water quality standards but
relatively less stringent air emission limits). Therefore, it would not be reasonable to impose the
0                   most stringent international limits on the GIE and subsequent industrial estates. This could
discourage rather than encourage tenants to locate in industrial estates given the option of
locating elsewhere in Gaza with little or no environmental controls. A balance is required in
stringency, and some mechanism is needed to bridge the time gap between the current lack of
controis and the likelihood that a system may soon be in place.
Recommendation: Most of the mitigation measures that are suggested throughout this report
would be effected through a single, on-site, environmental coordinator who would serve at the
pleasure of the Ministry of Planning (Environmental Protection Division), PADICO, and a donor
agency that would provide the funding for this function. One of several possible arrangements
would be for the environmental coordinator to function as a joint PADICO/EPD staff member
who would report to both the EPD and the PADICO on-site managers but who would be selected
by the EPD and the donor. As a means of institution building, a donor such as the World Bank
should pay the person's salary to minimize the cost impact to PADICO and to reduce conflict-of-
interest pressures. Through submission of periodic reports to PADICO, PIESZA, EPD, and the
donor, the progress of achieving these mitigation measures can be tracked and the environmental
monitoring can be reported. The selection of the environmental coordinator is critically
important. Some of the capabilities and qualities that this individual should have are as follows:
83
*



X A degreed environmental professional preferably with industry and regulatory experience
* A mature individual who car balance the need for industrial efficiency and environmental
protection
X An individual who is committed to the financial success of the GIE and industrial estate
concept and is equally committed to the need for environmental and safety controls
Tne role of the environmental coordinator will be defined, in part, by the recomrnendations that
follow.
6.1.3    Need for Tenant-Specific Environmental Review
Finding: Given that only a general categorization of tenants is available, the impacts of the on-
site activities could not be predicted. To allow for some form of tenant screening-either by
PADICO or other authorities-and to provide for cumulative determination of water,
wastewater, solid waste, and air emission quantities, some form of environmental review and
follow-up auditing are necessary.
Recommendation: The lack of a government permitting system or clearly defined limitations on
specific industries suggest that a simple internal surrogate means of screening tenants for
environmental impacts should be conducted prior to acceptance of the individual tenants. With
the assistance of the environmental coordinator, the owner or operator of the prospective firmr
should complete a questionnaire that addresses the following:                         _
* Number of workers
X General description of process
* Anticipated water demand broken out by potable and brackish water
* Other raw materials required
n Chemicals to be used (such as solvents) and quantities stored and consumed
* Pretreatment requirements for wastewater (may require outside consultant)
* Project quantities by general type of solid and hazardous wastes generated
* Proposed employee health and safety precautions that will be taken
The completed questionnaire would be kept on file at PADICO and, with appropriate guarantees
for confidentiality, would be available for EPD use. These questionnaires would be updated
periodically and would be used as a basis for the environmental coordinator to performn random
audits. Perhaps under the proposed PIESZA legislation, the environmental coordinator could be
statutorily empowered to enforce a kind of "internal permit" between PADICO and the
84
.



individual tenants that would result in surcharges for exceedances of the standard wastewater
pretreatment guidelines. Similarly, the questionnaires could be required to be revised as
conditions change.
6.1.4     The Need for a Front-End Archaeology Assessment
Finding: The Gaza Strip, especially the area in and around Gaza City, has been the site of
continuous human habitation for several millennia. Although no known archaeological resources
exist on site, this does not mean that an investigation would not turn up anv. If construction of
the GIE occurs without an archaeological investigation, there could be an irreversible and
irretrievable loss of archaeological resources.
Recommendation: An archaeological survey should be undertaken of the entire site and any oFf-
site infrastructural components where the surface would be disturbed or paved over. Appendix G
contains specific mitigation language that has been used in previous USAID West Bank proj,ects
and would adequately address the need for an archaeological survey at the GIE.
6.2   Findings and Recommendations for Specific Infrastructure Components
6.2. 1    Roads and Transportation
Findings: The proposed action and the alternatives related to vehicular access did not pose any
significant impacts that require mitigation. Also, the broader issue of transportation was not
identified as a concern during the scoping meeting. However, the EA team believed that there
could be significant impacts associated with transportation if as many as 22,000 persons were
trying to converge on the site at the same time. This would be especially difficult if a significant
percentage attempted this in individual automobiles. However, transportation was not identified
as a significant issue because PADICO has planned relatively few parking spaces, which forces
the employees to rely on mass transit. It was assumed that private transportation firms would
respond to the demand and would provide buses that would transport workers to the site. If a
transportation problem were to occur, it would not be irreversible and would occur gradualIy
enough to permit PADICO to respond. Nevertheless, some precautionary planning, as described
generally below, is recommended.
Recommendations: PADICO, perhaps through the environmental coordinator, should develop a
transportation plan through meetings with private transportation firns and relevant PA
representatives. The goal would be to plan for the need to provide efficient and inexpensive
J        transport of workers to the site. Elements of the plan could include designation of dedicated bus
,  5'  stops and incentives to encourage tenants to stagger work hours to spread out the need for buses
85



and to reduce road congestion. Also, tenants and PADICO should avoid material deliveries or
product shipments during peak commuting periods. The encouragement of mass transportation
would have the additional benefits of reducing air pollution from the increased use of
automobiles and would reduce demand for motor fuels, thus conserving energy.
6.2.2    Water Supply
Findings: The proposed action (option 2) and the alternatives related to water supply pose a
nurnber of significant negative impacts that require careful monitoring and contiol. These
impacts are primarily associated with the water quality and water availability of the brackish
water aquifer. There is also the need to mitigate Lhe potential effec:s of improper RO reject water
disposal during the operation of the GIE potable water supply system. Tnese impacts are less
severe with options I and 3 because less brackish water would be pumped under these
alternatives, and RO treatment for potable water production is not emploved under option 3. The
impact on water quality results from the potential cross-contamination of the underlying brackish
water with the upper freshwater resource and the potential for increased salinizarion of the
brackish water because of salt water intrusion resulting from overdraft of this aquifer. The
sustainable yield of the brackish water aquifer has not been determined for the well fields near
the GIE. Also, the method of reject water discharge into the Mediterranean has not been defined,
which could result in the potential for improper mixing and dispersal of the RO reject waters
along the beachfront. This could impact the water quality and deteriorate this recreational
resource.
On the issue of potential deterioration of beachfront resources, the principal concern was with
the method proposed for introduction of the RO reject waters to the Mediterranean. It is not
defined for Phase I as to how the RO reject waters would be introduced to mninimize adverse
health and environmental irnpacts in the immediate area of discharce. It is the opinion of the EA
tearn that an ocean outfall should be constructed that would permit adequate dispersal of the
reject waters with the surrounding sea. RO wastes for conveyance to the sea could be delivered
by truck to a pump station that serves the outfall. In the future, this outfall would then be
integrated into the reject water disposal pipeline that would be constructed as part of the Phase III
activities.
The EA team is of the opinion that disposal to the Mediterranean Sea is a reasonable option
for the RO reject waters. In addition to the constituents in the Lower Aquifer groundwaters, the
RO reject strearn may also contain chemical additives to control scale formation (e.g.,
polyacrylates and polymethacrylates) and prevent polymeric oxidative degradation of the RO
membranes. In the United States, RO reject waters are sometimes disposed of by "brine
concentration" and chemical fixation of the residue. However, it is more typical to see the use of
solar evaporation ponds. The GIE site does not have adequate land area to use ponds for solar
evaporation, and brine concentration is too costly an option for use in developing countries.
Although not evaluated by the EA team, an option for RO reject water disposal that deserves
an evaluation is disposal of the reject waters at the mouth of the Wadi Gaza. Disposal in this
86
0



manner would effectively augment an existing brackish water wetland that appears to be partly
natural and partly a result of the impoundment of the Wadi Gaza as a result of the construction of
a highway bridge. The existing wetland, which may be the only surface water body in the Gaza
Strip, encompasses an area of 1,500 square meters. The salinity of the water in this area has been
recently measured at 7 parts per thousand (ppt).
Based on the conditions set by the design of the RO system (Ref. 10), the reject water would
average a TDS of 14,600 mg/L (14.6 ppt). [In actuality, this RO system should be capable of
achieving a salt rejection rate of between 95% and 97% across the membrane. At a 10% reject
volune, this could yield reject water at a TDS of 29,000 mg./ or 29 ppt. As noted elsewhere in
this EA, RO reject waters could range from I to 3% dry weight solids and should be high in
sodium, chloride, sulfate, and carbonates. Waters from the lower brackish aquifer average 3,000
mg/L TDS (Ref. 10).]
Depending on the freshwater inflows into the Wadi Gaza over the course of the year, the
salinity of this wetland would be expected to increase sianificantly upon addition of RO reject
water. The existing wetland would not be impacted provided there is no accumulation of
potentially harmful or inhibitory substances in the area. The compounds of concern are the
sulfates, which are formed naturally in the brackish water, and the chemical additives used to
control scale formation and prevent degradation of the RO membranes. The Wadi would
experience a natural flushing with each major rainfall runoff event which would reduce the
salinity and prevent the buildup of potentially harmful substances. However, the imrnediate
impact on the shallow freshwater aquifer is not apparent.
Recommendation: The EA team recommends a study to evaluate the impacts of disposing of the
0                   RO reject waters at the mouth of the Wadi Gaza. This study should include a bench- or pilot-
scale demonstration of the concept of RO reject water disposal in a restricted area wetland. It is
also recommended that a long-termr brackish water aquifer water level monitoring program be put
in place to ensure that the supply of brackish water to the industrial estate does not result in
overdraft of the aquifer. The brackish water aquifer monitoring prograrn should also include
quality measurements for salt content to determine the rate of salinization. To moderate the
effects of brackish water overdraft and increased aquifer salinization, a program to reduce
industrial water use should be implemented at each industry. This water use reduction program
should require a combination of wastewater reuse and the implementation of treatment in-place
water conservation technologies, which would permit each industry to reduce its overall water
use requirements and, thereby, cut back on brackish wellwater pumping. Other water
conservation mn4asures include the use of captured storrnwater runoff to supplement the industrial
brackish water demand and the imposition of financial incentives to increase industrial and
potable water conservation at the GIE. The negative impacts associated with improper ocean
disposal of the RO reject waters can be mitigated by employing an ocean outfall, which will
improve the mixing and dispersal of the brines in the Mediterranean Sea such that their
environmnental impact will be minimized.
87
.



6.2.3    Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Management
Findings: The proposed action related to wastewater treatment and stormwater management did
not pose any significant impacts that require mitigation. However, the EA team identified a
number of issues relating to industrial wastewater pretreatment, end-of-pipe treated effluent
quality requirements, industrial wastewater pretreatment sludge generation and disposal, and
associated impacts on water and air quality that require attention to prevent potential
environmental impacts during operation of the future GIE. The consensus of the EA team is that
these issues will present only minor, negative impacts to th,e environment provi*d that proper
industrial wastewater treatment and sludge management practices are implemented during
operation of the industrial estate. To guarantee that proper wastewater and sludge management
practices are followed, the EA team has made the following recommendations.
Recommendations: It is recommended that the appropriate pretreatment requirements for the
industrial wastewaters generated at the GIE be established as an integral component of the estate
development. These industrial wastewater pretreatment requirements should take into
consideration that the treated effluents will eventually be used for agricultural irrigation and
aroundwater recharge (see Appendix F). Each tenant industry at the CIE should establish a waste
minimization program to reduce pollutant loadings from the industrial site. This could be
accomplished through the creation of a pollution prevention program that may also serve to limit
water use. Each tenant industry should meet handling and disposal requirements for solid and
hazardous wastes from industrial wastewater pretreatments. This will be necessary to minimize
potential environmental impacts associated with the disposal of wastes in the Gaza Municipal
Landfill (see Section 6.2.5). To effectively accomplish these objectives, the following activities
are recommended:
e  Establish a program of monitoring industrial pretreatment effluents and residues
  Establish a program of monitoring stormwater runoff quality from the industrial operations
u Establish effluent quality criteria for SBR treatment to allow unencumbered use for
agricultural irrigation and/or aquifer recharge
* Establish solid waste and air quality criteria for the use of dried biological sludge as a source
of agricultural fertilizer
These recommendations require the establishment of a fully outfitted environmental laboratorv to
perform the required analyses and provide the necessary quality assurance procedures to
guarantee accurate results.
To ensure a consistent design basis for stormwater management, it is recommended that the
off-site infrastructure consultant review and approve all engineering designs for stornwater
collection and conveyance within the GIE. The design storm should be the one-in-five-year
maximum daily precipitation event for Gaza (Ref. 1).
88
0



6.2.4     Treated Wastewater and Stormwater Disposal
Findings: The proposed action related to treated wastewater and stormwater disposal did not
pose any significant impacts that require mitigation. However, the EA tean identified a number
of issues relating to water quality and agricultural land availability that require attention to
prevent potential environmental impacts during operation of effluent irrigation reuse andlor
recharge facilities associated with the GIE. The consensus of the EA team is that these issues will
present only minor negative impacts on water quality because of the salt content of these waters,
which in some incidences may cause salinization of the soils in the area where agricultural
activities are occurring. The use of hign TDS water for agricultural irrigation will require careful
management because these waters can adversely affect many crops. Most tree crops and woodv
plants are sensitive to high concentrations of sodium and chloride in irrigation water. To
guarantee that proper treated wastewater irrigation and recharge management practices are
followed, the EA team has made the following recommendations.
Recommendations: It is recommended that a long-term. water qualitv monitoring program be
established to examine the change in chemistry of the freshwater (upper) aquifer in the area of
agricultural use. There is a need to establish specific water quality criteria for groundwater
recharge to guarantee that such pollutants as nitrate, arnmonia. oil, and BOD, not exceed water
quality levels for public acceptance. These water quality criteria need to be developed before
extensive groundwater recharge using industrial effluents is permitted to occur. To ensure that
the net eff.ect of the practice of effluent irrigation is an increase in the land available for
cultiva-jon or an intensification of crop production on a smaller area, the following activities are
recomrmnded:
x Mlanage the agricultural lands where effluent irrigation is applied in order to moderate the
SAR so that soil permeability is not reduced
n Provide for the addition of calcium to the treated effluents to reduce salinity effects on crop
yield
X Establish a monitoring program that measures changes in soil characteristics and plant yield
in the areas where treated effluents are used for irrigation
These recomme#dations require the establishment of a fully outfitted environmental laboratory to
perform the required analyses and provide the necessary quality assurance procedures to
guarantee accurate results.
Finally, some consideration should be given to an additional altemative involving use of the
Gaza Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plan in lieu of a dedicated plant. This is briefly discussed
in Appendix J.
89



6.2.5    Solid Waste Disposal
Findings: The proposed action related to solid waste disposal did not pose any significant
impacts that require mitigation. However, the EA team identified a number of issues relating to
water quality, solid and hazardous waste management, and ambient and discharge standards and
controls that require attention to prevent a potential environmental impact on the Gaza Municipal
Landfill. Because the Gaza landfill is not lined and leachate collection is not provided, future
disposal of GIE solid waste into the landfill may have a negative impact on the environment if
the wastes are not properly classified (hazardous waste separated from nonhazaidous waste). To
guarantee that proper solid waste management practices are followed, the EA team has made the
following recommendations.
Recommendations: It is recommended that the GIE have a program of waste collection and
segregation to ensure that hazardous materials and solid wastes are kept separate from normal
municipal refuse and other nonhazardous wastes. With the support of EU, the municipality is
currently constructing a cell in the municipal landfill that has a plastic liner and a leachate
collection system for storage of hazardous wastes (industrial and medical). In the future, tenant
industries at the GIE can dispose of hazardous materials in this cell. The cons ruction of the
hazardous waste storage cell and leachate collection system in the Gaza landfill will compliment
the proposed action and, therefore, should be completed as planned. To ensure that there be no
adverse environmental impact, the following activities are recommended:
u  Establish a monitoring program to identify hazardous constituents in the industrial solid
wastes and sludges from the GIE
n Establish water quality criteria for discharge of leachate from the Gaza Municipal Landfill
n  Monitor groundwater and surface water runoff quality from the Gaza Municipal Landfill
These recormmendations require the establishment of a fully outfitted environmental laboratory to
perform the required analyses and provide the necessary quality assurance procedures to
guarantee accurate results.
Finally, some consideration should be given to an additional alternative involving use of the
Gaza Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant in lieu of a dedicated plant. This is briefly
discussed in Appendix J.
6.2.6    Provision of Electric Power
Findings: It may be several years before either a dedicated power plant to meet all of the GIE's
electric power requirements is on line or a large combined cycle baseload plant in Gaza is built
and operating. Thus, for the early phases of the GIE, electric power provision could be an issue.
90



0                   The principal concern is reliability of supply. Reliability is threatened by system overloads and
faults and by the perception that reliance on Israel for electric power could result in a total loss of
power should political circumstances deteriorate. A 2.2 MW backup generator is planned, but it
appears that this generator would be used for peaking power requirements rather than simply as a
standby emergency generator given that only about 3 MW can be supplied to the GIE by the
PEA (which gets all of its power from Israel). Thus, the standby generator (which is premised to
be used up to 10 hours per day) is important as is the need to reduce power demands through
system management and energy conservation. The following recommendations apply to
minimizing impacts from the standby generator and to reducing overall demand.
Recommendations related to minor impacts from standby generator: The impacts from on-
site power generation from the 2.2 MIW diesel generator include noise, air pollution, and
potential fuel leaks and spills from the handling or loss of containment of diesel fuel. Although
none of these impacts were judged to be significant by the EA team, the following mitigation
measures are recomnended, given the uncertainty of the location of the unit vis-a-vis sensitive
recectors:
N  The generator should be shielded for noise abatement if the manufacture cannot guarantee
that the unit would produce less than 85 A-weighted decibels (dBA) at one meter from
source.
*  Products of combustion can be partially controlled through fuel specifications to avoid high
particulates and high sulfur contents. Fuel specifications should be developed consistent with
fuel costs. The discharge stack should be tail enough to adequately disperse contaminants
depending upon the exact location of the unit.
* An underground fuel storage tank was premised presumably to conserve on space and to
minimize risk of explosions. Given the porosity of the soil, the presence of the groundwater,
and the propensity for leaks to occur undetected in underground storage tanks, an above-
ground tank on a concrete pad with secondary containment is recommended.
Recommendations related to overall energy conservation:
* GIE should promote the use of individual solar water heaters to supplement water heating
requirement*
*  Photovoltaic energy should be considered for providing roadway and parking area lighting.
n Skylights and windows should be used to provide natural lighting.
* Although it does not bear upon electric power use, the development of the employee mass
transportation plan will reduce consumption of fossil fuels in Gaza.
*                                                            91
/



*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *                                 - 



0
Top: Lookling southeast from the main entrance of the GIE down an existing paved road leadino to the back-to-back
goods exchange at the El-M4ontar checkpoint in the background. The GIE site is on both sides of this rcad.
Bottom: Guards on the site with the back-to-back exchange in the background. The exchange is the old airstrip used
by the Brtish in the 1940s. A metal shed covers the runway. The near!v bare ground is characteristic of most ofthe
site.
--~~ -                                                                        _a;=
M~E
9 :
9-,



0.S



*II              -~ ..  -~         r'~   ~             Top: From the northwest portion of the site
____________________look-ing along2 the wvest boundanv toward the
South. T'he west boundarv is bordered by
trees and penar cactus (foreground). In the
*       ~~backgzround are hiayfields and pastures in
Left: Near the ceniter of the site looking
-southi with Israel in background. Tne site has
been used b% neighbors for smiall garden
plots and for grazing of goat herds.
95



APPENDIX A
REFERENCES
0
.



1. Abdul G. Qaissaunee, 1996. Gaza Industrial Estate Wastewater Management Plan Report.
2. Robert Gerfeart, Akissa Bahri, and Mohamrnmad Said Al-Hmaidi, 1994. Wastewater
Treatment and Reuse Strategy for Gaza and the West Bank, Water and Wastewater Sector.
3. A Multi-Donor Mission Report, 1996. Assessment of the Industrial Estates Prograrn ard
Next Steps.
4. Donald Rowe, Isam Mahmoud, and Adel Magid, 1995. Handbook of Wastewater
Reclamation and Reuse. Reclaimed Wastewater Quality Criteria, Standards, and Guidelines.
5. Environrnental Protection and Sustainable Development in Palestine.
6. Palestinian Environmrental Protection Authoriry, 1994. Gaza Environmental Profile, Part
One, Inventory of Resources.
7. Environmental Planning Directorate of the Palestinian Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation, 1996. Gaza Water Resources, Policy Directions in Groundwater Protection and
Pollution Control, 1996.
8. Robin Twite and Jad Issac, 1994. Our Shared Environ.ment. Israeli and Palestinians Thinking
Together About the Environment of the Region in Which They Live. IsraellPalestine Center
for Research and Information.
9. Abdul G. Qaissaunee, 1996. Gaza Industrial Estate Project, Wastewater Study.
10. Ben Mvlohaved, 1996. Gaza Industrial Estate Water Management Report.
11. USAID, 1996. Field Conceptual Design for Off-Site Infrastructure Services. Gaza Industrial
Estate Project.
12. Ismail Abu-Shehada, Osarna El-Masry, and Ali Sha'at, 1995. Structural Plan for Gaza City,
Roads and Transportation.
=  13. Gerald McDernott, 1992. Environmental Assessment of Establishments Slama Freres, Tunis,
Tunisia.
14. Gerald McDermott, 1992. Environmental Assessment of Ennadhafa JUDY, Tunis, Tunisia.
15. Dames and Moore, 1992. Environmental Assessment Guidelines. Draft Manual. USAID
Mission to the Republic of the Philippines.
16. USAID, ASSET Project Literature. Planning Steps for Environmental Screening.
17. World Bank, 1994. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Volumes I. Policies, Procedures,
and Cross-Sectoral Issues.
18. World Bank, 1995. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Volume II. World Bank
Technical Paper Number 140.
*                  19. World Bank, 1994. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Volume III. World Bank
Technical Paper Number 154.
20. Environmental Scarcity and Violent Conflict: The Case of Gaza, June 1995.
21. Palestinian Hydrology Group, 1995. Present Situation and the Future Developing of Water
Resources in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
22. Palestinian Energy Research Center, 1995. Electrical Energy Status in Gaza Strip, Analytical
Study.
23. Ser Enger, 1974. Environmental Assessment Guidelines Manual. USAID.
A-1
/



24. Palestinian Environmental Protection Authority, 1995. Gaza Environmental Profile, Part Two
and Part Three.
25. Shoshana Gabbay, 1994. The Environment in Israel. Ministry of Environment.
26. CDMNMorganti, 1996. Environmental Assessment of the Master Plan for the Water Supply
System for the Jenin Area.
27. Arabtech-Jardaneh, 1995. Gaza Industrial Estate, Master Plan, Volume I, Final Report.
28. Arabtech-Jardaneh, 1995. Gaza Industrial Estate, Market Study and Financial Analysis,
Volume 2, Final Report.
29. Ba Kader A., Al Sabbagh A., Al Glenid M., and Izidien M\I., 1983. Basic Paper on the
Islamic Principles for the Conservation of the Natural Environment.
30. Carl Maxwell and Jeffrey Goodson, 1995. Annex B, Initial Environmental Examination for
the Gaza Wastewater Project.
31. Gaza Municipality, 1995. Priority Projects Program for Gaza City (1996-2000).
32. The Wrap Task Force, 1994. Palestinian Water Resources. A Rapid Interdisciplinary Sector
Review and Issues Paper.
33. Said Abu Jalala, Khalid Qalman, and Ali Shaat, 1995. Emergency Structural Plan for Gaza
City: Assessment of Water, Sewage, and Solid Wastes.
34. Project Assistance (HBO3) Appendices, Appendix 2D: Environmental Procedures.
35. Project Area and Major Existing Stormwater/Wastewater System Components.
36. Ministry of Industry, 1996. The Agreement Signed Between MOT and PADICO.
37. Environmental Protection Directorate, Palestinian Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation, 1995. Emergency Resource Protection Plan.
38. Palestinian Ministry of Industry, 1996. Final Legal Framework Draft.
39. Palestinian Water Authority, 1996. Elements of a Palestinian Water Policy.
40. Government of the Netherlands, 1996. Draft GAZA Seaport Environmental Impact
Statement.
41. Summary of the agreement signed between PADICO and MOI.
42. Applied Research Institute of Jerusalem and the Environmental Law Institute, 1995.
Proposed Palestinian Law for the Protection of the Environment.
43. Memorandum by fax from S. Kanto to J.C. Starnes regarding the Gaza Industrial Estate,
November 1, 1996.
44. Interview with Mario Zelaya, Senior Projects Officer, the World Bank.
45. The EA teanm was assisted in the biological overview of the site by Nadia El-Khodary, a
biologist with the Environmental Protection Division of the Ministry of Planning.
46. Interview with Dr. Jaber Naser of the Department of Industry.
A-2
0
/



0                                                                  APPENDIX B
SCOPING SESSION MEETING NIINUTES
0
0
~~~~~~~~~~~. . ...  ,  .. ... ... 



Meeting Minutes
Scoping Session for the Gaza Industrial Estate
Held at Shawa Center
October 28, 1996
Introductions
Mr. Tom Staal (UISAID): Mr. Staal started the meeting by introducing the role of USAID. He
indicated that the USAID office in Tel Aviv focuses on the development of the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip. USAID, in cooperation with MOI, the World Bank, PADICO, and other donors,
is providing support for the development of the GIE. USAID will contribute U.S. $6 million to
the development of the off-site infrastructure. The GIE will serve as a mechanism for creating
jobs in the Gaza Strip and developing cooperation between the Palestinians and the Israelis and
between the Palestinians and other countries.
ivfr. Staal added that the envirorunental scoping session is intended to identifv environmental
3       issues. The EA is a requirement before the initiation of the GIE project. There is urgency in the
;       GIE report; as a result, the EA is on a fast track. Input from the audience is needed. The final
Nreoro will be in English. The scoping session will be presented in both English and Arabic.
Mr. Abdul Rahman Naim (MOT: Mir. Naim introduced MOI attendees. He thanked the various
parries involved in the GIE project, specifically USAID, World Bank, and EA team, and Shawa
Center for providing the auditorium to conduct the scoping session.
Mr. Bob Davis (Environmental Assessment Team Leader (EHPA: Mvr. Davis introduced the EA
team and described the role and responsibilities of each member. He also presented the ground
rules for the meeting.
Nfr. Fawaz Abu Ramadan (PADICO): Mir. Abu Ramadan stated that the GIE project and other
f.future similar projects are the result of the Palestinian Authoritv (PA) commitment to promote
economic growth and to attract local, regional, and international investors to the Gaza Strip.
PADICO is committed to channeling these investments into the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.
PADICO is a SI billion company with affiliates providing services in areas such as tourism, real
estate, housing, and industrial investments.
*  Mr. Abu Ramadan added that the GIE is located in a strategic area: 3 km from Gaza City; 25
km from Gaza airport; 5 km from the fuiture Gaza seaport; and 1 km from a road that connects
into roads leading to Egypt and Israel. The site area is 485,000 mi2, of which 70% will be
industrial and 30% will consist of roads and offices. The built-up area of each industrial lot will
represent 80% of the site, and 20% will contain services. The GIE is expected to provide 22,000
B-1



jobs and contain 250 firms in the final stage of the development. The GIE project will be
implemented in a three-phase approach. These phases are as follows:
n Phase I:
60% of the infrastructure
25% of the built-up area
* Phase II:
20% of the infrastructure
25% of the built-up area
* Phase III:
20% of the infrastructure
50% of the infrastructure
The emergency phase is expected to be completed by the end of January 1997 and will consist of
the following activities:
* Installation of a fence
* Foundations Standard Factory Buildings (SFB)
* Steel and finishes for SFB
*  Administration building
* Infrastructure
Presentations
Mr. Jonathan Hodgkin (EHPT: Mr. Hodgkin presented the different options for the off-site
infrastructure that were evaluated in previous studies conducted by other consultants. He also
pointed out the preferred alternatives based on the conceptual plans and other studies.
Ms. Sana Hamadv (fEHP: Ms. Harnady presented the environmental irnpacts associated with the
off-site infrastructure . She demonstrated the EA team approach to evaluating the environmental
impacts that may potentially result from the off-site infrastructure development.
Dr. Ivad Abumoghii (EHP): Dr. Abuinoghli presented USAID environmental assessment
requirements. He described the EA process that will be followed by the EA team and explained
the scoping session requirements and types of impacts.
B-2
//



Mr. Mario Zelava (World Bank): Mr. Zelaya indicated that the impact on public health should be
considered in the process.
Comment Period
Mr. Savved Aliadba (Gaza Municipality) indicated that the quantity and type of solid waste that
will be generated from GIE activities are unknown. The municipality cannot plan for the disposal
of the waste unless additional information is made available.
Dr. Abdul (aissaunee (UJSAID consultant) responded that in one of his most recent studies he
had included an appendix that contains information and altematives for solid waste disposal. He
recommended that PADICO haul out domestic waste to the landfill or sign a contract with the
municipality for solid waste pickup. To manage hazardous waste, the "cradle-to-grave" concept
should be instituted.
Mr. Henri Disse!koen (Consultant. EU) pointed out thar the solid waste issue is important and
that PADICO should make arrangements with the municipality for waste disposal. The
municipality will be able to handle the hazardous waste since an area in the landfill will be ready
by mid-1997 to accept hazardous waste. Disposal cost for nonhazardous waste is $5 per cubic
meter while disposal cost for hazardous waste is anticipated to be $35 per cubic meter.
Mvfr. Atef Jaber (EPD/MOPIC) expressed concern about the capacity of the Gaza landfill and
whether the landfill should be used for hazardous waste. He suggested that a new landfill be
dedicated to hazardous waste generated by GIE. He also asked questions about the type and
quantity of waste that will be generated and of any recycling planed for the future.
Dr. Frank Castaldi CEHP) explained that the Gaza landfill can be used for waste produced bv GCE
since a cell will be dedicated to hazardous waste.
Ms. Sana Hamadv (EHP) explained that the EA team did identify the type of waste that will be
produced and has some estimates of the quantities. This information is based on the mix of
industries planned for the GIE.
Mr. Sami Drabih (EPD/MOPIC) questioned the security and the legal arrangements, that is, how
to deal with Israel, the relationship between MOI and PADICO and between PADICO and other
companies, the control and management of the GIE, and the agreements signed in Cairo and
Washington.
B-3
0
//



Mr. Mario Zelava (World Bank) said that there will be studies to address environmental
management.
Dr.Yousef Abu-Safieh (Committee on Natural Resources, PLC) questioned the contents of the
Industrial Estate Law. He said the law requires that production be for intemal purposes and not
for export.
Mr. Abdul Rahman Naim (MOI) indicated that the discussions are ongoinc to address
environmental management, monitoring, and the MOI responsibilities. The Industrial Estate Law
has been revised. The law is not specifically for Gaza.
Mr.Tom Staal (USAID) clarified the on-site versus off-site infrastructure. The tvpe of industries
is limited by environmental resources.
Mr. Bob Davis (EHP) said that the EA team will consider on-site and off-site when thev are
related.
Mr. Muin Madi (PADICO) explained that there are no limitations to the type of industries. Tnere
is already an approved mix of industries for the GIE.
ivfr. Mohsen Ghazali (USAID) asked why other studies conducted by other consultants were not
addressed in the presentation and how the stormwater was going to be managed.
Dr. Frank Castaldi (EHP) indicated that the EA team is aware of these studies, but they were not
included in the presentation due to time limitation. Stormwater will be combined with the
wastewater.
Mr. Mohammad Al-Wali (Ministrv of Agriculture) expressed concern about groundwater
availability. He suggested using two wells located in the north that can provide nonbrackish
water. The possibility of families who will have ajob at the GIE moving near the site was
brought up as a.potential impact.
One individual asked if a cost-benefit analysis will be included in the EA.
Dr. Frank Castaldi(EHP) responded that such an analysis will not be included.
B-4



Mr. Muhammad Almuqaied (EPD/MOPIC) asked if the EA covers the GIE area only or the
entire Gaza City area. He expressed concern about archaeological sites and the wastewater that
may be discharged in the Wadi Gaza.
Mr. Yasser Al-Nahal (Environmental Research lnstitute) commented that there is no absolute
positive or negative. However, since heavy labor is expected, the environmental impact is
expected to be significant.
Dr. Ativah AI-Eglah (MOH) inquired about the future distribution of the industnes within the
GIE. He also asked if there will be new types of industries or if the GIE will absorb industries
that already exist in the Gaza Strip; if the treated was.ewater can be used for all agricultural
purposes; and how are the residues from the reverse osmosis handled.
Mlr. Haider Noon (Mfetcalf and Eddv) discussed the collection and treatment of the industial
wastewater during the emergency period. The existing wastewater treatment plant has a capacity
of 12,000 m3 per day and currently receives 15,000 m3 per day. The plant may not be able to
handle the flow from the GIE.
Ms. Rima Abu Middein (PWA' indicated that more information is needed to understand the
impact on the environment. The type of industries and chemicals used, the physical
characteristics in the GIE area, and emnergency response procedures are some of the questions
that need to be addressed.
Mr. Yousef Al-ituqaied commented that all aspects of environmental impacts should be
addressed.
B-5



0                                                                 APPENDIX C
LIST OF INVITEES
0
.



SUGGESTED LIST OF INVITEES TO THE ENVIRONIMIENTAL
ASSESSMENT SCOPING SESSION
USAID
Carl Maxwell - Chief Engineer/Nfission Environrnental Officer
Thomas Stall - Project Development Officer
Mohsen Ghazali - Project Engineer
Ministry of Industry
Dr. Nasr Jabr - DG
Abdul Rahman Naim - Industrial Estates Director
Baker Thabat
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (Physical Planning)
Dr Kamil El-Shami
Mvlinistry of Planning and International Cooperation (Environmental Unit)
Jehad Safi - Agricultural Engineer
Moharrmmed Al Muqaid - Water Pollution Expert
Wae'l Safi - Water Engineer
Palestine Development & Investment Corporation (PADICO)
Amin Hadad - Project Manager
Fawaz Abu Ramadan - Technical Manager
Christine Shmidt - Marketing Manager
Muinm Madi - Consultant
Ministry of Agriculture
Mohammed Al-Wali
Ministry of Public Works
Hisham Mater - Civil Engineer
Ministry of Health
Atiah Al-Ejlah
Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PICDAR)
Nfinistry of Posts and Telecommunications
Samir Abdalqader - Planning Department
Palestine Energy Authority (PEA)
Fadel Skaik - General Manager
Dr. Rafiq Mauha - Director of Generation
Palestine Water Authority (PWA)
Monthar Shoblak - Head of Section
Municipality of Gaza
Maged Abu Rahma - Head of Planning Department
C-1



Hussain Abu-Zaid - Head of the Sewerage Department
Adjacent Land Owners
World Bank
Alistair McKechnie - Div Chief PSDlInfrastructure
Judith Press - PSD Specialist
Nagy Hanna - Principal Officer
Environmental NGOs
Palestinian Women's Organizations
Ministrv of Economics
Ministry of Local Authorities
Ministry of Housing
Yaser El Ashkar - Dept of Surveying
Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
Aleram Ejla - Director
Yasser Hassuna - Head of De?artment
Gaza Chamber of Comrnmerce
Gaza Chamber of Industries
Islarnic University
Israeli Electric Corporation
Mekorot
Ministry of Environment (Israel)
C-2



0                                                                 APPENDIX D
LIST OF ATTENDEES
0



List of Attendees
Scoping Session for the Gaza Industrial Estate
Held at Shawa Center
October 28, 1996
Name                           Position                           Organization
Tom Staal                  Project Development                  USAID
Carl Maxwell               Chief Engineer                       USAID
Abdul Qaissaunee           Consultant                           USAID
Mobsen Ghazali             Project Engineer                     USAID
Bob Davis                  EA Team Leader                       Environmental Health Project (EHP)
Frank Castaldi            | industrial Engineer Specialist      EHP
Jonathan Hod-kin           Environmental Engineer Specialist    EHP
Sana Hamady                EA Soecialist                        EHP
lyad Abumoghli             EA Specialist                        EHP
Abdul Rahman Naim          Director                            J Ministry of Industry (MOI)
Baker Thabet               Engineer                             MOI
Sami Abu Zarfa                                                  MOI
Mahmoud Erhim              Hydrologist                         | MOI, Dept. of Natural Resources
Fawaz Abu Ramadan        TIE Technical Manager                 | PADICO
Muin Madi                 | Consultant                          PADICO
Mario Zelaya             T_Senior Projects Officer              World Bank
Judith Press              | PSD Specialist                      World Bank
Hussam Abudaggaa                                                World Bank
Shams Al-Wazir             Coordinator                          Center for Engineering and Planning
(CEP)
Omar Muhasien              Engineer                             CEP
Samir Abdel Kader          Engineer                             Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications (MPT)
Ghada Nassman              Engineer                             Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications (MPT)
Henri Disselkoen           Consultant                           European Union
D-l



List of Attendees (Continued)
Name                          Position                          Organization
Rifat Diab                 Engineer                            CEP
Ben Gesers'                Consultant                          European Union
El-Sayed Elgadba           Head Engineer                       Gaza Municipality
Rezik Negim                Managing Director                   Gaza Municipality
Majed Abu Rahman           Engineer                            Gaza IMlunicipality
Rima Abu Middain           Administrator                     [ Palestine Water Authoritv (PWA)
Monther Shoblak            Engineer                            PWA
Mohammad Fadel Skaik       Electrical Enginner                 Palestine Energy Authoriry (PEA)
Mohammad Alwali            General Director                    Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Hassan Abu Etah          | Director of Field Services          MOA
Haider Noori               Project Manager                     Metcalf & Eddy
Hisham Mater               Civil Engineer                      Ministry of Public Works
Alaedeen Shawa             Director                            Development Resource Center, DRC
Bassem Al-Ashi             Research Coordinator                DRC
Yousef Abu-Sefieh        j Chairman                            Committee on Natural Resources, PLC
Atiah Al-Eglah           r                                   | Ministry of Health (MOH)
AtefJaber                  Planner                             Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC)
Muhammad Al-Muqaied                                            MOPICfEPD
Wael Safi                                                      MOPIC/EPD
Sami Drabih                                                    MOPIC/EPD
Yasser Al- Nahal           Vice-president                      Environmental Protection and Research
Institute (EPRI)
Husam Al-Najar             Sanitary Engineer                   EPRI
M. Abu Mourad              Research Assistant                  EPRI
Bassem Abu Shaban          Engineer                            Gaza Ministry of Planning
Norihird Noda              Leader                              JICA Study Team
Ulf Sorensen               Engineer                            JICA Study Team
D-2



List of Attendees (Continued)
Name                         Position                           Organization
Kamil El-Shami            Director of Land Use                MOPICI Physical Planning
Jawad Audeh               Engineer                          J|CA Studv Team
D-3



*                                        APPENDIX E
LIST OF PERSONS
CONTACTED BY EA TEAM
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



List of Persons Contacted by EA Team
Abu Shammalah, Mohammed - Land Use Expert, Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC).
Abudagga, Hussam - World Bank.
Al-Muqaied, Mohamrnmed - Water Resources Protection Departrnent.
Austin, John - Senior Technical Advisor, USAID.
Disselkoen, Henri - Management Consultant, European Union.
El-Hawi, Mustapha - Solid Waste Department, MOPIC.
El-Khodary, Nadia - Environmental Protection Directorate, MOPIC.
El-Nahhal, Yasser - Vice Chairman, Environmental Protection and Research Institute.
Ghazali, Mohsen - Project Engineer, USAID.
Goodson, Jeff-rey - Bureau Environmental Officer, U.S. Department of State.
Jaber, Naser - Director General, Ministry of Industry.
Jaber, Atef- Solid Waste Department, MOPIC.
Mfadi, Mfuin - General Manager, Madi and Partners Consulting Engineers.
Mfaxwell, Carl - Chief Engineer, USAID.
MfcKechnie, Alastair - Division Chief, the World Bank.
Naim, Abdul Rahman - Director, Nlinistry of Industry.
Noori, Haider, - Project Director, MIetcalf & Eddy.
Press, Judith - Senior Private Sector Development Specialist, the World Bank.
Qaissaunee, Abdul - Consulting Engineer, CA-BE Associates, Inc.
Safi, Wa'el - Wastewater Department, MOPIC.
Shoblak, MvLonther - Water/Wastewater, Palestinian Water Authority.
Staal, Thomas - Project Development Officer, USAID.
Starnes, John - USAID.
Thabet, Baker - Engineer, Ministry of Industry.
Zelaya, Mario - Senior Projects Officer, the World Bank.
E-1
0.



APPENDIX F
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT



Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment
This appendix presents a discussion of industrial water quality requirements and wastewater
pretreatment criteria for a number of industries that may take up residence at the future GIE. The
information presented in this appendix is based on information PADICO provided on the
proposed mix of industry types and on additional information the EA team developed on the
possible character of typical industries in the light-to-medium manufacturing range. The data
presented in this appendix are provided as a guide to assess the impacts of industrial
development on water supply, wastewater treatment, and effluent disposal by agricultural
irrigation and recharae to the upper aquifer.
The development plans for the GIE indicate that 70% of the site will be industrial and the
remainder will be roads and offices. The mix of industries planned for the GIE includes
garments/textiles, construction industries, electric appliances, shoes/leather, data processing,
automotive parts, agro-industries/food processing, hardware, pharrnaceuticals, and jewelry.
However, the specific type of industry within each of these broad categories has not yet been
established. The areas on the site have been allocated to small, medium, and large factories,
which will generally house light-to-medium manufacturing operations. The industries will be
genera'y labor-intensive, employing large numbers of individuals performing repetitious
production activities.
Table F-I presents water quality standards for industrial use for a possible rmix of light to
medium manufacturing operations. Tnese data indicate that the brackish water to be provided for
industrial use would not generally meet the water quality requirernents of these manufacturing
processes. Consequently, RO process water will be needed to meet both selected industrial water
quality requirements and domestic (drinking, washing, ablutions) water needs. To the extent that
desalinized water is made available at the GIE, this could result in the use of RO treatment for
brackish water upgrade at each tenant industry. The quantity of RO reject waters may also
increase if the future industries at the GIE require higher quality water.
Table F-2 presents information for the possible character of selected industrial wastewater at the
GIE. Depending on the industries identified, the industrial wastewater may contain acids, alkali,
solvents, suspended solids, dissolved and colloidal organics, heavy metals, dissolved solids,
soaps, fats, oils, and grease. Some of these constituents are highly biodegradable and can be
effectively treated in the proposed GIE wastewater treatment facility. However, others will
require treatment in a dedicated industrial wastewater pretreatment facility to meet acceptable
effluent criteria for agricultural irrigation and groundwater recharge.
Table F-3 presents data for heavy metals that may be present in selected industrial wastewaters
from light to medium industries. The most important metals for reclaimed water applications are
arsenic, boron, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, iron, lead, copper, mercury, nickel, and selenium.
The concentrations of these metals in treated wastewater are important in irrigation applications
F-I
0.



because they may shorten the lifetime of an agricultural site through the accumulation of a given _
metal or a combination of metals in excess of the biological toxicity threshold.           _
Heavy metal discharge-s have a number of options for control of metals in their discharges. They
may either modify their manufacturing process to reduce the loss of a given metal or pretreat the
wastewaters to remove the metal entirely. When an industry applies a process modification to
reduce the loss of metals, it will also effect a reduction in the overall pollutant load. Such
practices as applying spray rinses to reduce drag-out from plating baths and recycling rinse water
from washing operations are typically cited as process modifications. Pretreatment methods for
heavy metals removal from wastewater usually involve oxidation, reduction, neutralization,
precipitation, clarification, and filtration. Metals recovery methods include evaporation, reverse
osmosis, electrodialysis. and ion exchange.
Table F-4 presents possible pretreatment unit operations for organics and metals in selected
industrial wastewaters. In addition to the control of hydraulic overloads or temperature extremes,
the pretreatments presented in Table F-4 are designed to reduce excess amourts of oil and grease,
highly acidic or alkaline wastewaters, suspended solids, organic wastes, inorganic wastes, heavy
metals, organic colloids, and odorous or corrosive gases. These pretreatments are designed to
mitigate any impacts on the GIE wastewater treatment facility that mav result from materials or
circumstances that interfere with, or upset, the biochemical activity of the SBR process. These
include high variability in waste organic content, high organic loading for extended time periods,
waste components at potentially toxic levels, nutrient imbalances, and pH extremes. The type of
pretreatment selected depends on wastewater characteristics, applicable pretreatment standards,
and anticipated production changes that may affect wastewater characteristics.
Table F-5 presents suggested industrial wastewater pretreatment limits for the GIE wastewater
treatment facility (proposed action). These pretreatment limits are designed to meet the industrial
wastewater mitigation requirements of the GIE wastewater treatment facility and to provide a
pretreated wastewater with constituents acceptable for use as reclaimed water for irrigation.
Concern is for the total minerals, heavy metals, and stable organic substances in the industrial
wastewaters. This pretreatment requirement assumes that the GIE wastewater treatment facility
will be effective for the removal of BOD5, COD, TSS, and nitrogen from the combined industrial
and domestic wastewaters generated at the site. However, provision is not made for the removal
of dissolved salts (for example, sodium, chloride, sulfate) from the treated wastewaters. The
concentrations f sodium, calcium, and magnesium ions in water used for agricultural irrigation
must also be corsidered. High sodium concentrations will reduce a clay-bearing soil's
permeability and affect soil structure. When calcium is the predominant cation adsorbed in the
exchange complex, the soil tends to be granular and readily permeable. When sodium
concentrations are high, the clay particles are dispersed and the soil permeability is reduced.
Sodium levels in the GIE combined wastewater can exceed 800 mg/L, and the calculated SAR
for the waters is greater than 18 or more than twice an acceptable level for irrigation reuse.
However, the extent of sodium accumulation in the soil depends on the concentration of sodium
F-2



in the irrigation water and the rate that it is removed by leaching. The addition of calcium to the
impacted soil andlor the irrigation water will have a mitigating effect.
To allow for safe reuse of reclaimed water for agricultural irrigation, the WHO criteria
recommends that wastewater be biologically treated plus disinfected to produce a coliform count
of not more than 100 coliform organisms per 100 ml (Ref. 4).
F-3



.



*                                                                                                                    0 
Table F-i Possible Water Quality Standards for Industrial Use
Industry         Color        Alkalinity      Chloride      1-lardless       Iron         Manganese          pHI
ppm       ppm (CaCO3)        ppm        PPpm (CaCO3)       ppm             ppm
Textiles                5              -              -             25             0.1            0.01          6.5-10
Plastics                2             <1             <5             <5            <0.01          <0,01          7.5-8.5
Pharrnaceutical         2             <5             <5             <5            <0 01          <0.01          7.5-8.5
Soaps                   5             50             40             130            0.1            0.1              -
Paint                   5             100            30             150            0.1            0.1             6.5
Gum and Wood           20             200            500            900            0.3            0.2           6.5-8.0
Fruit and
Vegetable Canning       5             250            250           250             0.2            0.2           6.5-8.5
Soft Drinks             10            85              -              -             0.3            0.05
Leather Products        5              -             250            150            50               -           6.0-8.0
Constniction
Materials            -             400           250              -             25             0.5           6.5-8.5
Reference: Indlustrial and I lazardouis Waste Treatment, Nemiler-ow and Dasgurpsta, 1991



Table F-I  (Continued)
ln(dlstry        Sulfate         TDS            TSS          Calcium       MaLgnesiumii    13icarbonate      SiO2
ppm           ppm            ppm            p ppn           ppm            ppm             p pm
Textiles                -            <100             <5             -               -              -
Plastics                <1            <1              <2             <1             <1            <0.1            <0.1
Pharmaceutical          <1             2              2              <1             <1             0.5            <0.1
Soaps                  150            300             10            30              12             60             <0.1
Paint                  125            270             10             37             15             125            <0.1
Gum and Wood           100            1000           30             100             50            250              50
Fruit and
6    Vegetable Canning       250            500             2             100             -              -             <0.1
Soft Drinks             -
Leather Products       250             -              -              60             -               --
Constrmction
Materials           250            600             100             -              -              -              35
Reference: Indulistrial an( I Iazar(louIs Waste Treatment, Nemnerow and Dasgupsta, 1991



Table F-2 Possible Character of Industrial Wastewater at GTE
Industry                  Origin of Waste           |Characteristics
Metal Plating             Stripping of oxides,       Acid, metals, cleaning
cleaning and plating of   solvents
metals
Glassware                 Polishing and cleaning of   Color, Alkaline
glass                      nonsettleable suspended
solids
Plastics (molded)         Spills and equipment wash  Acids, causfic, dissolved
downs                     organic matter
Paint and inks            Solvent-based rejected     Organic solids from dyes,
*  materials, scrubber waste   resins, oils, and solvents
I from paint vapor control
Glue manufacture          Alkaline and acid washes   Dissolved organics, heavy
retals (chromium), and
acid / alkali
Canned goods              Trimming, culling, juicing, Suspended solids,
and blanching of fruits and colloidal and dissolved
vegetables                 orzanics
Dairy products            Dilutions of whole milk,    Colloidal and dissolved
separated milk, butter     organics, mainly protein,
milk, and whey            fat, and lactose
Leather goods             Soaking and alkaline       Dissolved and suspended
washes                    solids, colloidal and
dissolved organics
Meat and poultry products  Rendering of bones, fats,   Dissolved and suspended
zreases, and wash water    organic matter, protein,
residue                   and fats
Pharmaceutical products    Spent filtrate and wash   Suspended and dissolved
waters                     organic matter
Wood furniture            Spray booth quenches       organics from staining and
sealing wood products
Soap manufacture          Washing and purifying      Dissolved organics and
soaps                      saponified soaps
0                                                                    F-7



Table F-3  Light to Mediimn Indtistries witih Possible Occurrenice of Certain Metals in Selected In(dustriail W*istewater
Industry                  As       Ba        B        Ct       Cr       Co        Cul      Fe        Pb       Mtn       i1        Ni       Se       A         Zn
Wire drawing             _                   X                                    X         X     _
Metali lating                                X        X         X        X        X         X        X         X                  X                  X         X
Alloying                  X                           X                  X         X             . .           X        X         X                  X         X
Automotive parts                                          _    X            .__   X         X        X                                                         X
Glassware                 X         X       X     -                X    _X_                 X                                X                    __X
Ceramics                  X   X         X         X        X       _X_|   X                                    X                           X
Porcelain                 X                  X        X              |_       |   X         X        X         X                  X        X         X         X
Plastics (molded)                                     X            _  _                        _                        X   .
Paint manufactre                    X                X          X         _       X                  X         X        X         X        X      __           X
Cosmetics                                    X                                                                          X
manufacture                                             -            |   -        -      _                  _        |         _
Ink manufactuire                 .__                           X      _                                        X                               _    X    _
Animal-glue
manufacture                                        _           X              |                                                                   _     _.
Footwear manufactiure     X                  X                 X                           X
Carpet production                            X        X                              _                                                     x
co     Photographic supplies                        X   X              X              _                      X                  X                  X        X
Textile manufactiure                              |-   X             _             X         X                 |                            X                   X
Food/ beverage
processing                                                .                  __|            X                                |
Printin                _                              X            _                                 X      _                    X                            X
Television tube
manufacture                     __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _     X               __ _ _      ,   -   _ ___      X       ___ _            __ _ _ _  _ _ __ _  _ _ _       X
Jewelfi manufacture                  |                      _                     X 1                                            _     I-
Electrical/electronics
manufactuire                       Wra                              e    __       X              _hh_i_at    M _l_alof  X                  X         X
Soulrce: WVater E,ivironriient Federationl, P'retreatin cut of IilsIist ri;al \Vast es, ~TI u uan;l of l'r;lcicc No.lFD-3, 19)94
0



Table F-4 Possible Pretreatment Unit Operations for Organics and Metals in
Selected Industrial Wastewater
Industry                               Pretreatment Unit Operation
Food processing
Dairies                  Equalization and whey separation
Meat, Poultry and Fish   Screening, clarification oQ.lotation, and
coagulation / precipitation
Fruit and vegetable      Screening, equalization, clarification,
canning                  neutralization, and coagulation /
precipitation
Pharmaceutical                         Equalization, neutralization, coagulation I
products                               precipitation, and adsorption
Plastics (molded)                      Coagulation / precipitation, clarification,
and adsorption or chemical oxidation
Textiles                               Equalization, neutralization, coagulation /
precipitation, and adsorption
Leather tanning and                    Screening, gravity separation,
finishing                              neutralization, and coagulation/
precipitation
Metal Plating                          Alkaline chlorination of cyanide,
reduction and precipitation of chromium,
and precipitation of other metals
Glassware                              Precipitation and clarification
Paint and inks                         Coagulation / precipitation and
clarification
Wood fumiture                          Evaporation and burning
Glue Manufacture                       Chemical precipitation and flotation
Soap Manufacture                       Flotation and skimming, precipitation with
CaCI,
*                                                               F-9



SIJGGESTED PRETREAT- UENT LBUITS
Parameter            Discharae Limit               Reference
(mg/l)
BOD5                            400                        1
COD                             500                        1
TSS                             400                        1
PK, S.U.                      6.0-9.0                      1
TKN, asN                        50
A-mmonia, asN                   35                         1
NO-33, asN                      10
Oil and Grease                  40                         1
Fluoride                        1.0                        4
Arsenic                        0.10                        4
Cadmium                        0.01                        4
Chromium (Total)               0.10                        5
Copper                         0.20                        3
Cyanide                         0.3                        3
Lead                            5.0
Nickel                         0.20                        4
Selenium                       0.02                        4
Silver                         0.25                        2
Zinc                            2.0 
Boron                          0.75                        4
Cobalt                         0.05                        4
Toluene                         0.1                        2
Modified from "Gaza Industrial Estate Wastewater Management Plan Report" for
USAID, by Abdul G. Qaissaunee, November 12, 1996
I. Plant specific limits
2. Activated sludge inhibition
3. Nitrification inhibition
4. RecomrAended limits (long-term use) for constituents in Reclaimed water for
irrigation (Ref. 4)
5. Typical sewer ordinances
F-10



APPENDIX G
MONITORING PLAIN
FOR ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDIES
0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



Monitoring Plan for Archaeological Studies
0                    Since the final routings for the off-site infrastructure related to the GIE Project have not been
established, it is difficult to argue that archaeological impacts are not a significant issue. The
development of an archaeological monitoring plan ensures that important archaeological
resources are identified, avoided, and documented to the maximum extent feasible in the design
and construction of water/wastewater system, telecomrnunication, energy supply, and
transportation facilities. A detailed statement of work for archaeological investigations should be
developed once off-site infrastructure locations are identified. It will be the responsibility of the
architectural and engineering finn to engage an archaeologist to carry out the monitoring plan
lb                   requirements of the EA.
The archaeological investigation associated with the Gaza Industrial Project will be designed to
minimize the potentially adverse impact that facility construction and operation could have on
know-n and unknown resources. The investigations are proceeding in step-wise fashion, each step
involving greater and greater detail over smaller areas. Early phases of the work have consisted
of literature searches to assemble known information concerning an area, followed by field
surface surveys by trained professionals to determine the likely presen.ce of historically important
resources in certain areas. Inforrmation gathered during these efforts will be incorporated into the
preliminary engineering and environmental analysis of this project.
The method of studies will differ among different types of facilities. For example, since the
location of water transmission and distribution mains can be adjusted to account for obstacles,
the detailed examination of the routes of these alignments for archaeologicaily important
resources will be conducted at the time of final design. Adjustments can be made at this stage to
avoid important resources, without significantly altering the overall water.
On the other hand, since major facilities such as pump stations and treatment plants cannot be
moved without corrupting the overall plan, it is important to conduct a more comprehensive
assessment in the planning stage, such that the likelihood of adverse impacts on archaeological
resources is minimized. Thus, for the well sites and location of storage tanks, the archaeological
investigations conducted as part of the planning have included walkover surveys of significant
areas to minimize the possibility of problems later. The central purpose of these walkovers is to
note the existence of surficial artifacts and structures that would indicate resources of a more
important nature that need to be avoided.
Following the planning phase, more detailed archaeological investigations are proposed
concurrent with the design and construction phases of the project. These will include the
following:
G-1



Design Phase: For pipelines, water reservoirs and well fields, roads, cormunications, and
energy facilities, field investigation work will be conducted along specific alignments and
locations to important resources. These studies will include surficial surveys and detailed transect W
surveys where warranted. If any such resources are noted, then decisions will need to be made
whether to adjust the alignment and locations, or to document the resources prior to
commencement of construction.
Construction Phase: During excavation, it will be possible to uncover resources that have not
been previously uncovered. To provide for proper treatment of the archaeological resources
during this stage, on-call archaeologists will be retained during excavation.
G
G-2
0



APPENDIX H
CONSIDERATIONS OF PADICO'S
PROPOSED EMERGENCY OR INTERIM PHASE
CONSTRUCTION PLANS AT THE GIE
Il
4
.



.                                      Considerations of PADICO's Proposed Emergency or
Interim Phase Construction Plans at the GIE
As noted in Chapter 3 of this EA, there are three phases for the construction and operation of the
GIE. In late 1996, PADICO proposed an accelerated construction schedule that would begin
limited construction of the GIE but would not require the provision of significant off-site
infrastructure. The legal necessity for this EA is to satisfy USAID and World Bank requirements
for projects where EA funding is involved. Because USAID and the World Bank do not intend to
provide funding for this interim phase, which would begin before the end of 1996, this EA has
focused on the original plans for the three-phase buildout rather than the interim phasing plan.
Nevertheless, because this interim phase does pose environmental issues and is directly
connec=ed to the overall project, USAID agreed with the EA team to include this cursory
evaluation of the environmental impacts of the interim phase.
Section 1 of this appendix briefly describes the interim phase. Section 2 identifies the advantages
and araurnents in favor of the plan. Section 3 identifies problems and conc-rns. Section 4
suggests mitigation measures that could be made contingent upon future USAID (and/or World
Bank) funding in the event that the interim phase plan goes forward.
Section 1-Description of the Interim or Emergency Phase of the GIE Construction
To accelerate the provision of jobs and to provide a tangible sign of economic opportunity to the
many unemploved residents of the Gaza Strip (the unemployment rate has been estimated at up
to 60%), PADICO has suggested that initial construction of a portion of the GIE begin
immediately with planned completion at the end of January 1997. According to PADICO, at
least 12 firms have signed letters of intent to move onto the site as soon as the interim phase
construction is completed.
The elements of this interim phase plan are as follows:
;  Installation of fence around the construction site
a  Site leveling, foundations, and construction of several standard factory buildings
* Construction of the administration building
X  Installation of a pipe that would connect with the city of Gaza water system for the provision
of 300 m3 of potable water
n Construction of a single water well to provide brackish water for industrial use
* Construction of a sewer line to send untreated and domestic sewage to the city of Gaza
wastewater treatment plant
U Provision of some telecommunications connections
H-1
*1



The wastewater that would be generated by the industrial activities would be stored during the
day in a 1,000 cubic meter containment vessel and would then be pumped to the wastewater
treatment plant during the night when the wastewater volume from the city is lower than during
the day.
Section 2-Advantages and Arguments for the Interim Phasing Plan
n The principal rationale for the plan is to accelerate employment opportunities and to provide
a tangible sign of hope to the people that economic relief may be on the way. Some of the
violence associated with the Intifadah and the more recent protests and violence in September
1996 are believed to be attributable to frustration over the pace of the peace process and the
accompanying anticipated benefits of economic progress. Therefore, the tangible signs of
industrial development and job opportunities may reduce the likelihood of future outbreaks
of violence in the Gaza Strip.
X  An argurment for the interim phase plan is that there is nothing to prevent this group of
industries from constructing and operating at available sites in the Gaza area without any
environmental controls. Thus, even if the treatment of their wastewater discharges is not
effective and if their water supply strategy is not optimnal, the impact these industries would
have on the environment under the interim phase plan would not be long-terrm (assuming that
off-site infrastructure is eventually provided).
x From an economic perspective, implementing the interim phase would minimize or avoid
financial losses that PADICO may incur if the GIE project is delayed. PADICO has alreadv
signed an agreement with MOI and has already cornmitted investments towards the project.
The interim schedule would allow PADICO to begin to recoup its investment. Delays in
construction and operation affect the financial viability of the industrial estate. To the extent
that the viability of the industrial estate is adversely affected, the costs to tenants would
increase and the attractiveness of siting in an industrial estate would be diminished.
Environmental management is more easily accomplished when industries are collocated in
industrial estates. Thus, the long-term control of industrial impacts is best accomplished
when industrial estates are financially viable.
X  Tnere are advantages in initiating the interim phase because it would move the project
forward and possibly accelerate the decision-making process in the selection of feasible
alternatives. PADICO and other project proponents are concerned that the study of options
could be prolonged unnecessarily because of administrative (such as funding-related paper
work) and pblitical factors.
Section 3-Concerns and Potential Problems with the Interim Phasing Plan
* Given the uncertainty surrounding the existence of archaeological resources below the
surface of the site, it is possible they could exist and therefore be disturbed and lost forever
H-2



unless a survey by qualified archaeologists is conducted and it is determined that construction
at the site would not affect archaeological resources.
n  The Gaza wastewater treatment plant is overloaded and is only providing marginal treatment
to the wastes it now receives (aeration ponds are inoperative). Sending additional wastewater
to the plant, even at off hours, might not avoid additional overloads, and, in any event, would
not result in the degree of treatment as would be provided by the off-site wastewater
treatment plant dedicated to the GIE.
* The proposed interim phasing plan does not address industrial wastewater pretreatment or
stormwater management needs. In the case of stornwater, this could result ii the
uncontrolled release of contaminated storm water runoff from the site, whicEh  ay have a
deteriorating effect on the environment adjacent to the GIE.
a The construction of the water line, the wastewater line, and the sewage containment structure
could be a long-term, unnecessarv cost depending upon the option selected for the provision
of water. Arguably, this investment could be better spent on long-term environrnental
controls.
*  The immediate construction and leasing for future occupancy at the GIE could result in some
of the tenants avoiding environmental controls that would be in place for future tenants.
Immediate construction and leasina do not allow sufficient time for mitigation measures to be
fully developed.
*  One of the benefits of PADICO's plans for the GIE is that it will be possible to segregate
facilities into zones to prevent inappropriate adjacent uses (such as an auto painting firm and
*;)           a food processing firm with possible cross contamination). If only a portion of the site is
available for a diverse mix of firms, then the advantage of zoning would be defeated.
Section 4-Conclusions and Recommendations
The decision as to whether USAID and the World Bank should agree to fund the off-site
infrastructure for the GIE (should PADICO proceed with the interim phasing plan) is a policy
decision that must weigh the plan's economic and other benefits against the short-term
environmental uncertainties and impacts as well as any irreversible environmental impacts.
A compromise solution would be for the donors to agree to fund the off-site infrastructure for the
GIE and for PADICO to be allowed to move ahead with the interim phasing plan. This would
occur provided that any irreversible impacts be mitigated and that the initial tenants agree to any
environmental mitigation that is eventually required of the other tenants (rather than to allow the
firms to be "grandfathered" out of the system or to force decision makers into hasty, poorly
conceived plans for mitigation).
The irretrievable and irreversible impacts that should be covered include the possibility of
damage to archaeological resources and the construction of facilities to accommodate the interim
H-3



phase that would interfere with the optimal placement of off-site infrastructural elements for the ^
GIE's long-term future.                                                                _
In short, a potential compromise would include three provisions:
* There would be a legally binding means by which PADICO and its tenants agree that the
initial tenants would conform to whatever future mitigation and controls are required for the
other tenants. It would be reasonable to place a limit on the uncertainty that the initial tenants
would face-say 6 to 12 months.
X An archaeological survey would be conducted of the entire site.
*  The uncertainties regarding the exact placement of the various off-site infrastructure
elements, including the wastewater treatment plant and the standby generator, would be
resolved.
An additional approach to mitigating the impacts of the accelerated development of the interim
phase would be to shorten the implementation time for off-site infrastructure construction at the
GIE. This can be accomplished through the mechanisms of sole-source contracting and turnkey
construction of key infrastructure items (water supply, wastewater treatment, solid waste
handling). These activities could be accomplished in tandem with the interim phase development
so that the interval between the interim phase development of site utilities and the Phase I
infrastructure components is shortened.
0
-~ ~ ~~~~~-
Hx~~~



APPENDIX I
PLANT SPECIES IDENTIFIED ON AND
INIMIEDIATELY ADJACENT TO THE GIE SITE
$4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



*                                     Plant Species Identified On and Immediately Adjacent
To the GIE Site
Trees:
Acacia dealbata (common name is Tamor)
Cupressus sempervirens
Pinus halepensis (cornmon name is Kaphore)
Ficus carica
Vebascum undulatum
Herbs:
Nabk (common narne is Christ's thorn)
Pokeberry or Pokeweed (cornmon name)
Fogonia mollis
Centaura Compositae
Species identified by Nadia El-Khodarv with the Environmental Plannina Division of Lhe
Ministry of Planning.
1-1
0



0                                                                 APPENDIX J
CONSIDERATION OF USE OF THE GAZA MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER
TREATMENT PLANT TO TREAT WASTEWATER FROM THE GIE
0
0



Consideration of Use of the Gaza Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant
to Treat Wastewater from the GIE
An option that was not considered in the EA under the wastewater treatment off-site
infrastructure element of the GIE is to convey the GIE pretreated industrial wastewaters to the
Gaza municipal wastewater treatment facility for final treatment and disposal. This option
assumes that the Gaza City WWTP would be upgraded to meet quality standards typical of most
well performing sewage treatment plants. The option would require the installation of a pipeline
(i.e., force main) that would have caoacity for conveyance of 2,000 cubic meters per day of
pretreated industrial wastewaters from the GIE.
The wastewaters would be pumped to the MIansoura Street main where they would proceed by
gravity to Lift Station No 7A for pumping to the Gaza City WWTP. Alternatively, the pretreated
wastewaters may be purnped from a surge tank at the GIE to purnp station No. 6 for conveyance
to the Gaza City WWTP. This wastewater treatment option assunes that the Gaza City W-WTP
would undergo extensive renovation and upgrading so that it meets the standards necessary to
treat industrial wastewaters.
The potential advantages of this option are as follows:
* The pretreated industrial wastzwaters from the GIE would account for only about 12% of the
total hydraulic load on the Gaza City W-WTP. Therefore, extensive dilution of these
wastewaters would be achieved with a subsequent reduction in environmental impact.
m  The apparent operational and maintenance cost of wastewater treatment to the GIE should be
lower than the costs associated with the operation of a dedicated industrial WWTP at the
industrial estate.
* The industrial wastewater pretreatment requirements could probably be reduced because of
the dilution associated with the Gaza City sewage flow.
Some concerns and potential problems associated with this option are as follows:
* There is considerable uncertainty in the effectiveness of an upgrade/renovation of the Gaza
City WWTP for industrial wastewater applications, particularly if the pretreatment
requirements for each industrial tenant are lowered under this option. The industrial
wastewaters would contain dissolved organic compounds which are not typically treated in
municipal wastewater treatment facilities. Although the hydraulic loads will be low, the
organic loadings from the industries (depending on industry type) could be quite high. This
could impact the performance of the biological treatment system if the bacteria are not
acclimated to these pollutants. There are also shock load impacts which could deteriorate the
-            performance of the treatment plant and cause numerous process upsets or failures.
J- 1



N The failure of a 15,000 cubic meter per day wastewater treatment system because of toxic
loads from the industrial sources would have a greater environmental consequence than the
failure of a 2,000 cubic meter per day industrial facility which can be contained and managed
to control discharges to the environment.
* The uncertainty associated with the Gaza City sewerage system, which is subject to
overflows and infiltration losses of wastewater to the environment, could cause major long-
term problems with the discharge of untreated industrial wastes to the freshwater shallow
aquifer.
Given the uncertaintv in the consequences of implementing this option, additional engineering-
studies should be conducted to assess the needs related to Gaza City sewerage improvements and
renovation/upgrade of the municipal WWTP.
0
J-2



