Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 26, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1999, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) dated July 3, 
1996 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
Project); 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of Part A of the Project by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 11,200,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read: “Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the “and” at the end of Subsection (f), substituting “; and” for “.” at the 
end of Subsection (g) and adding a new Subsection (h) and a new Subsection (i) as 
follows:
“(h)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the agreement amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) 
between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated July 3, 1996.”
“(i)
‘Amending Project Agreement’ means the agreement amending the 
Project 
Agreement (Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) 
between the Association and 
KNEHC, dated July 3, 1996.”
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 24,800,000) in two tranches, the 
first tranche being an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,600,000) (the First 
Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to 
eleven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,200,000) 
(the 
Second Tranche).”
Section 1.04. In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the following 
new paragraph (c) is added:
“(c)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
initially be charged against the First Tranche 
until that tranche has been 
exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the Second 
Tranche.” 
Section 1.05. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Date is amended to read December 31, 2002.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of Subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue  from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.”
Section 1.07. In Section 4.08 of the Development Credit Agreement, the 
expression “Starting from 1997” is amended to read as follows: “Starting from 1999”. 
Section 1.08. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.09. In the last paragraph of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the expected Project completion date is amended to read June 30, 2002. 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
Page  3
(a)
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, 
and the Amending Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms; 
(b)
the execution and delivery of the Amending Project Agreement on behalf of 
KNEHC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action, and the Amending 
Project Agreement is legally binding upon KNEHC in accordance with its terms; 
(c)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been amended in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association, and such amendment has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and KNEHC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and KNEHC in accordance 
with its terms; 
(d)
the heat tariffs have been adjusted in such a way that the average 
revenue from the sale of heat energy in 1998 is at least 15% above the average revenue 
from the sale of heat energy in 1997; and 
(e)
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been appointed to assist KNEHC in carrying 
out Part D(2)(ii) of the Project.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing: (a) on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms, and that the 
amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (b) on 
behalf of KNEHC, that the Amending Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, KNEHC and is legally binding 
upon KNEHC in accordance with its terms, and that the amended Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by KNEHC and is legally binding upon 
KNEHC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower and KNEHC notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nancy J. Cooke
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
Page  4
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
      Credit
    % of
   Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
    to be
Category
           SDR Equivalent) 
  Financed
(1)
Goods under Part A
     20,600,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants’ Services
100%
and Training
(i)
under Part D of    2,370,000
the Project
(ii)
under Part E of
270,000
the Project
(3)
Unallocated
     1,560,000
   ___________
TOTAL
    24,800,000
