Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG
 
Agreement Providing for 
Amendment and Restatement of 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 10, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 2003, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) 
(Amending Agreement). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project), 
dated July 3, 1996, as amended on May 26, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), 
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
(B)  
pursuant  to 
the Decree of the Borrower’s Government No. 333, dated 
June 
5, 
1998, the Kyrgyz National Energy Holding Company (KNEHC) has been 
reorganized and seven new companies have been established to be KNEHC’s legal 
successors (KNEHC’s successors); 
(C) 
 
five of KNEHC’s successors, namely, Power Plants, Severelectro, 
Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and Jalal-Abadelectro (each of whom individually is hereby 
referred to as an Implementing Company and all of whom are collectively referred to as 
Implementing Companies), have been designated to continue to carry out respective Parts of 
the Project
;
and
 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement 
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and 
restated in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto (
Restated 
Development Credit Agreement)
.
Page  3
3
-
-
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
(a) the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; (b) the 
execution and delivery of the Project Agreements on behalf of each of the Implementing 
Companies have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action; and (c) the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Sections 3.01 (b) through 3.01 (f) of the 
Restated Development Credit Agreement and satisfactory to the Association have been 
concluded between the Borrower and each of the Implementing Companies, and such 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
each of the Implementing Companies.  
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing: (a) on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms, and that Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms; and (b) on behalf of 
Implementing Companies, that Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the respective Implementing Company and 
are legally binding upon that Implementing Company in accordance with their terms, and 
that Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the respective 
Implementing Company and are legally binding upon that Implementing Company in 
accordance with their terms. 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower and Implementing 
Companies notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
4
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the city of Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ Bolot Abildaev 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Dennis de Tray 
Authorized Representative
Page  5
ANNEX 
To Agreement Providing for 
Amendment and Restatement of 
Development Credit Agreement 
Dated July 10, 2003 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
 
Amended and Restated  
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 3, 1996 
As amended and restated on July 10, 2003
Page  6
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1996, as amended and restated on July 10, 2003, 
between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;   
 
(B) 
the Borrower has contracted from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) a 
loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000) to 
assist in financing Parts B(i),  C(i),  C(ii), C(iv) and C(vi) of the Project, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Agreement) entered into between the 
Borrower and ADB; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has contracted from the Danish International Development 
Agency (Danida) a credit (the Danida Credit) in an amount equivalent to eight million six 
hundred thousand Dollars ($8,600,000) to assist in financing Part B(iii) of the Project, on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Danida Agreement) entered into between 
the Borrower and Danida; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has contracted from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) a 
credit (the NDF Credit) in an amount equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand 
Dollars ($6,800,000) to assist in financing Parts B (ii) and C (iii) of the Project, on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF Agreement) entered into between the 
Borrower and NDF;  
 
(E) 
the Borrower has received from the Swiss Government a grant (the Swiss 
Grant) in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($4,500,000) 
to assist in financing Part C (v) of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and the Swiss 
Government; and  
 
(F) 
Parts A(i), A(iii), A(iv) and A(v) of the Project will be carried out by Power 
Plants with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Power Plants part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  7
2
-
-
(G) 
Part C(vi) of the Project will be carried out by Severelectro, Vostokelectro, 
Oshelectro and Jalal-Abadelectro with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Severelectro, Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and 
Jalal-Abadelectro part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in Sections 3.01 (c) through 
3.01 (f) of this Agreement;  
 
(H) 
Part D of the Project will be carried out by Power Plants, Severelectro, 
Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and Jalal-Abadelectro, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Power Plants, Severelectro, 
Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and Jalal-Abadelectro part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in Sections 3.01 (b) through 3.01 (f)  of this Agreement;  and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements between the Association and each of the 
Implementing Companies; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to the Amending Agreement and in the Preamble 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Amending Agreement” means the Agreement Providing for 
Amendment and Restatement of Development Credit Agreement (Power and District 
Heating Rehabilitation Project) between the Borrower and the Association; 
(b) 
“Jalal-Abadelectro Project Agreement” means the agreement between 
the Association and Jalal-Abadelectro, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Jalal-
Abadelectro Project Agreement; 
Page  8
3
-
-
(c) 
“Jalal-Abadelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and Jalal-Abadelectro pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Jalal-Abadelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(d) 
“Jalal-Abadelectro” means Kyrgyz joint stock company Jalal-
Abadelectro established pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Borrower No. 
333, dated June 5, 1998, or any successor thereto;  
(e) 
“KNEHC” means the Kyrgyz National Energy Holding Company, a 
company whose Articles of Association were adopted by Governmental Decree No. 21, 
dated January 20, 1994, or any successor thereto; 
(f) 
“Oshelectro Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Oshelectro, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Oshelectro Project 
Agreement; 
(g) 
“Oshelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and Oshelectro pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Oshelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(h) 
“Oshelectro” means Kyrgyz joint stock company Oshelectro established 
pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Borrower No. 333, dated June 5, 1998, 
or any successor thereto;  
(i) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within 
Severelectro under an agreement entered into between Severelectro, Vostokelectro, 
Oselectro and Jalaj-Abadelectro to assist the above mentioned Implementing Companies 
to carry out Parts C and D of the Project, and referred to in Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and Section 2.06 of their respective Project Agreements; 
(j) 
“Power Plants Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Power Plants, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Power Plants Project 
Agreement;  
(k) 
“Power Plants Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and Power Plants pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Power Plants Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
Page  9
4
-
-
(l) 
“Power Plants” means Kyrgyz joint stock company Power Plants 
established pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Borrower No. 333, dated 
June 5, 1998, or any successor thereto;  
(m) 
“Project Agreements” means collectively Power Plants Project 
Agreement, Jalal-Abadelectro Project Agreement, Oshelectro Project Agreement, 
Severelectro Project Agreement and Vostokelectro Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“Restated Development Credit Agreement” means the Development 
Credit Agreement (Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association dated July 3, 1996, as amended and restated by the 
Amending Agreement; 
(o) 
“Severelectro Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Severelectro, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Severelectro Project 
Agreement; 
(p) 
“Severelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and Severelectro pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Severelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(q) 
“Severelectro” means Kyrgyz joint stock company Severelectro 
established pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Borrower No. 333, dated 
June 5, 1998, or any successor thereto;  
(r) 
“Social Safety Net Action Plan” means the program referred to in 
Section 4.05 of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“SOM” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(t) 
“Vostokelectro Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Vostokelectro, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Vostokelectro Project 
Agreement; 
(u) 
“Vostokelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and Vostokelectro pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Vostokelectro Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
Page  10
5
-
-
(v) 
“Vostokelectro” means Kyrgyz joint stock company Vostokelectro 
established pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Borrower No. 333, dated 
June 5, 1998, or any successor thereto;  
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to each of the Implementing 
Companies. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 Section 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 24,800,000) in two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,600,000) (the First Tranche), and the second tranche being an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 11,200,000) (the Second Tranche).
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 (b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, all 
amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be charged against the 
First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged 
against the Second Tranche.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  11
6
-
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled, 
provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche shall accrue from 
July 25, 1999; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2006 and ending April 15, 2031. 
 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2016 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five 
consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to 
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount 
Page  12
7
-
-
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
 
(c) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause the Implementing Companies to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Project Agreements all the obligations 
of the Implementing Companies therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Implementing Companies to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to categories (2)(ii) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement available to Power Plants under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Power Plants.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to categories (2)(iii) and (4)(i) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement available to Severelectro under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Severelectro.  
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to categories (2)(iv) and (4)(ii) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement available to Vostokelectro under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Vostokelectro. 
Page  13
8
-
-
(e) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to categories (2)(v) and (4)(iii) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement available to Oshelectro under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Oshelectro.  
 
(f) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to categories (2)(vi) and (4)(iv) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement available to Jalal-Abadelectro under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Jalal-Abadelectro. 
 
(g) 
All subsidiary loan agreements to be concluded pursuant Sections 
3.01(b) through 3.01(f) above shall have been concluded on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association and shall include, but not limited to, the following 
principal terms: (i) the principal amount shall be repaid in equivalent amounts in SOM 
determined as of the respective dates of repayment; (ii) interest on the principal amount shall 
be paid at a rate of six percent (6%) per annum; and (iii) the principal amount to be repaid 
over a period of  twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5) years. 
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the respective Parts of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
Implementing Companies’ compliance with the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) of their 
respective Project Agreement.  
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each of 
the Implementing Companies pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of their respective Project 
Agreement. 
Page  14
9
-
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Companies to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible in carrying out the Project. 
 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that tariffs for electricity sales from 
Power Plants to direct consumers and distribution companies, for electricity transmission 
by National Electrical Grid of Kyrgyzstan, and for electricity sales by distribution 
companies to final consumers are all set at an equitable and appropriate level and are 
periodically adjusted to ensure the financial viability of the Implementing Companies and 
National Electrical Grid of Kyrgyzstan. 
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) fund and implement the Social Safety Net 
Action Plan agreed with the Association; and (ii) by October 31 of each year, review with 
the Association the implementation of such Plan.  
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part for the 
Implementing Companies to comply with their obligations under their respective Project 
Agreements. 
 
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that power bills owed to the Implementing 
Companies by the public sector be settled within 45 days, as an average among all bills from 
each Implementing Company, and within 90 days, for each individual bill. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any of the Implementing Companies shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the respective Project Agreement or the respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
Page  15
10
-
-
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the Implementing Companies will be able to perform its obligations under the 
respective Project Agreement. 
 
(c) (i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing thereof; or (B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement;  and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;  and 
 
(b) 
 the events specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
Page  16
11
-
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01 The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Erkindik Boulevard, 58 
 
Bishkek 720874 
 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex: 
 
245169 ASKAR KH 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI)   
 
Page  17
12
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods for KNEHC  
10,800,000 
100% of foreign  
 
under Part A 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of the Project 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80%
of local expend- 
 
itures for other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services, 
 
100% 
 
including training, under 
 
Part D of  the Project 
 
 
 
(i)  KNEHC 
2,320,000 
 
 
(ii) Power Plants 
165,000 
 
 
(iii) Severelectro 
220,000 
 
 
(iv) Vostokelectro 
142,000 
 
 
(v) Oshelectro 
142,000 
 
 
(vi) Jalal-Abadelectro 
142,000 
 
 
(3) 
Goods for Power Plants 
6,700,000 
100% of foreign 
 
under Part A of the Project 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures for  
 
other items 
 
procured locally 
Page  18
13
-
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(4) 
Goods under Part C (vi) 
 
100% of foreign 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(i) Severelctro 
1,500,000 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80%
of local  
 
expenditures for 
 
(ii) Vostokelectro 
635,000 
for other items 
 
procured locally 
 (iii) 
Oshelectro 
635,000 
 
 
(iv) Jalal-Abadelectro 
635,000 
 
 
(5) Unallocated 
764,000
TOTAL 24,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
Page  19
14
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the power and district heating 
system efficiency and reliability; (ii) reduce power and heat losses; (iii) reduce the 
environmental impact of the power and heat facilities; (iv) rehabilitate the existing assets in 
the power and district heating system; (v) introduce appropriate financial management at 
KNEHC and Implementing Companies; and (vi) restructure KNEHC along commercial 
lines. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Power Plant Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of the Bishkek combined heat-and-power plant (TES-1), by way of: 
(i) refurbishment of the seven most recent boilers; (ii) installation of turbogenerator-11; (iii) 
upgrading of the plant instrumentation and control systems and retrofitting of the essential 
auxiliary systems (coal supply, water make up, compressed air, electrostatic precipitators); 
(iv) installation of monitoring devices for emissions; and (v) provision for a metal testing 
laboratory and vibration monitoring equipment. 
Part B
:
District Heating System Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of the district heating system in Bishkek, by way of: (i) replacement 
of the most corroded sections of the system (about 12.5 km.), and of the damaged and poor 
insulation of the aerial sections of the system (about 7 km.); (ii) installation of frequency 
converters on selected pumps and retrofitting of the automatic control system; and (iii) 
adaptation of the substations to variable flow operations and installation of  heat meters. 
Part C
:
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Transmission and Distribution Facilities
Rehabilitation and upgrading of transmission and distribution facilities by way of: 
(i) construction of a new 220/110 kV Ala Archa substation; (ii) extension and connection of 
the Chui substation at 220 kV; (iii) replacement of the 110-kV ground circuit breakers for 
twelve substations in Bishkek; (iv) upgrading and extension of the substations of Novo-
Troitskaia, Orto-
Alysh, Selektsionnaia and Sel’elektro; (v) construction of a new 220/110 
kV Naryn substation; and (vi) provision of power metering equipment and tools. 
Page  20
15
-
-
Part D
:
Technical Assistance and Training
1. 
Provision of consultants' services and training to assist KNEHC and Implementing 
Companies in engineering, design, procurement and construction supervision, and the 
staffing and functioning of the PIU. 
2. 
Provision of consultants' services and training to assist KNEHC and Implementing 
Companies in: (i) reforming the power sector for future private sector involvement; and (ii) 
developing appropriate organizational structures, and adopting commercial management 
practices, budget and control systems, reporting procedures and a management information 
system. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.   
Page  21
16
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement
 
Section I
:
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
Page  22
17
-
-
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to all contracts awarded under Parts B and C of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued 
by the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,00 equivalent each; or  (b) contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, 
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference 
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignment of 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consults 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
 
