Report No. PID6761
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Power & District (+)
Heating Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe & Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       KGPA5573
Borrower                         Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Kyrgyzenergo
326, Jibek Jolu, 720070, Bishkek
Kyrgyz Republic
Tel:    996 3312 272967
Fax:    996 3312 670319
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           August 14, 1998
Appraisal Date                   March 30, 1998
Planned Effectiveness Date       October 1, 1998
A. Country and Sector Background
B. 9.   The Kyrgyz Republic (KR) is a small, land-locked country with a
population of 4.5 million and an estimated per capita income of US$570 million
(1996). The energy sector is relatively large and has an important role in
the economy. The country has abundant low-cost hydropower resources which
have been partially developed, small oil and gas production, and a collapsing
coal industry. The country imports coal, petroleum products and natural gas,
and exports electricity to neighboring republics (mainly Kazakhstan).
C. Project Description
D. 10. A credit for the Project, of SDR13.6 million was approved by IDA
on May 23, 1996, and became effective on March 18, 1997 (Credit 2868-KG). The
objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the power and district heating
system efficiency and reliability; (b) reduce power and heat losses; (c)
reduce the environmental impact of the power and heat facilities; (d)
rehabilitate the existing assets in the power and district heating system; (e)
introduce appropriate financial management at Kyrgyzenergo JSC (formerly
Kyrgyz National Energy Holding Company, KNEHC); (f) restructure KNEHC along
commercial lines; and (g) attract private sector interest in petroleum
exploration and production. The Project has five components: (a)
rehabilitation of the Bishkek combined heat-and-power plant; (b)
rehabilitation of the district heating system in Bishkek; (c) rehabilitation
and upgrading of transmission and distribution facilities; (d) technical
assistance and training for project implementation, corporate development and
restructuring of KNEHC; and (e) consultants' services and training to assist
the Government in carrying out a promotional program for petroleum exploration
and production. IDA is financing components (a), (d) and (e).
Objectives



E. 11. The supplemental credit would provide urgently needed additional
financial assistance that is required to complete the power plant
rehabilitation component of the Project, i.e. the rehabilitation of the
Bishkek combined heat-and-power plant
F. 12. The bidding for the rehabilitation works for the Bishkek
combined heat-and-power plant was carried out by KNEHC in 1997 under a turnkey
type of contract, including the installation and commissioning of a 90 MW
turbine already procured from EMZ, a Russian manufacturer. The bid prices
turned out to be substantially higher than the estimates, on which the
financing allocated under the original IDA credit had been calculated, due
mainly to: (a) the generally conservative approach to cost estimates of the
rehabilitation works; and (b) the bidders' perception of risks and
uncertainties associated with the commissioning of the turbine and the bid
requirement that the bidders provide operational guarantees on this major
piece of equipment. The scope of the rehabilitation works has also been
reviewed and adjusted, and the costs have been revised accordingly.
G. Financing
13.     The revised financing plan for the Project is as follows:
US$ million
IDA                                              42.0
Asian Development Bank                            30.0
Danish International Development Agency           8.6
Nordic Development fund                           6.8
Swiss Government                                 4.5
KNEHC                                             17.9
Kyrgyz Republic                                   15.3
Total                                             125.1
H.
I. Implementation
14.     KNEHC is responsible for implementing the investment components and the
corporate development aspects of the technical assistance component of the
Project through the already set up Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
J. Environmental Aspects
15.     The Project does not have detrimental effects on the environment and
presents no unusual physical risks since it involves rehabilitation of
standard parts of the network. The Project has an environmental category B
rating which continues to be valid under the supplemental financing, as the
project components remain unchanged. Rehabilitation of the coal-fired Bishkek
thermal power plant would lead to environmental benefits through improved
efficiency, reduction of emissions and better control of operation. The
rehabilitation of the district heating system would provide environmental
benefits through improved efficiency in the use of fuels and reduction of
water losses in the system.
K. 16. Contact Point:
Varadarajan Atur, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
- 2-



Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2305
Fax No.:        (202) 477 7977
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



