Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
JOINT STOCK COMPANY JALAL-ABADELECTRO  
 
Dated August 14, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-0 KG 
CREDIT NUMBER 2868-1 KG 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and JOINT STOCK COMPANY 
JALAL-ABADELECTRO (Jalal-Abadelectro). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) by the Restated Development Credit Agreement dated 
July 3, 1996, as amended and restated on even date herewith between Kyrgyz Republic 
(the Borrower) and the Association (the Restated Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 24,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Restated 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Jalal-Abadelectro agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Jalal-Abadelectro pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of the Restated Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the credit will be made available to Jalal-Abadelectro on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
WHEREAS, Jalal-Abadelectro in consideration 
of the Association’s entering into 
the Restated Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Restated Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. Jalal-Abadelectro declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts C and D of the 
Project. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Parts C and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Restated Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Jalal-Abadelectro shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and 
Parts C and D of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Jalal-Abadelectro shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Jalal-Abadelectro, a plan 
for the future operation of Parts C and D of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Jalal-Abadelectro on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. Jalal-Abadelectro shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Jalal-
Abadelectro shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) Jalal-Abadelectro shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts C and D of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
Jalal-Abadelectro shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Jalal-Abadelectro of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
 
Section 2.06. Until the completion of the Project, Jalal-Abadelectro  jointly with 
Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and Severelectro shall maintain the PIU and shall ensure that it 
is staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference, and functions at 
all times necessary and adequate to assist Severelectro, Vostokelectro, Oshelectro and 
Jalal-Abadelectro to carry out Parts C and D of the Project, and satisfactory to the 
Association. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of Jalal-Abadelectro 
 
Section 3.01. Jalal-Abadelectro shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted 
by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. Jalal-Abadelectro shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public utility practices. 
 
Section 3.03. Jalal-Abadelectro shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) Jalal-Abadelectro shall maintain records and account adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
Page  5
-
4
-
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) Jalal-Abadelectro 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the records 
and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably requested. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Jalal-Abadelectro shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 6 
months after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such 6 months period; thereafter, each 
FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
Section 4.03. Jalal-Abadelectro  shall: 
(a)   
prepare annually and review with the Association not later than by 
October 31 of each calendar year its investment program for the following five years; and  
(b)   consider and take into account the Association's views in finalizing said 
program. 
Section 4.04. Jalal-Abadelectro shall ensure that starting from January 1, 2005, 
the consumption of power by all its consumers is being properly metered in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.  
 
Section 4.05. Jalal-Abadelectro shall maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
Section 4.06. Jalal-Abadelectro shall observe international standards regarding 
environmental protection and safety in the operations, maintenance and capital 
expenditure activities related to its electricity distribution business, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.  
Section 4.07. Jalal-Abadelectro shall take all action required on its part to ensure 
that its accounts receivable for power do not exceed the equivalent of 60 days of its 
average annual billing.  
Section 4.08. By October 31 of each year, Jalal-Abadelectro shall submit to the 
Association, for its review, an operating and capital budget for the following year, with 
the indication of its financing sources. 
Section 4.09. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Jalal-
Abadelectro shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and 
expenditures of Jalal-Abadelectro shows that the estimated net revenues of Jalal-
Abadelectro for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 
Page  7
-
6
-
1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of Jalal-Abadelectro in such year on all 
debt of Jalal-Abadelectro including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b)    
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)   
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of Jalal-Abadelectro 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the  date on which 
it is originally incurred. 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii)      the term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the 
sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt. 
 (iv)    the term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues from all sources other than those related 
to operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 (v)     
the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
Jalal-Abadelectro not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incidence of the debt in question, which both the Association and 
Jalal-Abadelectro accept as reasonable and as to which the 
Association has notified Jalal-Abadelectro of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of Jalal-Abadelectro. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.  
 
Section 4.10. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, and subject to 
paragraph (c) of this Section, for each fiscal year, starting with the year of 2003, Jalal-
Abadelectro shall finance not less than thirty percent (30%) of its annual capital 
expenditures incurred for that year from its internal sources. 
(b) 
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:  
 
(i)     
the term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between: (x) the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and (y) the sum of all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), 
debt-service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other than 
cash, and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures; 
(ii) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operation, and expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues; 
(iii) 
the term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year; 
 
(iv) 
the term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the 
next fiscal year; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(v) 
the term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt-service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes and dividends; 
 
(vi) 
the term "debt-service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking-fund payments, if any), 
interest and other charges on debt; and 
 
(vii) 
the term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations. 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of monitoring compliance with the provisions of Section 
4.10 (a), the requirement to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to not less 
than thirty percent (30%) of annual capital expenditures will be deemed to be satisfied in 
respect of a particular fiscal year if the average ratio of funds from internal sources to 
annual capital expenditures for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year and the next fiscal 
year equals or exceeds thirty percent (30%). 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amending Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of Jalal-
Abadelectro thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Restated Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Restated Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Jalal-Abadelectro of this event. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at su
ch party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For Jalal-Abadelectro: 
 
Joint Stock Company Jalal-Abadelectro 
 
159-a Lenina St. 
 
Jalal-Abad City 
 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(996-372) 25-42-06 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Jalal-
Abadelectro may be taken or executed by the General Director of Jalal-Abadelectro or 
such other person or persons as the General Director of Jalal-Abadelectro shall designate 
in writing, and Jalal-Abadelectro shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Dennis de Tray 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
JALAL-ABADELECTRO 
 
By: /s/ Salaidin Avazov  
Authorized Representative 
 
