                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000770




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (DANI-33731 IDA-28680 IDA-28681 SWTZ-33276)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR24.9 MILLION
                         (US$ 35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                     FOR A

        POWER AND DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                  June 30, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2007)

                                Currency Unit = SOM
                                  1.00 = US$ 0.0285
                              US$ 1.00 = SOM 35.09      1



                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 to December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

         ADB          Asian Development Bank
         CHP          Combined Heat and Power Plant
         CIS          Commonwealth of Independent States
         CSAC         Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit
         EU TACIS European Union Technical Assistance for CIS
         KNEHC        Kyrgyz National Energy Holding Company
         KR           Kyrgyz Republic
         USAID        United States Agency for International Development




                             Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director: Annette Dixon
                           Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
                      Project Team Leader: Raghuveer Sharma
                         ICR Team Leader: Raghuveer Sharma




1Changes in exchange rate to one US$: SOM 11 (April 1996); SOM 17.95 (May 1998);
SOM 50 (April 2003)

                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                   Power and District Heat Rehabilitation Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Power & District
Country:              Kyrgyz Republic         Project Name:          Heating Rehabilitation
                                                                     Project
                                                                     IDA-28680,IDA-
Project ID:           P008519                 L/C/TF Number(s):      28681,TF-33276,TF-
                                                                     33731
ICR Date:             06/30/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVT. OF KYRGYZ
Lending Instrument:   SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                     REPUBLIC
Original Total
                      XDR 13.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 24.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
JSC Power Plants
JSC Severelectro
JSC Vostokelectro
JSC Oshelectro
Jalal-Abadelectro
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process            Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:      09/10/1993    Effectiveness:         03/18/1997         03/18/1997
                                                                             04/14/2003
Appraisal:           09/04/1995    Restructuring(s):
                                                                             12/01/2005
Approval:            05/23/1996    Mid-term Review:
                                   Closing:               12/31/2000         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately



                                             i

                                                                        Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory             Implementing           Moderately
                                                 Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory  Performance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  2
District heating and energy efficiency services                   98                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                             Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                   Secondary        Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Roger J. Robinson                  Yuhong Huang
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein               Jonathan C. Brown
Project Team Leader:       Raghuveer Y. Sharma                Salem Ouahes
ICR Team Leader:           Raghuveer Y. Sharma
ICR Primary Author:        Venkataraman Krishnaswamy




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objectives of the Project were to support economic growth through
rehabilitation and upgrading of electricity and heat infrastructure and to assist the
Government in restructuring the power and heat sector. Specific objectives were:
  (i) improve the power and district heating system efficiency and reliability; (ii) reduce
power and heat losses; (iii) reduce the environmental impact of the power and heat
facilities; (iv) rehabilitate th eexisting assets in the power and district heating system; (v)
introduce appropriate financial management at KNEHC; (vi) restructure KNEHC along
commercial lines; and (vii) attract private sector interest in petroleum exploration and
production.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Development Objectives were not changed at the time of restructuring. However, the
last objective was dropped, as the petroleum component was cancelled at that time.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Restructuring of KNEHC
                                            Options for
                                            restructuring to be               KNEHC was

                                            studied and                       unbundled into 7

                 KNEHC was a vertically choices to be                         separate companies;

Value            integrated utility for     agreed with IDA                   1 for district

quantitative or electricity and district    and                               heating, 1 for

Qualitative)     heating at the time of     implementation to                 power generation, 1

                 appraisal.                 be started                        for transmission

                                            immediately                       and 4 for

                                            thereafter with                   distribution

                                            consultant help.                  companies

Date achieved 09/04/1995                    09/30/1996                        12/31/2001
Comments         Power and district heating functions were separated and power was unbundled
(incl. %         into generation, transmission and distribution functions. Achievement is 100%
achievement)     and went beyond what was anticipated under the Credit.
Indicator 2 :    Adoption of modern electricity and energy laws.
                 New laws were deemed
Value            necessary to enable        Enactment of new                  The two laws were
quantitative or private investments in the Electricity Law                    enacted as
Qualitative)     sector and for             and Energy Law.                   envisaged.
                 independent regulation.
Date achieved 09/04/1995                    01/23/1997                        01/23/1997
Comments         These laws paved the way for the envisaged sector reform. The achievement is
(incl. %         considered 100%.



                                                 iii

achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Improved power system efficiency by way of reduced system losses.

Value           At appraisal, the                                               System losses in the
quantitative or unbundled KNEHC was Losses to be                                sector were 40-
Qualitative)    believed to have 20%       reduced to 10%.
                system losses.                                                  41%.

Date achieved 09/04/1995                   12/29/2000                           12/31/2007

Comments        Compared to 1994-95 achievements appear negative. However, unbundling in

(incl. %        2001 revealed the real amount of losses (which were estimated at higher than

achievement)    50% in 2002 by SEA). After funds were reallocated to loss reductions, some
                improvements are noticeable.

Indicator 4 :   Incremental electricity and heat generated in Bishkeke CHP enterprise (as a
                whole) as a result of rehabilitation.

                The output of power and     90 MW of
Value                                      capacity (No                         Incremental heat

quantitative or heat from the very old     quantity of                          and electricity

Qualitative)    Bishkek CHP units was                                           amounted to 9.7
                declining fast.            electricity or heat
                                           specified)                           GWh in 2000.

Date achieved 09/04/1995                   06/30/1997                           09/30/2000
Comments        The rehabilitation slowed down the rate of deterioration in the power and heat
(incl. %        output. Incremental output attributable to rehabilitation amounted to 231.6 GWh
achievement)    in 2007 (see Annex 3). Capacity support was 90 MW as planned.
Indicator 5 :   Tariff increases adequate to ensure financial viability of the power entities.
                                            Tariff adequate to                  Tariffs are so low
Value           Power and heat tariffs     enable entities to                   that the entities are
quantitative or were well below cost of    achieve an SFR of                    either insolvent or
Qualitative)    supply.                    30% and a DSR of                     approaching
                                           1.5 times                            bankruptcy.
Date achieved 09/04/1995                   12/31/1997                           12/31/2007
Comments        KNEHC compliant until 2000. However, all 5 unbundled entities have been
(incl. %        facing major liquidity problems on account of inadequate tariffs. Achievement
achievement)    is nil.
Indicator 6 :   Improvements in collections
                                                                                Cash collections are
                                                                                estimated at 79% of
                Collections less than 50%                      Accounts         billing. Levels of
Value           of billing and accounts     Accounts           receivable       accounts receivable
quantitative or receivable of KNEHC        receivable level to level to be      in months were:
Qualitative)    were in excess of 6        be reduced to 60    reduced to 60 JSC PP: 5.34;
                months sales equivalent.   days.               days.            Severelectro:5.27;
                                                                                J'abadelectro: 3.4;
                                                                                Oshelectro: 14.7
Date achieved 09/04/1995                   12/31/1997          12/31/2000       12/31/2007
Comments        By 2002 although total collections were 83% of billing, cash collections were
(incl. %        only 32.2%. Since then cash collections have improved to 79%. Much higher
achievement)    rates of collections are needed to reach the accounts receivable target.




                                                 iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Commissionning Turbo-generator Unit 11 (90 MW) at Bishkek CHP

Value          Unit 11 not installed for

(quantitative  want of associated         90 MW Unit                         90 MW Unit in

or Qualitative)equipment and not          commissionned.                     operation.
               operating.
Date achieved 09/04/1995                  09/30/1999                         12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %       100% achieved, although somewhat delayed. The unit has been functioning well

achievement)   and supoprting the power and heat supply systems since December 2000.

Indicator 2 :  Reduction of commercial losses of electricity as a result of meter installation and
               metering improvements in the pilot project areas.
                                                                             86,691 meters were

Value          High levels of system      Reduction of                       installed in piilot

(quantitative  losses, half of which were commercial losses                  areas leading to

or Qualitative)commercial, in the 4       in the pilot areas                 reduction of
               distribution companies     selected.                          commercial losses
                                                                             by 85.2 GWh/year.
Date achieved 04/14/2003                  12/30/2005                         12/31/2007
Comments       100% achieved. The pilot project demonstrated the potential for reduction of
(incl. %       commercial losses through metering improvements and proved highly cost
achievement)   effective.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/07/1996           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     01/06/1997           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     06/05/1997           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     07/01/1998                                       Satisfactory                       0.25
  5     02/04/1999          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                       1.88
  6     06/30/1999           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                       2.57
  7     11/16/1999           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                       6.61
  8     04/27/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     12.32
  9     11/27/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     15.15
  10    06/28/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     17.44
  11    12/21/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     17.79
  12    06/25/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     17.97
  13    06/28/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     17.99
  14    12/19/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     17.99



                                               v

  15  06/25/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 17.99
  16  12/24/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 17.99
  17  06/28/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 18.53
  18  12/08/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 22.62
  19  06/24/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                 23.55
  20  12/05/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 25.86

  21  03/12/2007         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                33.30



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
  04/14/2003                 MS       S        17.99
  12/01/2005                MU      MU         25.86




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the
GDP of Kyrgyz Republic (KR) had contracted by 50 percent during 1991-1994, but there
were signs of resumption of growth by the end of 1995 as a result of a program of
stabilization, assisted by IMF supported standby credit operation and IDA supported
structural adjustment operations. By March 1996 the annual inflation rate had come down
to 26 percent.

The situation in the energy sector, however, continued to be a cause for concern. Under
the former Soviet Union the hydropower-rich KR was able to export its surplus
hydropower to, and import fossil fuels (oil, gas and coal) from, other Soviet Republics.
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the prices of imported energy commodities
quickly rose to international levels while the electricity prices were kept low. This
situation led to deterioration in terms of trade for KR, with net energy imports
contributing about US$ 170 million to the annual trade imbalance, estimated at US$ 227
million in 1995. It also resulted in a dramatic increase in the share of households in the
total consumption of electricity, overloading the distribution systems, increasing system
losses and reducing reliability of supply even though the total consumption of electricity
in the country was declining during 1991-1995. In the district heating sector the overall
concerns related to sizeable heat and water losses, poor quality of heat supply and
reduced life of assets caused by corrosion and leaks.

The Energy Sector Review carried out by the Bank in May 1995 brought out the urgent
need for commercializing the sector and adjusting tariffs for the network-supplied forms
of energy -- electricity, heat and gas--initially to cover the cash operating costs and
correct the structural bias in favor of households and later to earn a reasonable rate of
return to the supply entities. It also highlighted the need: (i) to consider structural changes
in the vertically integrated utility for power and heat within the framework of the
privatization program of the government, (ii) to have independent regulatory
arrangements, and (iii) to have a modern legal framework which will enable such sector
reforms. EU-TACIS and USAID had provided assistance to draft such a law, which had
been pending before the Parliament in February 1996. A regulatory agency had actually
been established under a government decree ahead of the enactment of the energy law.

The context of declining demand for electricity and underutilization of existing capacities
was considered an opportunity for the government to restructure and rehabilitate the
sector without being under intense pressure to add new capacity.

KR's production of oil had been declining from a peak of 500,000 tons in 1979 to less
than 100,000 tons in 1994, which was less than 15 percent of the country's demand. The
Bank had mobilized grant financing from Norway and Japan to undertake a fresh



                                               1

assessment of the petroleum resources with a view to promote exploration of prospective
acreages by the international oil industry.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: In the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the
Board in June 1995, energy had been identified as one of the four priority areas for IDA
financial and technical assistance. The Bank's Energy Sector Review had identified
electricity and heat as the key areas for assistance by IDA and other donors. IDA had
cooperated with the government in ensuring that power sector investments were limited
to what was consistent with immediate priorities and had played a major role in securing
sizeable co-financing and grant assistance for the sector. IDA had played a key lead role
with the government on the adoption of the basic energy and electricity laws and the
regulatory framework prepared with assistance from USAID and EU-TACIS. The
selected project was believed to be a good vehicle to address the four high level
objectives of the CAS, namely, (i) to facilitate restoration of growth, (ii) to support
consolidation of structural reform effort, (iii) to protect the vulnerable sections of the
population during transition, and (iv) to strengthen institutional capacity.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objectives of the Project were to support economic growth through
rehabilitation and upgrading of electricity and heat supply infrastructure and to assist the
Government in restructuring the power and heat sector.

Specific objectives were: (i) improve the power and district heating system efficiency and
reliability; (ii) reduce power and heat losses, (iii) reduce the environmental impact of the
power and heat facilities; (iv) rehabilitate the existing assets in the power and district
heating system, (v) introduce appropriate financial management at KNEHC, (vi)
restructure KNEHC along commercial lines, and (vii) attract private sector interest in
petroleum exploration and production.

SAR prepared in 1996 does not include an explicit results framework. It mentions that the
following indicators would be used to measure the effectiveness of implementation in the
annual, medium term and implementation completion reports:

(i) For Bishkek TES-1: Installed and derated capacity, energy capability, energy
produced, fuel consumption per kWh and Gcal. Station use, planned and forced outages,
plant availability, emission of fly-ash, SOx, NOx and solid ash, O&M costs, and total
manpower (no baseline or target levels were specified);
(ii) For KNEHC: Current ratio, operating ratio, accounts receivable (60 days), self
financing ratio (30 percent), debt service ratio (> 1.5 times), and net income before tax
(targets for some were specified in the covenants in the credit and project agreements).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Development Objectives were not changed explicitly at the time of restructuring the
credit in April 2003. However, the petroleum exploration related objective is deemed as



                                               2

dropped since the related component with a small allocation ($ 300,000) was deleted
from the project at that time.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
Consumers of district heat, steam and hot water in Bishkek area were the target
beneficiaries of rehabilitation of TES-1, as the supply of heat, steam and hot water for
them was expected to become more reliable. Consumers of electricity all over KR were
the target beneficiaries of the rehabilitation of TES-1, as the quantum of incremental
thermal power available in especially in winter would relieve, to some extent, winter
power shortages for them.

Institutionally KNEHC was the main beneficiary, as under the project it was expected to
be commercialized, restructured and made into a more efficient vehicle of delivery of
electricity and heat services for the people of KR.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

(i) Part A: Rehabilitation of Bishkek Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant (TES-1):
Installation of a 90 MW turbo-generator (already procured), refurbishment of seven
boilers (No 14 to 20), upgrading of instrumentation and control equipment, retrofitting of
the coal supply, water make-up, compressed air and electrostatic precipitation systems,
installation of emission monitoring devices, provision for a metals testing laboratory, and
vibration monitoring equipment. This component was to increase heat and power output
of TES-1, make it more efficient, and reduce pollution.

(ii) Part B: District Heating System Rehabilitation in Bishkek area: Replacement of
corroded or damaged pipes, installation of frequency converters on select pumps, retrofits
to automatic control system, adaptation of substations to variable flow operation, and
installation of heat meters. This component, to be financed by Asian Development Bank
(ADB), was to make heat supply to Bishkek area more reliable.

(iii) Part C: Rehabilitation and upgrading of transmission and distribution facilities: New
220/110 kV substations at Ala Archa and Naryn, extension and connection of Chui
substation to 220 kV, replacement of 110 kV ground circuit breakers for 12 substations in
Bishkek area, extension of the substations at Novo Troitskaia, Orto Alysh, Selektsionnaia
and Sel elektro; and power metering equipment and tools. This component, to be
financed by ADB, was to improve the reliability of power supply and reduce losses.

(iv) Part D (a): Consulting services and training for engineering, design, procurement and
construction supervision of the project and provision for the staffing and functioning of
the Project Implementation Unit in KNEHC.

(v) Part D (b): Consulting services and training to assist the government and KNEHC for:
sector reform for private sector involvement, organization structures, commercial
management practices, budget and control systems, reporting procedures and



                                               3

management information system. This component was to assist in sector reform,
commercialization, efficiency improvement and in attracting private sector investments.

(vi) Part E: Consulting services and training to assist the government in preparing petroleum data
packages and executing a promotional program of petroleum exploration in the most promising
KR basins. This component was to attract private sector for this activity in KR.

This ICR deals only with components financed by IDA and not with components (ii) and (iii)
above covered by parallel financing by ADB, which has prepared its own ICR for them (PCR:
KGZ 29024 of August 2004). Nor does it deal with Part E, which had been dropped since 2003.



1.6 Revised Components

There were no new components when a supplementary credit of $15 million was given
for the project in June 1998 to cope with the cost overrun situation. The scope of
component (i) was adjusted to additional available funding through prioritization of items
to be taken up for rehabilitation. Further prioritization and adjustments to quantities was
done during 2000-2002 when constraints to Public Investment Program (PIP) emerged in
the context of IMF program. At the time of restructuring of the project in April 2003,
when cost saving situation emerged, additional power metering equipment and tools were
allowed to be financed using the surplus under the credit as a part of the distribution loss
reduction program.

At the time of restructuring, the petroleum exploration component with a small original
allocation of $ 300,000 was dropped as the government decided to meet the cost
themselves and wanted the amount to be reallocated for other categories of the credit.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
There were no changes in project design. However there were changes in financing,
procurement arrangements and implementation arrangements, and project schedules.

Procurement arrangements for the rehabilitation of Bishkek CHP (TES-1) were initially
based on a turnkey approach (under which one contractor was responsible for the supply
of all the relevant packages of equipment, coordination among them, installation and
commissioning of the plant or the unit) which resulted in bids substantially higher than
originally estimated, making it necessary for the Bank to provide a supplementary credit
of $15 million. Thus the Bank's Board of Directors approved a supplementary credit of
$15 million in June 1998

Subsequently biddings were carried out on the basis of procuring individual packages
from various suppliers and coordinating, installing and commissioning of the unit by
other contractors and consultants, in order to enhance competition. This resulted in lower
prices for such segments of the project.




                                                  4

During the approval of the restructuring in April 2003, these savings of $5 million were
allocated for the distribution loss reduction component to finance additional metering
equipment and tools for the power distribution networks and associated distribution loss
reduction efforts.

The restructuring also became necessary since the executing agency KNEHC had been
unbundled by function (as a part of the Bank supported sector reform) into seven
independent legal entities, five of which had to be designated as the executing agencies
for the project. Thus the JSC Power Plants was designated as the executing agency for the
rehabilitation of Bishkek CHP TES-1 plant, while the four new distribution companies,
Severelectro, Vostockelectro, Oshelectro,and Jalalabadelectro were designated as the
executing agencies for the distribution component.

At the time of restructuring the Credit, the original PIU was retained with JSC Power
Plant implementing the generation rehabilitation component and an additional Common
project implementation unit (CPIU) was established in Severelectro to handle the
implementation of the loss reduction program for all four distribution companies. This
proved to be a cost effective arrangement.

In December 2005 Schedule 1 to the restated Credit Agreement was amended (with the
approval of the regional Vice President) to include a new category "Works" and an
amount of SDR 955,436.13 was reallocated to this category enabling the financing of the
installation works under the Credit. This helped to overcome the inability of the
government and the five entities to finance these works from their own resources.

Under the restructured credit there was a component for supply of billing and collection
systems and another for project implementation consulting services support. These were
later included under a new Swiss government funding of Swiss Francs 3.2 million
arranged with Bank assistance and the relevant amounts were reallocated for the supply
of meters. Subsequently arranged funding from KfW of Euro 5.0 million increased the
volume supply of meters further.

The closing dates of the credit were changed from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2002
and then to June 30, 2005 at the time of approving supplementary credit and restructuring.
A further extension was granted till December 31, 2007. Thus the project completion was
delayed by 78 months and the delay was attributable to (i) cost overrun relating to part of
the Bishkek CHP Rehabilitation component; (ii) need to change over to a better
procurement arrangement; (iii) SDR contraction in value in the earlier years; (iv)
constraints to the government's PIP arising from IMF conditionalities during 2000-2002
leading to a prohibition by Ministry of Finance of further procurement and contract
awards; (v) the hiatus of nearly two years (2002 and 2003) in disbursement caused by the
sector restructuring and the need to restructure the credit; (vi) procurement delays in
respect of certain packages; and (vi) introduction of the new distribution loss reduction
component in mid 2003.




                                              5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The project was prepared on the basis of concerns identified in a comprehensive Energy
Sector Review carried out by the Bank in May 1995 and in line with the priorities
outlined in the CAS and incorporated appropriately sector rehabilitation and sector
reform objectives, paving the way for possible private sector entry into the sector.

Since this was the first investment lending project for the Bank in KR energy sector, there
was relatively little previous country specific sector experience to incorporate. World-
wide experience of the Bank was used, but the method of procurement chosen for certain
components turned out to be expensive. Also fiscal space problems (investment
constraints under the IMF program) which delayed implementation in the late 1990s and
early 2000s could not be fully anticipated and taken into account.

Cost estimates for rehabilitation of certain components at the appraisal stage turned out to
be unrealistic. Improved procedures could have been adopted (see section 6).

Further, the project had far too many development objectives which were somewhat over
ambitious and its design proved to be complex, even though the proposed investments
were modest and nature of interventions were too small to make a major impact on many
of the problems.

The commercialization of the power and heat sectors was expected to result in substantial
increases in tariffs. A social impact assessment of the projected tariff increases was
carried out through structured interviews and focus group discussions with concerned
consumer groups and through the analysis of data gathered in a national Household
Energy Survey in October 1994 (assisted by EU-TACIS). These participatory processes
led to the adoption of lifeline electricity tariffs, subsidization of certain sections of the
populations from the state budget and an agreement with government for the
implementation of a social safety net program.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
The physical part of the project was implemented largely as originally envisaged, making
adjustments in quantities and prioritization in the context of cost overrun, and
incorporating a distribution loss reduction program in the context of availability of
surplus credit amount. A Switzerland Government grant of $500,000 under TF 033731
provided support for the preparation of detailed designs, bidding documents, bid
evaluations, contract negotiations, as well as for setting up the Project Implementation




                                                6

Unit and its systems and procedures.2 Restructuring of the credit was largely necessitated
by the sector restructuring and the emergence of five new executing agencies in the place
of the parent organization KNEHC.

Substantial delays in implementation experienced after 2000 (especially during 2002 -
2004, when there was practically no disbursement) were attributable largely to: (a) the
sector restructuring and the need to restructure the credit in terms of the five new
executing agencies in the place of KNEHC; and (b) constraints on the Public Investment
Program arising from IMF conditions, whereby no contracts could be awarded or signed
for over two years.

Though the reform agenda under the project was limited in scope to corporatizing and
commercializing the operations of KNEHC, making it a financially sustainable entity and
carrying out a study of the organization of the power and heat sectors, it was later
expanded considerably, under the subsequent Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit
(CSAC) operation, to sector restructuring and unbundling of KNEHC into functional
entities to enable private sector entry and competition.

In retrospect, such reform steps proved somewhat premature in the context of extensive
non-payment, widespread power losses attributable to theft and corruption, and a
significant lack (in the country) of managers trained to handle commercial problems.3
The flow of funds to the upstream generation and transmission companies dried up and
mechanisms had to be devised under which consumer revenues went into an escrowed
bank account from which amounts were disbursed to generation, transmission and
distribution companies according to the percentages set by the regulatory body. All the
companies were starved for funds because of the low levels of tariff and poor collections
and high losses and their commitment for the project and reform diminished.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring of physical progress and financial performance was through quarterly
progress reports and through audited financial statements of entities. Results-based
monitoring framework was not in use at the appraisal stage. Though a series of technical,
financial and institutional indicators were listed in an appendix for use during annual, mid
term and implementation completion reporting, no base line and target values were given.

However the technical performance of the power generation segment in general
(including Bishkek CHP-1 plant) was monitored through a monthly statement covering a
wide range of parameters including most of the relevant indicators indicated in the SAR
appendix. Similarly the power distribution segment performance was also monitored



2Similar support for the ADB financed Part B (District Heating Rehabilitation) was provided by a Danish
Government grant of $ 280,000 under TF 033276

3For a more detailed discussion of this aspect reference may be made to the ICR of the CSAC program
(Report No.32639 of June 17, 2005).




                                                     7

through monthly statements covering purchases from the generating units, sales to
various categories of consumers, system losses, metering, tariffs, billing, collection,
management of receivables and payables and all cost elements. Collection of information
set up in the context of the project and the subsequent CSAC operation to calculate every
quarter the quasi-fiscal deficit (QFD)4 in the power sector proved effective in monitoring
sector progress and was widely used by the government, the Bank, IMF and other donors.

Such monitoring proved invaluable not only for supervision of the project, but also for
carrying out policy and strategy dialogues with the government on issues such as tariffs,
sector efficiency and sector financial viability and sustainability.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard Issues: The project has an environment category B rating. The environmental
impact of the project components was assessed during project preparation and an
Environmental Management Plan was agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
This plan appears to have been followed generally to the extent permitted by the financial
situation of the CHP plant, and the implementation of the project components helped JSC
Power Plants track and manage the environmental conditions better than before. The
environmental condition still needs a great deal of improvement, especially in terms of
particulates and ash disposal, but a severe lack of funds is a major constraint to proper
O&M of the electrostatic precipitators and other related facilities.

Fiduciary issues: The project entities were not in compliance with many financial
covenants for several years. All five entities are insolvent and are approaching
bankruptcy. This is largely attributable to the inability of the government to agree to any
meaningful revision of tariffs since 2002. Securing compliance with audit covenants
proved time-consuming and difficult. The entities needed financial assistance to engage
international audit firms as external auditors. Most audit reports were seriously delayed
and almost all of them were highly qualified. The common thread of the key audit finding
was the difficulty of considering the companies as going concern in the context of (a)
current liabilities substantially exceeding current assets; (b) substantial accumulated
losses seriously eroding the equity base; and (c) non-compliance of covenants with
external lenders, thus exposing the entities to the contingency of the loans being recalled.
Key audit qualifications include inadequate accounting records for fixed assets and
inventories, liabilities, sales, and accounts receivables and payables. For the year 2006
the entities engaged local audit firms and among the resulting audit reports the one
relating to the JSC Power Plant has been accepted by the Bank, while those relating to the




4 QFD is calculated as a sum of: (a) the difference between actual and normative tariff (pricing
inefficiency); (b) difference between actual level of system losses and normative level of system losses
(technical efficiency); and (c) the difference between actual and normative levels of bill collection
(commercial efficiency).




                                                       8

distribution companies do not appear to be acceptable. Audit of the accounts for 2007 is
also being carried out by local audit firms.

The Bank's approach in coordination with other donors was to help the entities access
additional grant resources need to engage external auditors and pursue with the
government the policy dialogue on the need to raise tariffs to cost recovery levels. To
safeguard the integrity of Bank disbursements, direct payment method was adopted.

While there had been several cases of rebidding and delays in procurement decision
making, no deviation from the Bank Guidelines were noted in an Independent
Procurement Review undertaken in February 2003 covering 3 contracts for goods ($ 15
million) and 6 contracts for services ($ 2.4 million) including the major contract for
Turbo generator installation. Most of the contracts under the credits were subject to prior
review by the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
The rehabilitated Bishkek CHP plant continues to remain as an operating asset of JSC
Power Plant and is being operated with competence and efficiency by its personnel.
However power tariffs have remained substantially lower than the cost of generation
especially in the context of steeply rising fuel prices. Therefore, JSC Power Plant is
financially insolvent and has to depend on government support for its fuel supply--a
situation which can not be regarded as sustainable. The government was planning to
adopt a medium term tariff policy of raising the average tariff from the present level of
less than 2 US cents/kWh to about 4 US cents by 2012 and the first increase was
expected o be effective from July 2008. In view of the past experience, it is not clear
whether the tariff increase will actually take place. The government is also considering
the possible privatization of the Bishkek CHP plant. In either case, adoption of tariffs
based on full cost recovery is essential for ensuring the sustainability of the operation of
the project facilities.

Available thermal power generating capacity in the country has steadily decreased over
the years owing to the age of the installed units and poor maintenance caused by lack of
resources. Addition of thermal generation capacity to meet the winter shortages of
electricity is of the highest priority in the sector. Thus the logical follow on project would
be to rehabilitate some of the presently unavailable turbines and boilers or to install new
boilers and turbines to provide about 200 MW to 250 MW of power in the Bishkek CHP
plant site. Such a project will, however, make sense only in the context of adoption of
cost recovery tariffs, reduction in the very high levels of power losses, elimination of
nonpayment, and smooth flow of funds from the end-consumer to generating companies
in an environment of enhanced financial and commercial discipline.

In respect of the distribution component, procured bulk meters and consumer meters have
been mostly installed and are operational as a part of the distribution systems of the four
distribution companies. These companies are facing a financial situation similar to JSC


                                                9

Power Plant. Based on the results of the pilot re-metering program carried out under the
project, extensive re-metering of all consumers needs to be undertaken as a follow on
project to reduce commercial losses in the system to moderate the cost of supply and the
tariff increases needed. Adoption of cost recovery tariffs is essential for the sustainability
of the operations of the distribution companies. Privatization of at least one of them (in
some form or other) in the near future is being considered by the government.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The original objectives and design of the project continue to remain highly relevant.
Implementation arrangements have been adjusted to match the institutional changes, as
discussed elsewhere in this report at the time of restructuring the project. If the generation
component had not been carried out, the country would be facing even more severe
winter energy shortages than it actually does now. The loss reduction component had
clearly proved that it needs to be replicated extensively to make the sector healthy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
The extent of achievement in respect of each objective is discussed below:
(i) to restructure Kyrgyz National Energy Holding Company (KNEHC) along
commercial lines and introduce appropriate financial management
KNEHC did improve its financial performance during 1996-2000 ending the year 2000
with an operating ratio of 73%, debt-service ratio of 2.4 times, a self financing ratio well
in excess of the covenanted 25%, a level of account receivables equivalent to 4 months
sales, a modest post tax profit, and a rate of return of 8.7% on average net fixed revalued
assets in use. A modern electricity law was enacted as agreed under the project. A
regulatory body had been established even earlier through a Presidential Decree. KNEHC
was corporatized in 2001. In September 2001, it was unbundled into seven separate legal
entities one each for generation, power transmission and heat distribution, and four power
distribution companies (well beyond the expectations under the project and more in line
with the framework of the subsequent CSAC operation). This brought in a greater level
of transparency and positioned the distribution companies for possible private sector
entry.

However it was not an unmixed blessing. Restructuring may have been premature and
may have actually delayed project implementation, reduced the commitment of
unbundled entities for reform and made the task of efficiency improvements more
difficult (as discussed elsewhere in this report). The financial condition of all six entities
in the power sector has steadily deteriorated since 2001. All of the six entities are
insolvent and fast approaching bankruptcy in the context of tariffs which do not cover
costs and continuing high levels of losses and poor collections. Even by the year 2007,
for example, only 47% of the electricity delivered to the market was converted into cash
compared to an industry norm of about 90%.



                                                10

(ii) to rehabilitate the existing assets in the power and district heat system, reduce power
and heat losses and improve the power and district heating system efficiency and
reliability
Rehabilitation of the selected assets of the power and district heat systems was carried out
largely as envisaged. Had the project not been undertaken the efficiency and reliability of
supply would be notably worse than they are now. However in terms of reduction of
system losses and operational efficiency, the situation still remains far below industry
standards. The total power system losses remained in the range of 40% to 41% compared
to an industry norm of about 10% and cash collections to billing ratio has improved from
31% in 2003 to 79% in 2007 compared to an industry norm of about 95% to 98%. The
project scope was too small to achieve these objectives by itself. Extensive replication of
the loss reduction component would be needed to make a dent into the metering, billing
and collection efficiencies. Governance improvements by way of management contract,
concession, lease or privatization through asset sales may be an important element to
achieve commercial efficiency and financial discipline. Adoption of cost recovery tariffs
would be essential for any progress in this direction. In the absence of these the
achievement of this objective will remain partial and somewhat insignificant.

(iii) to reduce the adverse environmental impact of the power and heat facilities
Only very modest provisions were made for this purpose under the project and they
accomplished what they were aimed at. However a lot more of investments would be
needed to achieve this objective sector wide. Further the related entities need to be
financially solvent with resources needed to operate and maintain environment related
facilities optimally. The absence of this has proven a handicap for a meaningful
achievement of this objective.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The EIRR for the Rehabilitation of Bishkek CHP component was estimated in the SAR at
29% valuing electricity output at 4.7 US cents /kWh and heat output at $15.7/GCal on the
basis of the "willingness to pay" concept (WTP). In the ICR incremental electricity
attributable to the rehabilitation has been valued at 3.5 US cents/kWh as this is the price
for the latest contract concluded between Kyrgyz and Kazakh officials for export of
power from Kyrgyz republic in summer 2008. The Kyrgyz system is interconnected fully
with the Central Asian Power System and it exports during summer and imports during
winter significant volumes of power. Thus traded border price represents the true
economic value of power. Incremental heat generation is valued at equivalent electricity,
since in the absence of heat generation more electricity would be imported. The EIRR
thus calculated is 16.3 %. It falls to 6.8% when the electricity value is reduced to 1.8
cents/kWh (a price close to the current average billed tariff) highlighting the inadequacy
of the current tariff levels.

Replacement of the old inductive type meters of consumers with modern digital meters
with remote reading capability and installation of feeder meters, clearly helped to fully
account for the electricity flows, reduced meter tampering, meter reading and billing
abuses, bill consumers efficiently and improve collections. Analysis carried out for


                                                11

specific select feeders has shown that the project resulted in (a) a substantial increase in
billed sales in relation to the power input into the feeders; and (b) a reduction in demand
induced by the more efficient billing of consumption. The volume of additional billed
sales generated for each meter was calculated as an average of the results of all studied
feeders and the results extrapolated to the total of about 87,000 meters installed under the
project. Valuing the incremental sales at the current average billed price of 1.83
cents/kWh the IRR is 21.5%. When the incremental sales are valued at the traded price of
electricity at 3.5 cents/kWh, the EIRR is at 42.8% demonstrating the economic soundness
and efficiency of the project activity.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
In terms of relevance and efficiency the project clearly deserves a satisfactory rating as
discussed above. However in terms of achieving the development objectives, the results
can only be regarded as moderately unsatisfactory. The overall rating for the outcome of
the operation would thus be moderately unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As in most former Soviet Union countries, Kyrgyz Republic had the system of tariff
discounts (ranging from 25% to 100%) enjoyed by a wide range of "privileged" persons
(such as pensioners, war veterans, active military and police personnel, Chernobyl
victims, etc) who were not necessarily poor. The objective was to move away from this
system of rewards to one of providing subsidy from the state budget to the targeted poor
who could not afford the price increases.

Under the credit, the government covenanted to evolve and implement a social safety net
program to protect the poorer sections of the population from the consequences of rapid
price increases, which sector commercialization would inevitably entail. KNEHC also
covenanted to abolish all price discounts to a wide range of consumers.

A lifeline rate tariff was introduced and the government adopted the policy of bearing the
cost of tariff discounts/subsidies since 1998. The government also issued a series of
decrees in March 1998 aimed at notably reducing the number of consumers eligible for
tariff discounts. Energy coupons were printed and issued to those entitled to receive
subsidies and provisions were made in the budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection to meet the cost of redemption of coupons.

The theme of social protection was pursued again under the CSAC operation (2000) and
the conditionalities were reinforced. The steps taken by the government such as
categorical assistance to Unified Monthly Benefit recipients, Socially Protected Prices
and its attempts to monetize privileges have been analyzed in detail in the ICR of CSAC
operation (Report No. 32639 of June 17, 2005).




                                               12

As of April 2007 some 30% of the total consumers in the country (or 289,100 families)
received power related social protection benefits from the central government budget
(94%) or from the local government budget (6%). The central budget expenditure in 2006
amounted to 230.12 million Som for social protection payments relating to power, gas,
heat, coal and transfers to energy companies. In 2007 the budget provision was higher at
293.37 million Som.

Several amendments to the law submitted to the parliament by the government over the
decade to abolish the system of privileges and to monetize the privileges had to be
withdrawn on account of protests by privileged persons. The government has not so far
succeeded in evolving systems and procedures to ensure that subsidies funded under the
state budget do reach the targeted poor and not leak indiscriminately to those who should
not get it. The lifeline rate tariff lent itself to extensive billing abuses and was recently
given up, partly on the recommendations of the Bank and other donors.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Major institutional changes in the sector took place during the long period of
implementation of the project. The vertically integrated utility KNEHC was unbundled
by function and legally separate entities were created for generation, transmission and
distribution. Modern energy law and electricity law was enacted. In the very early years
State Energy Authority (SEA) was established as a regulatory body. More recently a
Ministry of Energy was established and a regulatory department had been established
under its control to handle the work after the abolition of SEA. Improving the capacity of
these institutions is a continuing challenge. Many of these institutional changes were not
fully envisioned at the time formulating the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
        None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
        Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
The extent of achievement of the development objectives and their sustainability has been
discussed under section 3.3.The ability of the government to initiate and maintain an
electricity tariff regime based on cost recovery and to ensure good corporate governance
and financial discipline in the energy entities through appropriate means (such as
performance contracts, management contracts, concessions, leases, or privatization) is
essential for the sustainability of the gains. Based on the experience during the last 11
years, and the country's political processes, the risk of the government not being able to
do these is substantial. Though the government indicated to the ICR mission that it had
formulated a medium term tariff policy in terms of which tariff increases would
commence in May 2008 (later changed to July 2008) and reach the level of 4 cents/kWh


                                                  13

by 2012, it is not clear when the planned first increase would take place. The government
also claimed progress in their planning to privatize three energy entities (Bishkek CHP,
Severelectro, Bishkek district heating company). However, in the context of the
government's approach to tariffs, private sector interest is not expected to be high. In the
light of these developments the risk is rated substantial.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank formulated the project after a comprehensive sector study, mobilized
significant cofinancing, and conformed to the priorities of the CAS. In terms of
institutional changes and improvements its aims were immediately relevant, practical and
modest. However, given the nature of the project and the country circumstances, cost
estimating of the CHP rehabilitation component turned out to be unrealistic. The project
design was complex and the development objectives were far too many and somewhat
broad and unqualified and could not have been fully achieved by the modest sized
investments and project components (for example environmental improvements).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision missions were alert to the developments in the sector and were
proactive in arranging for supplementary credit when a cost overrun situation arose in
1998. They successfully changed the approach to procurement leading to greater
economies and possible savings from the IDA credit. They took the initiative for
restructuring the credit in 2003 to adjust to the changed sector structure and to introduce
the high priority metering and loss reduction component to make use of the savings from
the IDA credit. They also mobilized additional funds for the Kyrgyz Republic from Swiss
government and KfW for further support to the above program.

In conjunction with the supervision of the CSAC program the Bank supervision team
focused on all key sectoral issues such as tariffs, metering, billing, collections, system
losses, quasi-fiscal deficits, amendments to laws to enable the grant of concession to
distribution companies and the formulation of sector strategies from time to time. The
data bases constructed and maintained by it were extensively used by donors as well as
sector agencies.

The government and the executing agencies looked upon the Bank missions as a source
of sound advice and discussions with them were regarded as problem solving and highly
beneficial.




                                                14

Reactions to unsatisfactory and delayed audit reports and reactions to non-compliance of
most major financial covenants could have been more explicit. Either sanctions could
have been initiated or explicit waivers for the relevant year could have been issued.
However the project implementation proceeded in a decade of major political changes
during which the country's President was changed by a peaceful revolution (March 2005)
and Prime Ministers were changed six times. Till very recently there was no Ministry for
Energy to handle energy policy responsibilities. In its absence these responsibilities were
shared on an ad hoc basis between the offices of the Prime Minister, the regulatory body
and others, making policy dialogue difficult, discontinuous and somewhat unproductive.
Also following the Andijan civil disturbances in Uzbekistan, Kyrgyz Republic gave
refuge to the affected people fleeing from Uzbekistan. In retaliation Uzbekistan cut off
gas supplies to Kyrgyz Republic--a circumstance hardly conducive to sanctions affecting
the completion of the rehabilitation of the CHP project intended to increase winter energy
supply. Formal application of sanctions in this context would only have hurt the suppliers
to the project for whom commitment letters had been issued, without necessarily eliciting
any more favorable policy response.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In the light of the ratings given for quality at entry and during supervision, the Bank's
performance is rated moderately satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: moderately unsatisfactory
Government commitment and ownership for the execution of the physical part of the
project as well for the sector and institutional reforms turned out to be somewhat uneven
and intermittent especially after 2001. In the context of the constraints on the Public
Investment Program (PIP) imposed by IMF, the Ministry of Finance froze the project and
did not allow contracts to be awarded for nearly two years (2001-2002). It took
considerable effort on the part of the Bank to prioritize and prune the contents of the
remaining contracts and persuade the government to allow procurement to proceed. On
the key issue of tariffs, government could not agree to adjust tariffs upwards to approach
the cost of service level especially after May 2002, when the last tariff increase took
place.5 This led to all the energy entities becoming insolvent and fast approaching
bankruptcy. Even though sector unbundling was carried out in early 2001 to enable
possible entry of private sector in the distribution sector, no progress has been achieved
in this direction largely on account of lack of unanimity of views within the government,



5 There were civil unrest and agitations in the southern parts of the country (Aksu region) in May 2002, as
a result of which the present President who was the then Prime Minister was obliged to lay down his office.
One of the three man reasons for the unrest and agitations was believed to be energy tariff increases
ordered then. This is believed to have resulted in a psychological block against all further tariff increases on
the part of key political officials.




                                                      15

differences with parliament, and a general lack of political consensus. The government
has also chosen to gradually erode even the appearance of autonomy of the regulatory
body SEA and transferred its functions initially to the antimonopoly committee and later
to a department (named department for the regulation of fuel and energy resources) under
the administrative control of the Ministry of Energy. Nor has it been successful so far to
have the civil code amended to declare electricity a commodity--an amendment
considered necessary to prosecute effectively those who steal electricity. Eleven years
after covenanting with the Bank to evolve satisfactory social safety net, still the energy
tariff discounts to privileged consumers continue and no effective system targeted to
protect the poor among the energy consumers has emerged. However the government
seems to be making some progress presently in relation to the tariff increases, civil code
amendment and possible private sector involvement. Government performance is thus
rated moderately unsatisfactory.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
KNEHC the original project beneficiary showed commitment and ownership to the
implementation of the project and the associated institutional improvement efforts. It
successfully completed and commissioned the Turbine 11 in the Bishkek CHP-1 plant by
December 2000. Its financial condition improved during 1996-2000 and it remained a
solvent entity complying with most financial covenants. Its commitment to carrying out
the remaining works under the generation component started wavering when it was faced
with the decision to unbundle it into seven entities, and when it was faced with relending
terms of the supplemental credit which it considered harsh. Thus it made a formal request
not to proceed with the rest of the project. This request combined with IMF restrictions
on PIP and the hiatus caused by unbundling delayed the implementation of the project by
about three years. Thus there were little or no disbursements during 2001-2004.

The successor agency JSC PP showed great commitment and completed the rest of the
project as well as it could despite its serious financial liquidity problems.

The four distribution companies showed reasonable interest and enthusiasm in the
implementation of the loss reduction component. However they were continuously
insolvent, could not produce audited accounts without serious qualifications or on time,
experienced sustained high levels of technical and commercial losses far in excess of
industry norms. Aided by the loss reduction project, they appear to be somewhat
confident of gaining control over metering and billing problems and are actually
achieving better collection rates than before, though they still have a long way to go.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Based on the ratings given for the government and the implementing agencies, the rating
for overall performance of the government is moderately unsatisfactory.




                                              16

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
The first lesson relates to the importance of the timing and the right sequence in sector
reform efforts. Though the project operation by itself focused originally (and correctly)
on public enterprise reform of the vertically integrated utility of a modest sized power
system and its commercialization, the reform agenda changed later, under the CSAC
operation, to one focusing on sector unbundling, possible privatization of distribution
entities, and introduction of possible competitive trading mechanisms. Such reforms
proved somewhat premature, in the context of extensive payment indiscipline and
continuing unfavorable macroeconomic conditions. Commercialization and public
enterprise reform should have been continued, till a measure of payment discipline in the
economy had been achieved, and reforms involving sector unbundling should have
awaited more favorable macroeconomic and payment conditions to enable free flow of
cash from the end-user to the upstream energy producer. Such reform efforts should have
awaited also the government's willingness and ability to facilitate the adoption of cost-
recovery tariffs in the sector. These aspects have been more fully discussed in the ICR of
the CSAC operation.

The second lesson relates to the need for better coordination between the World Bank
operations and those of IMF to avoid the Bank financed projects being stalled as a result
of IMF conditionalities relating to public investment programs. Such coordination,
however, appears to have improved a great deal in the recent years.

The third lesson relates to the process of improving the cost estimate methodology in
respect of rehabilitation projects involving complicated machinery. In respect of such
complicated rehabilitation components, it would be more practical to dismantle the
machinery, identify the actual optimal volume of replacement, repair and reinforcements
to be carried out (to restore capacity or to extend life) and prepare the cost estimate on the
basis of such investigations and analysis. These activities could be funded under a project
preparatory facility. Project funding could be on the basis of actual bids received under
advance procurement facility. The timing of the dismantling of the machine has to be
carefully determined to produce minimum loss of generation and to avoid periods of
maximum demand. For example summer, rather than winter, would be preferred to
examine thermal plants in KR.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
        None
(b) Cofinanciers
        None
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
        Not applicable




                                              17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Component                                      At the time       At the time      At the time    As completed
                                               of the            of Supple-       of Restruc-    December
                                               Original          mentary          turing         2007
                                               credit May        Credit June      April 2003
                                               1996              1998
Turbine 11 installation and                                 8.5           17.7           17.7           14.14
commissioning
Rehabilitation of coal dumpers                              1.8            4.0             4.3           4.50
Rehabilitation of Boilers                                   3.8            5.5             4.9           4.83
Instrumentation and control                                 2.2            2.3             0.8           0.89
Equipment for Environment upgrade                           0.9            1.0             0.1           0.01
Metallurgical Laboratory equipment                          0.5            0.5             0.3           0.28
Furnace, welding equipment, etc                             0.2            0.2        Included in Boilers
Other miscellaneous items (1)                                                                            0.31
                 Sub Total                               17.9             31.2           28.1           24.96
Support for PIU                                             1.4            1.4             0.1           0.07
Financial consulting services                               2.4            2.4             0.2           1.53
Petroleum exploration                                       0.3            0.3             0.0           0.00
Distribution component (loss reduction                      0.0            0.0             5.6           6.29
program)
Other miscellaneous items (2)                                                                            1.19
              Total base cost                            22.0             35.3           34.0           34.04
Physical contingency                                        2.1            3.3             1.4           0.00
Price contingency                                           2.1            3.4             0.0           0.00
             Total Project Cost                          26.2             42.0           35.4           34.04
Interest during Construction                                2.8            4.8     Not shown             0.42
Total Financing required                                 29.0             46.8     Not shown            34.46

(b) Financing
IDA Credit (s)                                           20.0             33.2           33.2           34.64
KNEHCs own funds6                                           3.9            6.5             2.6              0
Government loans to KNEHC                                   5.1            7.1               0              0
Note: 1.The Project was completed at a total cost of SDR 24.704 million compared to the total IDA credit
amount of SDR 24.8 million. The government and the implementing agencies did not contribute their own
funds. The slight difference between the total project cost and total IDA credit expressed in US dollars
above is due the slightly different exchange rates used by the Bank and the implementing agencies.
2. The first "Other miscellaneous items" ($ 0.31m) are items purchased by KNEHC and transferred to
National Grid Company and District Heating Company at the time of sector restructuring. The second such
item ($1.19m) relates to items purchased by KNEHC and transferred to the four distribution companies at
the time of restructuring. (Source: Data from implementing agencies)




6 KNEHC in this table includes its successor implementing agencies




                                                     18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Bishkek CHP-1 Rehabilitation component: All needed additional equipment and
materials were procured and the installation and commissioning of Turbine 11 was
completed by December 2000 and has since then been operating satisfactorily at the rated
capacity of 90 MW. In addition it had enabled increased generation of heat from boilers
No.16 to 24, which are capable of using domestic coal.

Supply of materials for rehabilitation of boilers, upgrades of instrumentation, monitoring
and control systems, and rehabilitation of coal dumpers enabled the rehabilitation of
boilers No.16 to 24 and their improved operation. The instrumentation and monitoring
systems enabled improved operation of boilers and turbines, their optimal operating
modes and a reduction in harmful emissions. Upgrades to the metallurgical laboratory
enabled non-destructive testing and acquisition of portable combustion testers enabled
control of the composition of the combustion gas leading better environment
management of emission. Installation of modern efficient coal dumpers and coal crushing
equipment enabled continuous and effective unloading of coal, reduced down time of
wagons and more efficient preparation of the fuel for feeding the boilers.

Cumulatively these investments reduced the rate of fuel consumption and the O and M
expenses per unit output of electricity and heat. The available capacity in Bishkek CHP
has been rapidly declining on account of the old age of the boilers and turbines. The
project had the effect of reducing the rate of decline in available capacity, by adding a
new 90 MW turbine, by rehabilitating certain boilers, and by improving the efficiency of
operations. The diagram below indicates the incremental energy attributable to the project
investments during 2000-2007.

                     1600

                     1400
                                                                        Actual Incremental
                     1200                                                 generation with
                                                                               Project
                     1000

                  h
                      800
                   GW
                      600


                      400

                      200

                       0
                        1997 1998 1999    2000     2001   2002 2003 2004     2005    2006 2007


                                Power Output with Project       Power Output w/o Project

Without this project the country would have had to import more electricity to meet the
same level of demand. Quantification and valuation of these benefits have been done in
the context of efficiency evaluation (see annex 3). The output from this component
clearly served the objective of rehabilitating a part of the power sector assets and
improving efficiency.




                                                        19

Metering and loss reduction component: Kyrgyz power system has a customer base
slightly less than one million customers of which about 910,000 are residential
consumers. Under the project 86,691 retail and bulk meters (or slightly less than 10% of
the total number of consumers) were installed. To the extent possible the allocated meters
for each of the four distribution companies were installed in compact select areas with all
consumers, connected to feeders or transformers with newly installed bulk meters, being
provided with new retail meters. This enabled a meaningful accounting of the total
energy entering the feeders. In respect of such feeders total losses (the difference between
energy input and energy billed) reduced dramatically. On an average each meter resulted
in incremental sales of 1,463 kWh in 2006 and 983 kWh in 2007. Annual incremental
sale from all the meters installed under the project is estimated at 85.2 GWh. Over a two
year period the losses in the selected feeders had come down by 13% to 17%. Also
because of such improved and billing practice the demand in those feeders declined by
about 13% to 15% in two years. These are extremely important outcomes of the project
which can only be described as pilot project on account of its very small coverage of the
customer base. Nonetheless the output from this component served the objective of
reducing total losses. The objective could be achieved in a significant measure by
replicating the project extensively.

Study of the Organization of the Heat and Power Sector
A comprehensive study was carried out and it recommended unbundling of the sector by
function and creation of separate legal entities for generation, transmission, distribution
of electricity and distribution of heat. This report along with other studies carried out by
other donors (notably USAID) formed the basis for discussion among the government
and the donors and set in motion the process of restructuring the sector to serve the
intentions of the government towards de-monopolization, private investment, and
introduction of possible competition. Developments in this regard were followed up
under CSAC and have been dealt with comprehensively in the ICR of that operation.




                                              20

    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

    A. Rehabilitation of the Bishkek CHP component (Total investment:$ 26.56 million)
    Project costs incurred in nominal prices during 1997-2007 have been converted into 2007
    prices using US dollar inflation rates shown below:

                              Table A3.1: Capital Costs in 2007 prices
                              1997   1998   1999   2000  2001   2002  2003   2004  2005   2006  2007

USD Inflation rates      %    2.3%   1.6%   2.2%   3.4%   2.8%  1.6%  2.3%   2.7%  3.4%   3.2%  2.9%
Inflation Factor (Middle
of the year)                  1.271 1.247  1.224   1.191 1.155  1.130 1.108  1.082 1.050  1.016 1.000
Total Investment in      USD
Current Prices           mil. 0.09   1.69   5.07   7.62   1.23  0.07  0.00   4.97  1.55    3.09 1.18

Total Investment in      USD
2007 Prices              mil. 0.12   2.11   6.20   9.07   1.42  0.08  0.00   5.38  1.62    3.14 1.18


    Incremental O &M costs were estimated at 1% of the capital costs in 2007 prices.

    The plant uses coal, natural gas and fuel oil in certain proportions. All these are traded
    commodities in Kyrgyz Republic and traded prices have been used. The high ruling
    prices in 2007 price level ($117.63 /1000 cubic meters of gas, $25.40/ton of coal, and
    $ 186.35/ton of heavy fuel oil) is assumed to prevail in real terms during 2008-2027.

    Bishkek CHP is a strategic asset in the Kyrgyz power system, as it is the major and only
    thermal power plant in an otherwise all hydropower system. It provides valuable winter
    energy. It has 24 boilers and 11 turbo-generators. It also has 3 heat-only boilers. All the
    units are 31 to 46 years old and have already far exceeded their normal useful lives. They
    are all steadily declining in their availability and generation capacity owing to age,
    especially in the context of lack of adequate funds to maintain them properly. The
    investments under the rehabilitation component have added the more efficient Turbo-
    generator 11, rehabilitated some of the boilers and other facilities such as coal handling,
    instrumentation and control which resulted in incremental generation of heat and
    electricity and in improved fuel consumption rates. In the context of overall decline in
    capacity of the station, the main effect of the investment was to decelerate the rate of
    decline.

    Based on the data and insights provided by the plant operating experts the trends in the
    production of heat and electricity during 1997-2007 with and without the project have
    been estimated and the incremental heat and power generation by the station attributable
    to the project investments determined (table A3.2)




                                                   21

                Table A3.2: Incremental heat and electricity generation attributable to the project
                                     1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006   2007

Power Output              GWh        1385.6 1351.4  757.3   976.6   973.5   879.4   762.3   781.2   679.7   658.6  634.1

Heat Output               '000
                          GCal       2466.4 2445.6  1842.8  2332.5  2261.0  2101.5  2110.0  2074.5  2148.9  2053.1 1989.1

Power Output
Reduction with Project    GWh                34.2   628.3   409.0   412.1   506.2   623.3   604.4   705.9   727.0  751.5

Heat Output               '000
Reduction with Project    GCal               20.8   623.6   133.9   205.4   364.9   356.4   391.9   317.5   413.3  477.3

Power Output
Reduction w/o Project     GWh                               418.6   481.7   602.7   787.1   707.8   705.9   801.5  904.8

Heat Output               '000
Reduction w/o Project     GCal                              133.9   217.4   405.7   414.0   438.5   317.5   439.8  544.7


          The incremental heat generation was also expressed in terms of equivalent electricity in
          GWh and the total of incremental heat and electricity benefits were arrived at as follows:
                                          Table A3.3: Total Incremental generation
                                                2000   2001     2002   2003     2004   2005    2006    2007

              Incremental electricity    GWh     9.7    69.6    96.6   163.8   103.4     0.0    74.5   153.3
              Incremental Heat
              expressed as electricity   GWh     0.0    14.0    47.4    67.0    54.2     0.0    30.8    78.4

              Total incremental
              generation attributable    GWh     9.7    83.6   144.0   230.8   157.6     0.0   105.3   231.6
              to the project


          The incremental generation of electricity had been valued in the SAR at 4.7 cents/kWh
          based on the concept of willingness to pay. Similarly incremental heat had been valued in
          SAR at $15 per GCal. However Kyrgyz power system is well interconnected to the
          power systems of other Central Asian states and is operated as a part of the Central Asian
          Power System. Kyrgyz Republic exports in summer, and imports in winter, substantial
          volumes of power. Power in this country is a traded commodity and it is more appropriate
          to value it in terms of border price. The latest contract is for the export of power to
          Kazakhstan in summer of 2008 at a price of 3.5 cents/kWh. Thus the incremental
          generation is valued at this price.

          In the base case the level of incremental benefit is assumed to remain constant for 20
          years till 2027. The EIRR thus determined is 16.3%. Even when the capital cost is raised
          by 20% the EIRR remains at an acceptable level of 13.8. In a low case scenario it was
          assumed that the incremental generation will decline gradually by 25% over the 20 year
          period. The EIRR in this case works out to be 15.6%.

          This compares with the SAR estimate of EIRR of 29%. The difference is explicable in
          terms of higher cost, longer construction period, higher than anticipated fuel prices, lower
          (more appropriate) valuation of incremental heat and electricity and the conservative
          method of determining the incremental generation of heat and electricity.
          When the incremental generation is valued at the present average billed price of 1.83
          cents/kWh the IRR falls to 6.8% and 5.9% highlighting the inadequacy of tariff regime.




                                                              22

B. Metering and Loss Reduction (Total investment: $6.30 million)

Under the project single phase and three phase digital consumer meters, service drop
cables, locked and sealed meter enclosures (which enable visual and remote reading, but
which make it difficult to tamper with meters), tools for automatic meter reading, meter
calibrating equipment and meter testing and repair equipment were provided. In addition,
system meters were also installed on low voltage feeders to enable complete energy
accounting and accurate measurement of losses as the difference between the energy
input into the feeder and the total of energy metered and billed for all consumers
connected to the feeder. Given that the total number of meters provided was less than
10% of all consumers in the country, they were installed in selected compact areas in
each distribution company.

Capital costs incurred during 2005-2007 in nominal prices were converted into 2007
prices using the dollar inflation rates indicated above. Incremental O&M was assumed at
1% of the capital cost.

In respect of about 9% to 10% of the meters installed, detailed readings and observations
were made by the four companies for evaluation and control purposes. Based on the
results of readings of the feeder meters and the related consumer meters thus provided by
the four utilities, incremental energy billed (or the reduction in loss) in kWh per meter
installed was determined and this data was used to estimate the extent of annual loss
reduction enabled by the total number of meters installed under the Bank project.

          Table A3.4: Estimate of loss annual reduction for the metering program
                                                                       2006  2007   2008
          No of meters installed at select feeders for evaluation No.  3310  6651
          Annual Losses Reduction at such feeders                 GWh  4.842 6.536
          Annual Losses reduction/ installation of one meter      kWh  1463   983   983
          Total No of meters installed under the program          No.  31373 73449 86691
          Total Annual Losses Reduction                           GWh  45.9   72.2  85.2


It was assumed that the loss reduction level of 85.2 GWh a year will be maintained for
the next 20 years. The saved energy was valued at 3.5 cents/kWh on the basis of the
rationale indicated earlier.

The EIRR thus calculated is 42.8%. When the capital cost is increased by 20%, the EIRR
still remains at a high level of 35.7%. When the actual billed tariff of 1.58 cents/kWh in
2006 and 1.83 cents/kWh of 2007 are used and the same 1.83 cents used for the period
2008-2027, the IRR falls to 21.5%. This indicates that the re-metering program is
financially sound even under the low level of pricing of electricity.




                                                         23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title                Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Salem Ouahes             Task Manager
Marc Heitner             Financial Analyst
Janet Koch               Economist
Kari Nyman                                                           Peer Reviewer
Zoubidha Ladhibi-Belk                                                Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Atur Varadarajan         Senior Financial Analyst         ECSSD
Raghuveer Sharma         Program Team Leader              ECSSD
Mirlan Aldayarov         Urban Specialist                 ECSSD
Natalia Charkova         Operations Officer             ECSIE-HIS
Nargis Ryskulova         Operations Analyst               ECSSD
Christopher L. Rytel     Consultant                       ECSSD      Engineer
Yukari Tsuchiya          Program Assistant                ECSSD
Marat Iskakov            Consultant                       ECSSD      Engineer
V. Krishnaswamy          Consultant                       ECSSD      Economist



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                                    5.32
  FY94                                                                 128.47
  FY95                                                                 115.31
  FY96                                                                 258.17
  FY97                                                                    0.00
  FY98                                                                    0.00
  FY99                                                                    0.00
  FY00                                        6                         28.51
  FY01                                                                    0.00
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                        Total:                6                        535.78



                                          24

Supervision/ICR
 FY93                                  0.00
 FY94                                  0.00
 FY95                                  0.00
 FY96                                  6.25
 FY97                                125.67
 FY98                                122.10
 FY99                                132.66
 FY00                         48    161.47
 FY01                         19      96.47
 FY02                         41    127.25
 FY03                         39    185.87
 FY04                         28      97.54
 FY05                         29      87.18
 FY06                         31    103.72
 FY07                         18      93.30
 FY08                          3      37.92
                   Total:    256    1377.40




                            25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None




                                    26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                     Borrower's ICR
 Report on the Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project in the Kyrgyz Republic
                    and Local Network Improvement for Bishkek city

        Funding for the project was provided by the World Bank (IDA), European Bank
for Development KfW, and a Swiss Agency for Economic Development SECO.

        The Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project comprised the following
segments:
 Part   Reconstruction of Bishkek CHP (financed by the International Development
    Association);
 Part   District Heating System Reconstruction (financed by the Asian Development
    Bank, Northern Fund for Development, and the government of Denmark;
 Part   Reconstruction of Power Supply System (financed by the Asian
    Development Bank, Northern Fund for Development, The Government of
    Switzerland).

        On its own turn, the Part   Reconstruction of Power Supply System  consisted
of the following components:
1. Power meters and testing equipment supply;
2. Circuit Breakers supply for 110 kV (SF6);
3. Construction of 220/110 kV substations and reconstruction of 110/25 kV substations;
4. Substation - 220/110/10 kWh "Naryn" (Phase 2).

        As for Part : initially, the project represented a single set implemented in 2
phases: final supplies and installation of turbine  11 at Bishkek CHP as well as the
plant existing capacity upgrade. However, due to work load miscalculation, it was later
suggested to implement the project in two phases - 1 and 2.

        OJSC "Power Plants" implemented Part  of the Power and District Heating
Rehabilitation Project. Bishkek CHP Rehabilitation included rehabilitation of the plant
systems and equipment in order to increase thermal and electric power generation
capacity and to increase overall effectiveness and reliability of the plant. The
rehabilitation and reconstruction work at the Bishkek CHP was focused on the following
six major areas.

        Phase 1
1. Reconstruction of the plant's turbine generators  the component was implemented
while the KNEHC was in place. Reconstruction of the plant turbine generators included
installation of the new turbine  11, purchase and installation of other support
equipment associated with the operation of the turbine  11.

        Phase 2




                                            27

2. Rehabilitation of boilers  implementation of the component completed on 31.03.2005,
as a result of implementation, Bishkek CHP received the necessary supplies to undertake
the rehabilitation campaign.

3. Reconstruction of the fuel and transportation unit  this segment of the plant systems
reconstruction covers supply and installation of two new sideway coal dumpers, two new
coal crushers and two stations for coal sample testing. Implementation of the component
completed in December 2007.

4. Testing Instruments (TI) Upgrade or upgrade of the TI system included supply and
installation of vibration measurement transmitters and dissolved oxygen devices for
steam boilers and turbines. Implementation of the component allowed upgrading the
plant's information management system by replacing the existing transmitters, converters
and devices on the control panel designated for the boilers  19-24. Implementation of
the component was completed on December 19, 2005.

5. Environmental Protection Stations Upgrade  the CHP reconstruction plan included
supply of portable fuel combustion analyzers. Implementation of the component ended on
30.04.2004.

6. Metal testing lab equipment  Within the framework of Bishkek CHP reconstruction
project, modern lab equipment was purchased in order to run necessary tests. The
component was successfully implemented on 27.03.2002.

        On Part: The Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project included
reconstruction and upgrade of some parts of the central heating system in Bishkek, i.e.
reconstruction of the thermal power networks owned by the OJSC "BishkekTeploSet'".

        Reconstruction of the thermal power supply system was done in 1997-2008. The
reconstruction addressed the issues of enabling remote control and automated hydraulic
and thermal conditions, installation of SKADA system as well as automated pump
stations (pump stations  1, 2, 5, 9, 12 were equipped with pumps with the variable
number of rotations) and reconstruction of the heat points (the total number of
reconstructed heat points was 2228, including  1868 points installed in the residential
apartment buildings). Besides, supply of more than 100 ball valves (with diameter
ranging from 150 to 900 mm) was arranged. Also, expansion joints  700 mm, isolated
pipes with diameter 50-400 mm, pipes - 500-700 mm in diameter were supplied.

        On Part : Funds were earmarked for the project activities in the amount of
US$ 4,051 million in order to implement the component for loss reduction in the power
supply systems of the four distribution companies operating in the Kyrgyz Republic (i.e.
OJSC Severelectro, OJSC Oshelektro, OJSC Jalalabat electro and the OJSC
Vostokelectro). As it was agreed, the project management responsibility, particularly
the one related to procurement for the component, would be placed upon the General
Project Implementation Unit (GPIU) established at the OJSC Severelectro on behalf of
the four power distribution companies. The GPIU staff includes one coordinator from



                                            28

each of the distribution companies and Director on the legal and investment issues who
manages overall operation of the GPIU. The GPIU director is the director for the OJSC
Severelectro.

        The component, in essence, included implementation of the following activities,
financed by IDA credit  28681KG:

        Supplies of static electric power meters (one-phase and three-phase) with
        accuracy rating 1.0 and remote meter reading option
        Supplies of cable for one-phase and three-phase meters installation
        Procurement of construction contracts in order to install meters at the four
        distribution companies
        Auditing services for the distribution companies for the financial years 2003,
        2004 and 2005, including audit of the project activities.

        All the above activities were aimed at ensuring power loss reduction in the system
by 15% on average across the country as well as at improving the power metering system.

        The project was implemented by the GPIU supported by the consultant for the
project design and management  (contract KG#2868RFP/P signed on February 28, 2005
for the total amount of US$ 634 583, on September 27, 2006, the contract was revised for
US$ 64 350, the total amount for the contract was US$ 698 933). The company was
selected based on the bidding funded through grant from Switzerland according to the
bilateral agreement singed on October 21, 2004 (SECO). The following was
accomplished:

        A Chinese company won the international competitive bidding, and supplied
        static electric power meters of accuracy rating 1.0 and remote meter reading
        capacity  in the amount of 86 691 pcs for all the distribution companies;
        contract  KG#2868-ICB/EM as of 16.06.2005 for the total amount of
        US$ 3 984 391.00.

        During the second phase, on July 5, 2006, a contract was signed with the same
company. for additional supply of the meter readers for the total amount of
US$ 3 058 480,0. The meters were supplied in full amounts.

        Supply of cables required for installation of the meters was undertaken in two
        stages:

        The 1st stage  international shopping was done for the total amount not
exceeding US$ 100 000 in line with the Loan Agreement as a result of which a Russian
supplier was selected  which has already supplied the cable in the amount of 232620 m
in total, for three distribution companies. The total amount for the contract  KG#2868-
ITQ/C as of 31.10.2005 was US$ 99 231.96.




                                             29

       The 2nd stage  following the international competitive bidding based on the 2-lot
system, two supplier companies were selected:

       - 1 lot financed by IDA for the supply of 1 027,4 thousand meters of cable for the
OJSC Oshelectro, OJSC Jalalabatelectro and OJSC Vostokelectro - by a Russian
company for the total amount of US$ 742 036,0)
       - 2 lot financed by KfW within the framework of financial cooperation between
Germany and Kyrgyzstan  2 285.18 thousand som for the OJSC Severelectro - by a
Chinese company (for the total amount of US$ 2 118 239.72).

       To date, as for the lot 1, whose supply is financed through IDA loan  contract
was signed on May 29, 2006  the contractor has fulfilled its contract obligations. The
supplies were delivered in full amounts.

      Installation of the meters was done by the local contractor a winner of the local
competitive bidding. Contract KG#2868-NCB-M/04 was signed for the total amount in
local currency - som 29 719 770 and comprises two lots:

      Lot No1  Installation of the meters at the OJSC Oshelectro, OJSC
Jalalabatelectro and OJSC Vostokelectro was funded through the IDA loan.
      Lot No2  Installation of the meters at the OJSC "Severelectro" was funded by the
KfW.

      Further on, the contract was amended to change the amount for US$ 815 789.47.
Moreover, a contract was signed with Swiss Consulting firm for consulting services on
automated billing  IT billing system  contract KG#2868 PRP/IT was signed on August
11, 2005 for the total amount of US$ 331 646, where share of the OJSC "Severelectro"
was US$ 16 756.84.

      Over the entire course of the project implementation, auditing services were
provided by the company KPMG JANAT LLC  a winner of the bidding  for the total
amount of US$ 483 000, where share of the OJSC "Severelectro" was US$ 123 000,0.
Operations of the distribution companies were audited for fiscal years 2003, 2004 and
2005.

       To date, the number of installed metering devices is as follows - 87870 pcs. or
59,9% of the planned number (the plan was 146691 pcs.).:

       OJSC Vostokelectro  15243 pcs. or 97 % (plan - 15651 pcs.);
       OJSC Jalalabatelectro  14147 pcs. or 84 % (plan 16751 pcs.);
       OJSC Oshelectro  14593 pcs. or 88 % (plan - 16643 pcs.).

       As for the OJSC "Severelectro", the total number of meters installed was 43887 or
45 % (plan - 97646 pcs), including:




                                           30

        Alamudun region of power systems (by contractors)  17768 pcs. or 97 % of the
plan (plan - 18324 pcs.);
        Alamudun region of power systems (at own cost)  11766 pcs. or 61 % of the
plan (plan 19322 pcs.);
        Sokuluk region of power systems (by contractors)  14353 pcs. or 24 % of the
plan (plan 60000 pcs.).

Conclusions and Recommendations:

        Overall, implementation of the project has led to positive developments on the
power companies both in terms of technical and financial standing. Productive power
supply has increased significantly, thus, increasing commercial output and cash
collections. Besides, overall feeder consumption decreased, i.e. it is worthwhile to note
that rational use of electric power by end consumers has enhanced.

        Implementation of the project has made it possible to partly replace outdated and
worn out equipment, which, on its turn, increased reliability of the equipment as well as
reliability of electric and thermal power supply to consumers.

        It is worthwhile to note that there were some challenges during the
implementation of the project. Mainly, the complaints came from the distribution
companies, who were unhappy with the number of defective meters and delays with
installation of the meters caused by the contractors in charge.

        However, overall, the project has increased the national energy sector standing
significantly.

        Moreover, discussions on the sector issues, such as electricity tariff policy making,
institutional reforms in the sector, perspectives for the sector development, were held
with the World Bank missions. All the comments and ideas shared by the experts were
taken into consideration and will be kept in mind for decision-making in the future.

        To date, there is an urgent need for improving the corporate management of the
distribution companies in order to stabilize financial state of the companies. We hope that
the World Bank provides informational assistance in addressing the issue.

        Additionally, all managers of the distribution companies agreed unequivocally on
the acute demand for further investments in the energy sector of the Kyrgyz Republic and
expressed willingness to continue the cooperation with the World Bank, in particular, and
the international donor community, as a whole.

        We hope for further productive cooperation.




                                             31

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report (IDA-28680) Report No. 15145-KG (April 1996)
President's Report (IDA-28680)
President's Report for the Supplementary loan (IDA-28681)
Board Document for Restructuring the Credit (April 2003)
Memo to VP for further restructuring (Dec 2005)
Quarterly progress reports by PAU of KNEHC and later JSC Power Plant
Quarterly progress reports by PAU in JSC Severelectro
Implementation Completion Report for Part A- Bishkek CHP dated 7 March 2008 from
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Fuel Resources
Environmental Protection Measures within the Framework of the Project from Bishkek
CHP plant
Implementation Completion Report on the District Heating System from the General
Director of JSC Bishkek TeploSet
Technical Data for calculation of EIRR from Bishkek CHP plant and PAU of JSC
Severelectro
Project Completion Report No PCR: KGZ 29024 for the Power and District Heat
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1443 KGZ SF) of ADB (August 2004)
Audit reports of the Implementing agencies for several years
Independent Procurement Review report by N. Viswanathan (February 2003)
Implementation Completion Report from the Borrower (March 2008)




                                          32

