Report No. 1009a-PH                                                       FILE  COPY
Philippines
Chico River Irrigation Project: Stage I
Appraisal Report
March 9, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted dfstrtbution and may be used by recipients
only mn the perTformance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwrse be dsclosed without World Bank authfiozatton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Pesos (R) 7.50
P 1.00               US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                   =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 -    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         =    0.3886 miles
1 meter (m)                      =   39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)              =   10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)               =   35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)    =  810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)                =    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                  -    2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                  =   50 kg
20 cavans                               1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
ADCC           Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
DAR            Department of Agrarian Reform
DPH            Department of Public Highways
MRMP           Magat River Multipurpose Project
NIA            National Irrigation Administration
NISIS          National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
NPC            National Power Corporation
UPRP           Upper Pampanga River Project
USBR           United States Bureau of Reclamation
WMT            Water Management Technologist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION  ...............................   i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........................................                          1
II.    BACKGROUND  .............................................    1
General.
The Agricultural  Sector  ..........................    2
The  Critical  Role of Water  Development  ....                .......    2
Project Formulation  ..............................    3
III.     THE PROJECT AREA  ......................................    4
General  ...........................................    4
Climate  ..........................................    5
Topography,  Drainage,  and  Soils  ...................
Land Tenure and Farm  Size  ........................    5
Existing  Irrigation Facilities  ...................    6
Agricultural  Production  ..........................    6
Transportation  ...................................    7
IV.  THE PROJECT  ...........................................                             7
Project  Irrigation Works  .........................    7
Water  Supply,  Demand and  Quality  .................    9
Status  of Engineering  ............................   10
Provincial  Road  Program  ..........................   11
Erosion  Control  Study  ............................   12
Input-Output Mfonitoring  ..........................   12
Feasibility  Study  Stage  II Irrigation  ....                ........   12
Cost  Estimates  ...................................   12
Financing  ........................................   13
Procurement  ......................................   14
Disbursements  ....................................   15
Accounts and Audit  ...............................   15
Environmental  Effects  ............................   15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, K.E. Ireland, K.V.S.K. Nathan, M.G. Saddington and
J.T. Caparas (Bank).
This docunment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......   ....................  15
Project Management .........  ......................  15
Supporting Agricultural Services .....  ............  17
Cost and Benefit Recovery ......  ..................  17
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES    19
Production . .......................................   9
Market Prospects .........  ........................  19
Prices ............................................  20
Farm Incomes ............ .........................  20
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......   .....................  22
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION  .....  ............  23
ANNEXES
1.  Cagayan Basin Development
2.  Climatological Data
3.  Land Tenure and Reform
4.  Project Irrigation Works
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.  Provincial Road Program
7.  Erosion Control Study
8.  Input-Output Monitoring Program
9.  Cost Estimates
10.  Equipment List
11.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
12.  Organization and Management
13.  Supporting Agricultural Services
14.  Present and Projected Cropping Pattern and Production
15.  Market Prospects and Prices
16.  Crop and Farm Budgets
17.  Farm Labor Analysis
18.  Cost and Benefit Recovery
19.  Economic Analysis
20.  Schedule of Early Events



3
Page No.
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 15355
NIA Organization for Special Projects No. 9533 (2R)
Proposied Organization for Implementation No. 15356
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 9535 (R)
Propos(ed Cropping Calendar No. 9536 (R)
Opportunity Cost for Labor No. 15379
MAP
Chico River Irrigation Project: Stage I No. 11944R



I
I I 
I



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance
to carry out Stage I of the Chico River Irrigation Project located in the
Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon. Stage I of the project would develop
the unregulated water supply of the Chico river for irrigation and improve
provincial roads under the adjacent Magat River Multipurpose Project:
Stage I (Loan 1154-PH). The irrigation component comprises rehabilitation
and upgrading some 7,800 ha of small and scattered gravity and pump irriga-
tion systems and extension of irrigation to 11,900 ha of rainfed rice lands.
Stage I also provides technical assistance to the National Irrigation Ad-
ministration (NIA) for preparation of an erosion control study of the Magat
and Pampanga river catchments and setting up an input-output monitoring
system for all Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Central and Northern
Luzon. A total of about 95 man-months of consultants services would be
rquired. Additionally, a feasibility study for Stage II irrigation would be
prepared by NIA under the project. The road component comprises improvement
of three provincial roads, with a total length of 65 km.
ii.       Major Government objectives in the agricultural sector are to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic foods and to correct regional economic
and social imbalances. The project would assist in meeting both objectives
by expanding double crop rice irrigation into an area where regional per
capita income is the lowest in the nation. It would be the first step
in the Government's long term plan to develop the land and water resources
of the Chico river basin.
iii.      The next phase in the basin's development would be construction
of the Chico 4 storage dam for hydroelectric power. The dam would also
provide a regulated water supply which would permit the expansion of the
irrigation system to 49,000 ha under Stage II of the project. The Chico 4 dam,
the first in a series of four multi-purpose dams in the basin, was selected as
a first priority over the other three dams because it would involve resettle-
ment of only about 75 tribal families whereas a much larger resettlement
program would be involved at the other sites and the Government has been
experiencing some opposition from the tribesmen to large scale resettlement.
Feasibility studies for the Chico 4 project are underway with the help of
consultants financed under a bilateral German aid program. The studies are
expected to be completed in about two years and construction of the dam is
tentatively scheduled to start in 1979. Stage I of the project would derive
its water supply from the unregulated flow of the Chico river. It is an
economically viable unit on its own and is not dependent on either a storage
dam or a second stage irrigation development. The feasibility study for Stage
II irrigation would be coordinated with the Chico 4 storage dam study.



- ii -
iv.       The deficit in rice, the main staple food crop, has been a
persistent problem for the Philippines, and annual rice imports have
averaged around 300,000 tons in recent years. With improved water control
being a prerequisite to obtaining optimum results from the new high yielding
rice varieties, an annual total of about 50,000 ha of rice lands would
have to be rehabilitated or provided with a new irrigation system over
the remainder of the decade to allow the country to achieve rice self-suffi-
ciency. The proposed project would be the sixth Bank-assisted project
aimed at helping the Government to achieve this goal. The first was the
Upper Pampanga River.Project (Loan 637-PH), the second ,the Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation Project (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH), the third the Tarlac Irrigation
Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), the fourth the Mindoro Rural
Development (Loan 1102-PH), and the fifth the Magat River Multipurpose
Project: Stage I (Loan 1154-PH). Except for the Magat project, which is in
the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, and the Rural Development Project on
the island of Mindoro, the other projects are located in Central Luzon.
v.        Total cost of the project is estimated at P 630.0 million (US$84.0
million) of which US$33.0 million, or approximately 39%, would be in foreign
exchange. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component as well as
US$17.0 million of local currency requirements. Civil works costing US$23.9
million and equipment costing US$3.3 million would be put to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The remaining
civil works would not be suitable for international competitive bidding
because of their nature and would be carried out by locally advertised
contract (US$10.8 million) or by force account (US$7.1 million).
vi.       NIA would be the executing agency for the project, except for the
provincial roads component which would be carried out by the Department of
Public Highways (DPH). NIA's responsibilities would be carried out by the
Special Projects Organization, which is in charge of all Bank-assisted
irrigation projects. Both NIA and DPH are well staffed with competent person-
nel and would be able to implement the project successfully. Due to its size
and proximity, the project would be executed as a division of the Magat
project.
vii.      At full development of Stage I of the project, nine years after
commencement of work, annual paddy production from the project area is
expected to reach 147,000 tons compared with a current level of production
of 50,000 tons. The increased production would make a contribution to
the national campaign for self-sufficiency by providing enough rice to
feed nearly 600,000 persons per year.
viii.     Under the Government's program of agrarian reform, sharecropping
has been abolished and title to land in holdings over 7 ha is now being
transferred to the cultivators. When the transfer is completed, tentativ-
ely by the end of 1977, about 85% of the land in the project would be



- iii -
farmed by owner operators and the rest by leasehold tenants of small
landlords. Some 8,000 farm families cultivate the project area, working an
average unit of 2.5 ha. The project would increase the annual per capita
income on a 2 ha farm from $55 at present to $290 at full agricultural
development in 1986. For a 4 ha farm at full development in 1986 the per
capita income would be US$530. By comparison about 84% of the project's
farm families accounting for 75% of the land are presently at or below the
Bank's estimated absolute per capita poverty level of US$140. These
comparisons indicate that the project would narrow.the income gap between
the project area and other parts of the country for the small farmers (2 ha
or less) while for the larger farmers (4 ha or more) per capita farm income
would be slightly above the projected national average per capita GNP.
ix.       The project would require a controlled cropping timetable to allow
for a cropping intensity of 186% which in turn would create an increase in
farm labor employment opportunities equivalent to about 4,700 full time jobs.
The economic rate of return of the project is expected to be about 15%. The
rate of return is only moderately sensitive to increases in costs and delays
in benefits. If one-half the cost of the diversion dam is charged to power
(which it would ultimately serve for reregulation), the remaining diversion
dam costs proportioned between Stages I and II on an area basis and the excess
canal capacity is charged to Stage II irrigation for which it would be needed,
the economic rate of return increases to 21%.
x.        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$50.0 million
for a period of 25 years, including a six-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Republic of the Philippines.



S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance in
financing the first stage of the Chico River Irrigation Project in the Cagayan
Valley of Northern Luzon, one of the few areas of Luzon where such development
potential exists. Stage I would irrigate 19,700 ha by gravity diversion from
the Chico river with an assured water supply during the wet season and a dry
season supply adequate for 17,000 ha. The diversion dam and main diversion
canals would be constructed with capacity for a second stage irrigation devel-
opment that would expand the irrigated area to 49,000 ha. Stage II irrigation
would be dependent on flow regulation provided by a multipurpose storage dam
to be constructed on the Chico river about 20 km upstream of the diversion
dam. The diversion would also serve as an afterbay for daily reregulation
of releases from the storage dam for hydroelectric power generation.
1.02      The principal components of the proposed project are (i) irriga-
tion development and (ii) a provincial roads program. The National Irriga-
tion Administration (NIA) prepared the feasibility report for the irrigation
component and the Department of-Public Highways (DPH) prepared the feasibi-
lity report for the provincial roads program. Mr. F. E. Rippon (consultant)
assisted NIA with establishing the design standards in April, 1975. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Philippines in October, 1975 composed of Messrs. E. G. Giglioli, K. R. Ireland,
K.V.S.K. Nathan, M. G. Saddington and J. T. Caparas (Bank).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 km2scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 43 million
(1975), growing at a rate of 2.8% annually. Real GNP, which had a trend
growth rate of 5% to 6% in the 1960's, grew by 10% in 1973 due to high prices
for export commodities, but has grown at only about 6% in 1974 and 1975 as
some industries have been adversely affected by the recession in the Philip-
pines' trading partners. Inflation related to high export prices and in-
creased oil and food prices was a major problem in 1974, but abated markedly
in 1975. Unequal income distribution and underemployment remain major eco-
nomic problems.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half
is in forests and about one-third under cultivation or in plantations.
About 2.0 to 2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still available for
growing crops, though some 1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland
which would be difficult to reclaim. Bringing this additional land under
cultivation would be insufficient by itself to meet increasing food needs



-2-
or to improve rural income significantly. These goals call for increasing
production from currently cultivated areas through yield improvements and
increasd cropping intensity where water is available.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one-third of net domestic product,
over one-half of total employment and 70% of export earnings. During the
1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output accelerated gradually and
averaged 4.7% per year for the 1965-70 period, stimulated by the spread of
improved rice varieties. During the next five years, the spread of new
varieties slowed; typhoons in 1972 and high fertilizer prices in 1974 further
affected agricultural output, which grew by only 3.2% a year on average from
1970-74. The growth rate of rice production from 1970 to 1974 was only 1.4% a
year. The failure of food supply to keep pace with demand caused the ratio of
food prices to prices in general to increase by 37% over the period. This,
combined with high world prices for sugar and coconut products, led to a
substantial shift in the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture,
which encouraged rural people to stay on the farm. In the face of sluggish
growth of manufacturing employment, much of the growth of the labor force in
recent years has therefore taken place in agriculture. Although value added
per worker in agriculture has increased in current prices, it has declined in
real terms, implying growing rural underemployment.
2.04      There is considerable pressure of people on land in the Philippines,
where the population density is 131 people/km2 compared with the Asian average
of 86. Lowland areas best suited for rice have been fully occupied for over a
decade. Migration is heavy from the overcrowded regions of Central Luzon and
the Visayas to the Cagayan Valley in north-eastern Luzon and Mindanao in the
south.
2.05      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a more rapid but more equitable income expan-
sion succeeds. The major goals are self-sufficiency in cereals, particularly
rice and corn; development of the livestock and fisheries sector; expansion of
agricultural exports; intensification of agrarian reform; better conservation
of natural resources; and strengthening of institutional support. Self-suf-
ficiency in cereals is important not only to strengthen the balance of pay-
ments, but also to raise incomes for much of the rural population.
The Critical Role of Water Development
2.06      After allowance for increases in rainfed rice production, the
Philippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without substantial invest-
ment in irrigation expansion and improvement. Performance of irrigation sys-
tems in the country falls far short of their potential. The Sector Survey 1/
estimates that, out of a total of 960,000 ha which could be served by existing
irrigation systems, only 630,000 ha are served in the rainy season and 254,000
ha in the dry season. Almost all of the irrigated area is devoted to rice.
1/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
39a-PH).



- 3 -
The NIA's gravity systems are the main component. In addition, NIA has
constructed and rehabilitated a substantial part of the small privately
operated communal systems, averaging 250-300 ha. The Irrigation Services
Unit, now under NIA's administrative supervision, is responsible for pump
irrigation schemes. The 104 NIA gravity systems varying in size from 130 ha
to 83,000 ha, are usually run-of-the-river schemes with insufficient control
structures in the canals, inadequate drainage and little provision for access.
Even when the systems are new, water distribution is uneven during the wet
season and limited during the dry season.  Maintenance  has been minimal-due
to shortages of staff and funds and the lack of access roads for maintenance
machinery. A vicious circle has developed by which lack of maintenance
discourages farmers from paying operation and maintenance charges, which in
turn precludes further maintenance.
2.07      This unsatisfactory situation began to change in the late 1960s.
The NIA was reorganized, more advanced irrigation designs were introduced
and much higher levels of water management aimed at. Simultaneously, the need
for intensified agricultural supporting services on irrigation projects was
realized. The Bank-assisted Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (UPRP)
(Loan 637-PH) and the Magat River Multipurpose Project (MRMP); Stage I (Loan
1154-PH) and the Asia Development Bank (ADB) - assisted Angat-Magat Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP), typify the new approach. The pat-
tern of rehabilitation, new construction and operation exemplified by these
projects is essential for large-scale rice production. Indeed, to meet domes-
tic rice demand in the 1970s, a program of rehabilitation and new construction
in the rice lands of 50,000 ha per year will be needed for the remainder of
the decade. The proposed project would thus be entirely compatible with
Government objectives for water resources development.
Project Formulation
2.08      The 1975 Chico River Irrigation Project feasibility report prepared
by NIA, proposed development of the irrigation potential in two stages, the
first utilizing the unregulated flows of the Chico river and the second
utilizing the dependable water supply provided by upstream multipurpose
storage, the subject of a feasibility study by the National Power Corporation
(NPC). Preliminary studies by NPC, with consultant assistance, indicated that
four storage dams and hydroelectric generating plants could be constructed
with a combined generating capacity of 1,000 MW. Development of the Chico
river hydroelectric power potential is a priority item in NPC's planning to
meet the rapidly growing national energy requirements and is scheduled for
early implementation.
2.09      The Chico River Irrigation Project, adjacent to and practically
an extension of the irrigated lands under the Magat project 1/, is scheduled
for implementation over a nine-year period in the following stages:
1/   Magat River Multipurpose Project:  Stage I (Loan 1154-PH).



-4-
(a) Stage I would consist of rehabilitation of several existing
irrigation systems and construction of new facilities. The
entire command are of 19,700 ha would be served by run-of-
the-river diversion. Construction would be completed over
a five-year period (1976-1980).
(b) Stage II, which would be constructed over a five-year period
(1980-1984), is dependent on construction of a storage dam
on the Chico river to augment the dry season flow of the river.
It would consist of expanding the irrigation facilities to
command an area of 49,000 ha.
(c) A Storage Dam and hydroelectric power generating facilities
are scheduled to be constructed over a six-year period (1979-
1984) following three years of feasibility study and preparatory
work. Because of local opposition, focus of the study has been
shifted from the Chico 2 to the Chico 4 site where only about 75
families live in the reservoir area.  It is the Government's
intention to carry out resettlement of the families before
starting construction of the dam.
Details on the development of irrigation in the Cagayan Valley, the role of
the project and its phasing are at Annex 1. Stage I is an economically
viable unit on its own (para. 7.03) and is not dependent on construction
of Stage II irrigation facilities or on provision of storage on the Chico
river.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Cagayan, Isabela and Kalinga - Apayao
provinces in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, just north of the Siffu
River Irrigation System being rehabilitated with Bank assistance under
Stage I of the Magat project (Map No. 11944R). Aside from a small amount
of irrigation, the project area is presently devoted to rainfed cultiva-
tion of rice during the wet season. Consequently, rice yields are low
and adoption of high yielding varieties has been slow. On those lands
now irrigated, systems are not completely developed, water distribution
is poor and dry season water supply is limited.
3.02      There are a number of small towns with populations of less than
10,000 people scattered throughout the area. The larger towns, including
Tuguegarao, the capital of Cagayan Province which lies just outside the pro-
ject area, provide banking, storage, and processing facilities as well as
supplies of inputs to the agricultural area. The Cagayan Valley is connected
by national highway to Central Luzon and Manila to the south and the port of
Aparri on the Babuyan Channel to the north.



-5-
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. About 75% of the average annual rainfall of 1,800 mm falls in
the six-month period of July through December, with the heaviest rain in
November. The Cagayan Valley and Ilocos regions of Northern Luzon show the
highest frequency of passing typhoon centers in the Philippines. Over a
25-year period between 1948 and 1972 the regions were hit by an average of
3 typhoons per year, with the highest frequency between July and November.
The statistics are for the whole of Northern Luzon. This does not mean
that all storms hit the project area and the statistics tell nothing of the
extent or severity of the typhoons. These storms may cause flooding and
damage to crops and the potential effects on project crop production is
explained at Annex 14. The rainfall, together with river flows in the wet
season, is generally adequate for a single rice crop. Dry season cropping,
however, entails considerably more risk from rainfall deficiencies and irri-
gation is essential for an assured crop. Further climatic details are pre-
sented at Annex 2.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.04      The project area is located on flood plains and gently sloping tri-
butary valleys of the Cagayan and Chico rivers. It is bounded on the south
by the Mallig river, on the east by the Cagayan river and on the north
and west by the Chico river and foothills of the Cordillera Range. The
several areas comprising the project are separated by low and high hills.
Large and small creeks traverse the areas serving as natural drainage ways.
Because of high rainfall intensities and flat relief, drainage problems
exist in some portions of the project area. Low areas are subject to short
periods of flooding from overflowing streams. Water velocities are low and
cause little damage to land, but there is some crop damage, depending on
the stage of growth at time of flooding.
3.05      Soils in the project area are mostly of alluvial origin, are pre-
dominantly light brown or grey loams or silty loams, with granular struc-
tures, medium textures, slightly acidic reactions and fairly good internal
drainage. They are generally high in organic matter. The soils are
suited for rice, which has been grown in the project area for many years
without problems.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.06      Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian re-
form aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and
corn lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the
new program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of the land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in
a rainfed area. According to PD 27, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he
tills the land himself. Since there are some 2 million rice and corn farmers
on about 4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated, there is



-6-
little prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family
farms nationwide. Furthermore, some 85% of the landlords have holdings of
less than 7 ha and there are no plans at present for the transfer of lands in
this category. The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) completed the issue of
land transfer certificates to tenants of all land in holdings over 24 ha
in 1975. In November 1974 the Government decided to proceed with the transfer
of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha.
3.07      DAR surveys show that some 8,000 farm families, averaging 5.5 mem-
bers for a total of about 44,000 people, live in the project area. The aver-
age farm unit is 2.5 ha with about 84% of the farms, covering 83% of the area,
falling between 1 and 5 ha. The farm size distribution is as follows:
Farm Size       Farm Holdings      Cultivated Area
(ha)        --------       -  %…
Less than 1          11                   2
1 - 3          68                 55
3 - 5          16                 28
5 - 7           4                 11
More than 7           1                   4
Total           100                100
According to DAR data the 19,700 ha in the project area were owned by some
4,880 people, 95% of whom held less than 7 ha. However, this group accounted
for only 70% of the land. The remaining 5% of the owners accounted for 5,850
ha or 30% of the area. There are about 4,100 tenant farmers on 8,470 ha in
the project area. The transfer of landlord holdings larger than 7 ha will
involve some 2,800 tenants on 5,850 ha. Including about 3,950 present owner-
operators on 11,230 ha, when the land transfer is complete some 6,800 owner-
operators or 85% of the farmers in the project area will cultivate 17,100 ha
or 87% of the land. The remaining 1,300 tenant farmers on holdings under 7 ha
would no longer be share-croppers, but would have written lease agreements
providing for payments of fixed rents (Annex 3).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.08      The only national irrigation system in the project area is the
Chico West system, originally planned for 2,000 ha which commands about
1,400 ha, but only irrigates about 1,100 ha because of lack of distribution
facilities. This system, which diverts water from the Chico river, irrigates
about 1,000 ha in the dry season. In addition there are some 3,200 ha irriga-
ted by communal systems and a further 3,200 ha by privately owned pumps scat-
tered throughout the project area. Due to the limited dry season water sup-
ply and the increasingly high cost of diesel fuel for pumping, dry season
irrigation is restricted to about 2,700 ha in the communal systems and 1,600
ha in the pump systems.
Agricultural Production
3.09      Rice grown by transplanting is by far the most important crop in
the area. A little corn is grown on the coarser textured and better drain-
ing soils immediately adjacent to the river banks but the area cropped is



-7-
not significant. On about 90% of the project area soil and drainage con-
ditions are unsuitable for crops other than rice. The majority of farmers
in the irrigated areas use improved rice varieties, while in the rainfed
areas farmers rely mainly on the lower yielding, but hardier local varieties.
In the irrigated areas the average paddy yield is 2.3 ton/ha in the wet sea-
son and 2.7 ton/ha in the dry season. The yield of rainfed paddy averages
1.5 ton/ha. The low yields are due to unsatisfactory water management,
difficulties in getting the crop out of the fields because of lack of roads,
and poor farming practices such as insufficient use of inputs and untimeliness
of operations.
3410      In rainfed areas most farmers rely entirely on animal power for
land preparation, while in the irrigated areas mechanical land preparation
is practiced on about 60% of the crop area. Mechanical cultivation is
mostly done by four wheel tractors and rotary tillers. Threshing of the
rainfed crop is almost entirely manual while mechanical threshers are used
on close to two-thirds of the irrigated crop. Most of the equipment is
operated by contractors.
Transportation
3.11      The Cagayan Valley is traversed by the Philippine-Japanese Friend-
ship National Highway (No. 5) linking it with the port of Aparri on the
Babuyan Channel to the north and to Central Luzon and Manila to the south.
There is a limited network of largely unpaved provincial and municipal
roads serving the project area and linking it to the national highways.
Road improvements under the adjacent Magat project will improve regional
access to the project area. The provincial government is engaged in a program
of replacing existing wooden bridges with permanent concrete structures.
There is no railroad service in the area. Under the project, access roads for
construction and 0 & M roads for the irrigation facilities would also serve as
feeder roads to handle the increased production.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project proposed for Bank financing would (i) upgrade exist-
ing irrigation systems and extend irrigation service to currently rainfed
rice lands, a total of 19,700 ha, to standards adopted for the Magat project;
and (ii) improve provincial roads, a total of 65.1 km, under the adjacent
Magat project. The project would include:
(a) Irrigation Development
(i) construction of a diversion dam and intake works
on the Chico river;
(ii) construction of a catch dam and intake works on
Talaca creek;



-8-
(iii) rehabilitation and extension of an existing 1,400 ha
NIA system and construction of a drainage system;
(iv) construction of an irrigation and drainage system
for small local communal systems totaling 3,200 ha
and for small pump irrigation systems totaling a
further 3,200 ha;
(v) construction of new irrigation and drainage facilities
for 11,900 ha of rainfed rice; and
(vi) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
(b) Provincial Road Program
(i) improvement of the Roxas-Gamu road, (35.2 km);
(ii) improvement of the Cabatuan-Cauayan road, (11.0 km); and
(iii) improvement of the San Mateo-Alicia road, (18.9 km).
The Project would also provide for preparation of a feasibility study by
NIA for Stage II irrigation, and for technical assistance to NIA for an
erosion control study of the Magat and Pampanga river catchments, and
for an input-output monitoring system to monitor production inputs and
the flow of project benefits for all Bank-assisted irrigation projects,
covering some 210,000 ha and about 85,000 farm families.
Project Irrigation Works
4.02      The Chico diversion dam would be constructed on the Chico river
with an intake for the main diversion canal, which would be sized for
Stage I lands and for expansion under Stage II irrigation development to
serve a total of 49,000 ha. The base cost of the excess intake and main
canal capacity amounts to US$9.8 million. The diversion dam would also
provide daily regulation of power releases from the Chico 4 storage dam
to be constructed simultaneously with Stage II irrigation. Access roads
would be built to facilitate construction and operation and maintenance.
4.03      The existing NIA Chico West System of 1,400 ha would be reha-
bilitated, upgraded and extended to serve a total of 2,000 ha by repairing
existing canals and structures and by providing additional canals, control
structures, drains and turnouts to manage water deliveries effectively.
4.04      Some 3,200 ha of small communal gravity irrigation systems and a
further 3,200 ha of small pump irrigation systems scattered throughout the
service area would be provided a new irrigation and drainage system and
brought under the project. These lands are now incompletely developed,
inadequately served, for the most part without on-farm facilities and are
chronically short of water in the dry season. The remainder of the project
comprises some 11,900 ha of presently rainfed rice lands. New irrigation



-9-
and drainage works would be constructed for these lands with adequate control
structures and turnouts for efficient water control and delivery.
4.05      The project would be constructed to the same standards of on-farm
water distribution and drainage as the adjacent Magat project (Annex 4).
Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the land is reason-
ably level and well laid out with little fragmentation of land holdings.
Therefore, no land leveling, boundary realignment or land consolidation
would be provided. The canal systems would have a turnout for each 10 ha from
which farm ditches built as part of the project would provide direct delivery
to about 80% of all holdings. Each 10 ha block would also be served by a
collector drain. All canals would be unlined except for small sections of the
main diversion canal in high fill. Small buildings would be provided for
Water Management Technologists operating 500 ha of irrigated land apiece (para
5.04) and rice drying floors of 400 m2 would be provided near or adjacent
to the buildings. Some existing access roads would be improved and, where
needed, new ones would be built. About 420 km of roads for operation and
maintenance would be built along the major canals and laterals.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.06      The project would derive its water supply from the unregulated
flow of the Chico river. Stream flow records are available very near the
diversion site and at several upstream locations since 1963 and at a down-
stream location from 1955-1964. Following analysis of inconsistencies between
station records and comparisons with measured rainfall over the basin, an up-
stream station about midway in the catchment was considered the most reliable
and was used as the base for estimating water supply at the diversion site.
From these data a 10-year period including extremely low dry season flows was
selected as representative of normal flow conditions and the variation that
can be expected in a critical year. A separate analysis of stream flow at the
downstream station nearest the diversion site and its extension over a 20 year
period, without correction for inconsistencies with other stations and rain-
fall, gave essentially the same results for the low flow months which are
critical to project water supply without storage.
4.07      Water requirements for the project were based on two rice crops per
year. Taking into account the higher farm irrigation efficiencies expected
after project development, anticipated conveyance and operational losses and
effective rainfall, annual diversion requirements are estimated to total 2.4
m, of which 1.5 m would be required in the dry season. The proposed cropping
calendar would maximize the use of rainfall for both wet and dry season crops.
4.08      Stage I of the project was formulated to utilize as nearly as pos-
sible the assured water supply from the Chico river for double crop irriga-
tion without storage regulation. This resulted in the 19,700 ha selected for
development, of which 17,000 ha would have a dry season water supply for a
cropping intensity of 186%. When upstream storage is available, Stage II
irrigation development would expand the area to a total of 49,000 ha with
dry season water adequate for 45,000 ha. In selecting the dry season area
which could be served, low flows expected one year in five were used



- 10 -
together with a water deficiency criteria of not more than 20% in only one
month. In four years out of five there would be ample water for the total
command area. Furthermore, the critical month for water supply would be
during land preparation for the dry season crop when there would be some
flexibility in water deliveries in the previous month. There are no water
rights on the Chico river that would interfere with either Stage I or II of
the project. Although existing upstream uses of water are minor, assurances
were obtained that the necessary water rights would be granted to NIA and
no other water rights which could adversely affect the project water supply
would be granted except by mutual agreement with the Bank.
4.09      Tests of water samples from the Chico river show good water quality
with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. The water is of low salinity,
slightly alkaline and is free of toxic elements. The water is turbid
during the wet season, but no adverse effects have been noted on the soils
or crops irrigated with this water for nearly 20 years.
Status of Engineering
4.10      Project planning studies, designs and estimates of the irrigation
and drainage systems and associated works were carried out by NIA. For the
Chico West rehabilitation area, surveys were made of the existing main canals
and cross sections were taken at 20 to 100 m intervals to determine excava-
tion quantities. Rehabilitation costs of the remaining laterals, drainage
and on-farm facilities were based on unit cost estimates obtained from a
sample area for which detailed mapping and designs were prepared. Surveys
were also made of the principal canals in extension areas to determine
construction quantities. Existing 1:50,000 scale maps were used to determine
lateral locations and costs were based on unit costs for a sample area
within the Quezon-Malling service area. Farm ditch and drain requirements
within the rotational areas were also determined by the sample area method.
Canal structure requirements in the rehabilitation areas were determined in
the field by NIA inspectors and costs were estimated for repair, replace-
ment or additions. Structure requirements in the extension areas were deter-
mined according to basic irrigation design practices. Operation and mainte-
nance roads were based on canal capacity and needs within the service area,
and were checked in the field to ensure that adequate access to project works
would be provided. Sufficient investigations have been made to assure that
suitable materials are available for construction of canal embankments and
maintenance roadways.
4.11      Enlarged rectified aerial photographs of the project irrigation
service area at a scale of 1:10,000 were completed by contract in 1971 and
these photographs were used in preparing the base maps for land classifica-
tion. Detailed topographic mapping of the sample areas was carried out to a
scale of 1:4,000 and for the diversion dam and catch dam at a scale of
1:2,000. NIA is extending the detailed topographic mapping on the service
area at appropriate scale and this will be completed in conjunction with
final designs and estimates for construction.
4.12      Construction of the irrigation and drainage system would start in
1977 with preconstruction activities starting in mid-1976 (see Chart 15355).



- 11 -
The provincial roads component would include preconstruction activities
through 1976, start of construction in 1977 and completion by the end of
calendar year 1978. All project works are expected to be completed by the
end of calendar year 1980. The erosion control study would be carried out
over a 30-month period, from mid-1976 through 1978. The input-output moni-
toring component would be carried out under the project throughout the im-
plementation period and carried on thereafter by NIA.
Provincial Road Program
4.13      The Bank-assisted Magat project includes upgrading and construction
of about 830 km of low standard roads, located on canal banks. The improve-
ment of Cagayan Valley arterial roads that link the project area to the
central and southwestern parts of Luzon Island was deferred for consideration
under a later project to enable preparation work to be completed. As the
preparation work for roads under the Magat project is now substantially done,
it was decided to include those roads in the present project, except for the
Tuguegarao - Santiago National Highway (130 km) which required further studies
and was therefore deferred for further consideration under the proposed Fourth
Highway Project scheduled for Bank appraisal in March 1977.
4.14      The 65 km provincial road component to be carried out by DPH com-
prises the following segments: Roxas-Gamu Road (35.2 km), Cabatuan-Cauayan
Road (11.0 km) and San Mateo-Alicia Road (18.9 km).  Although these roads
directly serve only the Magat project area, the Roxas-Gamu Road also provides
a less congested road outlet to the Chico project area as an alternative to
the Philippines - Japanese Friendship National Highway (Map 11944R). The
Tuguegarao - Quezon-Santiago National Highway is presently being studied
by consultants and reconstruction of the road is expected to commence early
in 1978 with road opening in 1981. Until the Magat river crossing on this
national highway is improved, the Roxas-Gamu road will serve the dual role of
a through road and as a local road serving the farmers under the Chico project.
The Cabatuan-Cauayan and San Mateo-Alicia roads are principally local roads
and their improvement will enable the transport of goods at lower costs. The
benefits are likely to be shared by the farmers and by consumers in urban
centers in Central and Southern Luzon.
4.15      All the roads are located in fairly flat country with good align-
ments. The improvements proposed consist of the widening of the three
roads to DPH Class II standards (Annex 6). The roads would have 6.1 m wide
pavements with double bituminous surface dressing and gravel shoulders 1.5 m
wide. The roads are now subject to occasional flooding due to surface run-off
and excessive irrigation water. The latter problem will be considerably eased
by the Magat project but it would still be necessary to raise road embankments
by about 0.5 m. Sub-grade consists mainly of silty or clayey soils and the
existing roads have poorly maintained gravel surfaces except for short bitu-
minous sections through urban areas. However, the existing bridges are in
good condition and would be retained. No new bridges are needed but new
culverts and drains are required. The detailed engineering is now being car-
ried out by Region II, DPH and bidding documents are expected to be completed
by June 1976.



- 12 -
Erosion Control Study
4.16      The erosion control study for Magat and Pampanga catchments
(Annex 7) would assess erosion problems, quantify present damage to the
catchments, evaluate remedial measures and propose a project comprising a
plan of erosion control measures and land use to correct existing damage and
prevent further damage. Assurances were obtained that NIA would engage a
consulting firm satisfactory to the Bank for this work and under terms of
reference to be approved by the Bank.
Input-Output Monitoring
4.17      The input-output monitoring program (Annex 8) would establish a
system of monitoring production inputs and project benefits for the Chico
project and all Bank-assisted irrigation projects covering some 210,000 ha and
about 85,000 farm families. The system would provide warnings of input
bottlenecks and indicate the size and direction of benefit flows. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would engage consultants satisfactory to the Bank and
under terms of reference to be approved by the Bank to assist with this
work.
Feasibility Study Stage II Irrigation
4.18      The feasibility study for Stage II irrigation to expand the area
irrigated under the project to about 49,000 ha would be carried out by NIA.
They have demonstrated capability to do this by preparation of the feasi-
bility study for Stage I irrigation. Consultant assistance would not
be needed and costs, mostly local currency, would be borne by Government.
Water supply for Stage II irrigation is dependent on upstream storage to
regulate flow of the Chico river and construction of Stage II facilities
would coincide with construction of the Chico 4 dam for hydroelectric power
scheduled for completion by 1985. With a four-year construction program,
preconstruction activities for Stage II irrigation should start early in
1980, which would require completion of the feasibility report by mid-1978.
In carrying out the feasibility study, special attention should be paid
to water requirements in the early months of the dry season crop and possible
adjustments in the cropping calendar in relation to canal capacities. NIA has
agreed that scheduling of the feasibility study would be coordinated with the
feasibility study of the Chico 4 dam and the availability of a regulated water
supply.
Cost Estimates
4.19      Total project costs are estimated at US$84.0 million, of which
US$33.0 million or 39% is foreign exchange. Project costs are based on
quantity estimates from feasibility designs and unit prices prevailing in
the Central Luzon projects in mid-1975. Unit prices for equipment, materials
and supplies are based on recent quotations received by NIA. Costs for de-
sign and construction supervision by NIA and DPH are included under engineer-
ing, while consultants' fees are included in the cost estimates for the ero-
sion control study and the input-output monitoring program. All costs were



- 13 -
indexed to a common level, mid-1976, and this is the base cost level for the
project. A physical contingency factor based on the degree of investigations
completed to date was applied. It amounts to: 20% for the irrigation and
drainage system and provincial road program; and 10% for the erosion control
study and input-output monitoring. Costs due to expected price increases over
the implementation period amount to about 26% of total project costs and
assume the following annual inflation rates:
Inflation Rate (%)
1976    1977-79   1980
Civil Works                     14        12        10
Equipment & Services            10         8         7
4.20      Details of project costs are presented in Annex 9 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-------(Pesos M)…---  -------(US$ M)-----           (%)
Irrigation              203.3   122.5   325.8   27.1   16.3        43.4      38
Provincial Road
Program               30.0    17.2    47.2    4.0    2.3          6.3     41
Erosion Control
Study                  5.4      6.2    11.6    0.8    0.8         1.6     55
Input-Ouput
Monitoring             5.0      1.8      6.8    0.7    0.2        0.9      27
Feasibility Study
Stage II Irriga-
tion                   0.7      0.3      1.0    0.1      -        0.1     30
0 & M Equipment           0.4     6.4      6.8      -     0.9       0.9      95
Base Cost Estimate  244.8   154.4   399.2   32.7   20.5          53.2      39
Physical
Contingencies         39.1    29.2    68.3    5.2    4.0          9.2      42
Expected Price
Increases             98.7    63.8   162.5   13.1    8.5         21.6     39
Total Project Cost    382.6   247.4   630.0   51.0   33.0          84X0      39
Financing
4X21      The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 33% of the local costs of the project.
It would cover 60% of total project costs. The Government would provide
the remaining P 255 million (US$34 million) out of annual budget appro-
priations to NIA and to DPH.   To ensure the continuous and timely flow of
funds, an assurance was obtained that the Government would cause NIA to



- 14 -
set up a special fund for the irrigation component of the project which would
be replenished by the Government at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to
the estimated requirements for the next two months. Establishment of the
special fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
Procurement
4.22      Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, operation
and maintenance, the erosion control study and the input-output monitoring
program (all under NIA), costing about US$3.3 million, would be procured
after international bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods, or the custom
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Local shopping is appropriate for off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$10,000 each because the advantages of international
competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by the administrative costs
involved. The total cost of such items would not exceed US$300,000. Bank
staff have reviewed the local procedures and they are acceptable. There is
adequate competition and foreign firms can participate. A detailed list of
equipment requirements is given in Annex 10.
4.23      The three roads to be improved under the provincial roads compo-
nent of the project would be advertised by DPH in one package (US$4.8
million), under international competitive bidding, with the option to bid
on one or all of the three roads.
4.24      Work on the Chico diversion dam and main diversion canal (US$19.1
million) would be advertised by NIA subject to international competitive
bidding. Works on the project service area would be scattered over five
separate areas and include rehabilitation of a 1,400 ha system and construc-
tion of new systems for 11,900 ha of rainfed rice lands and a large number of
individual communal and pump irrigation systems totaling some 6,400 ha. These
have to be planned and executed to avoid so far as possible the growing season
and bad weather. In the past NIA has experienced considerable difficulty in
attracting bids for such works. Several steps have been taken on Bank-assist-
ed projects to strengthen local contractors, including financing of recondi-
tioned equipment and providing higher mobilization allowances. Even with
these steps it is doubtful that all civil works could done by contract
and some of them would therefore have to be carried out on force account. NIA
is presently carrying out the ADB's portion of the Magat project by force
account and, together with force account work on other irrigation projects,
considerable construction capability has been built up. Nevertheless, in
light of NIA's large work program in the years ahead, it would not be desir-
able to expand its force account work too rapidly. Assurances were ob-
tained that NIA would investigate ways of expanding the execution of civil
works by contract, so that the amount of work done by force account would not
exceed 40% of the total cost of the work not subject to international compe-
titive bidding. Competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures is
appropriate for the balance of the work. Bank staff have reviewed the local
procedures and they are acceptable. There is potentially adequate competition
and foreign firms can participate.



- 15 -
Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured
locally. For costs of consultants and technical assistance disbursements
would be at the rate of 100% of the foreign exchange cost or 60% of total
cost. Disbursements for both irrigation and provincial roads civil works would
be 60% of certified monthly progress payments or expenditures. For civil
works contractors' mobilization and equipment, disbursements would be at 100%
of foreign exchange cost.
4.26      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documenta-
tion, contracts and certified records of payment or expenditure. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1981, approxi-
mately one year after the end of construction. Upon completion of the pro-
ject any undisbursed Bank funds would be cancelled. An estimated schedule
of expenditures, a semi-annual disbursement schedule and a proposed allocation
of loan proceeds are given in Annex 11.
Accounts and Audit
4.27      The NIA and DPH are Government agencies and their accounts are
audited annually by the Government's Commission on Audit. Assurances were
obtained that NIA and DPH would maintain separate accounts for their portions
of the project and that after audit by the Commission on Audit, the project
accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank
within four months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental  Effects
4.28      There  is no schistosomiasis in the project area or in Northern
Luzon generally. Malaria is effectively controlled by a Government program
of house spraying with residual insecticides. The few cases reported are
brought into the project area from the sparsely populated, mountainous
forest regions bordering the Cagayan Valley. The principal public health
problems in the area are protein deficiencies in preschool age children,
enteric diseases and tuberculosis. The proposed project would have little
direct impact on these.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      NIA would be responsible for all components of the project ex-
cept for the provincial road program which would be executed and maintained
by DPH (para 5.05). Because of its relatively small size and proximity
to the Magat project, the irrigation component would be executed and
operated by the Special Projects Organization of NIA as a division of the
Magat project (para 5.03).



- 16 -
5.02      NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.
The Government finances the NIA through the sale of bonds or from appropria-
tions. A Board of Directors is responsible for the agency, and the Admin-
istrator, who is appointed by the President of the Philippines, handles
management. NIA is in the process of being reorganized to meet the require-
ments of the Government's policy of accelerated irrigation development. The
integration of the major foreign-assisted projects under a Special Projects
Organization Office now headed by an Acting Assistant Administrator is one of
the first results of the reorganization. The Special Projects Organization
(Chart No. 9533) would also be responsible for execution and operation of the
Chico project. Because of the large and increasing Bank-assisted program and
the importance of the post, assurances were obtained that NIA would designate
a full-time Assistant Administrator to head the Special Projects Organization,
and that NIA would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment before
making any designation to the post before completion of the project. Desig-
nation of an Assistant Administrator for Special Projects would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loans.
5.03      Day-to-day responsibility for construction of the irrigation facil-
ities would rest with the Assistant Project Manager - Chico stationed in Tabuk
who would report to the Magat Project Manager (Chart 15356). NIA would
provide the additional support staff and facilities to allow him to carry
out his responsibilities. There would be two construction divisions: the
first located at Tabuk for building the Chico diversion dam, main diversion
canal and Talaca catch dam; and the second located at Quezon for building
the irrigation and drainage systems. NIA is in the process of selecting
an Assistant Project Manager - Chico and arrangements for his appointment
were confirmed during negotiations.
5.04      For 0 & M purposes the Chico irrigation project would comprise one
district under the Magat project with support provided by the three Magat
divisions dealing with administration, equipment and agricultural develop-
ment. The proposed Chico district would be divided into two zones, one
centered on Quezon and the other on Tabuk, each comprising about 10,000
ha. The zones would be divided into 50-ha irrigation units and a ditch
tender would supervise two such units (100 ha). A Water Management Techno-
logist (WMT) would control five ditch tenders (500 ha) while a Supervisor
would be responsible for a water management division and five WMT's (2,500
ha). (Annex 12).
5.05      DPH, through its Region II office, would be responsible for construc-
tion of the three provincial roads. It would prepare detailed designs and
final engineering specifications and tender documents, award contracts and
supervise construction. After construction the roads would be handed over to
the Provincial Engineer, Isabela, for maintenance. Both DPH Region II, and
the province have adequate staff and equipment to carry out this work.
5.06      The Special Projects Organization of NIA would be responsible for
the Erosion Control Study and for Input-Output Monitoring. A consulting firm
would assist NIA with the study which would be carried out by an Erosion
Control Study Section established within the Dam and Reservoir divisions of
UPRP and the Magat project. Consultants would assist NIA in setting up the
Input-Output Monitoring program which would be carried out by the Agriculture



- 17 -
Department of the Special Projects Organization. -The Project Development
Division of NIA would prepare the feasibility study for Stage II irrigation.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.07      An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was esta-
blished in the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) to coordinate the work of
the various agencies providing services to the farmers (Annex 13). The
arrangement appears to be working well in UPRP and a similar organization is
being established for the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project, the
Rural Development Project on Mindoro and the Magat project. As NIA would
operate the Chico project as part of the Magat project, the Chico project
should be included in the proposed Magat ADCC. While the Magat project falls
within a single province, Isabela, the Chico project is in the three provinces
of Cagayan, Isabela, and Kalinga-Apayao. To avoid having three ADCC's, and as
the three provinces was within the same administration region (Cagayan Val-
ley), an assurance was obtained that the Magat ADCC would be expanded to
regional level to include the Chico project area.
5.08      A total of 26 agricultural graduates from a number of Government
agencies provide extension services to farmers in the municipalities cover-
ing the project area. The Bureau of Agricultural Extension supplies the
majority. The ratio of extension workers to farmers is about 1:600. Under
the project the extension coverage would be strengthened by addition of the
water management staff (para 5.04) and there would be better coordination
through the ADCC (para 5.07).
5.09      Current fertilizer consumption in the project area amounts to
less than 1,600 tons per year, 70% of which is accounted for in approx-
imately equal proportions by sulphate of ammonia and ammonium phosphate.
At full development the project area would require some 8,400 tons of fer-
tilizer, on the basis of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha phosphate per crop
season. Existing supply channels would handle the increased demand without
difficulty. The certified rice seed requirement at full development would
total 740 tons per year and no problems are expected in obtaining the amount.
5.10      The substantial increase in the irrigation area, higher cropping
intensity and better farming practices resulting from the project would re-
quire a large increase in production credit. Under the agrarian reform and
Masagana programs the Government has strengthened the credit institutions
and eased credit to small farmers, previously dependent on the landlords for
their requirements. A system of "supervised credit" is used which includes
the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that recom-
mended practices, such as variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are
adopted. Under the system no collateral is required. During the 1974 wet
season, agricultural loans granted to farmers of the three provinces in
the project area by the Rural Banks and the Philippine National Bank



- 18 -
5.11      In the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects the UPRP's Agricul-
tural Development Division is responsible for monitoring the deployment of
extension and water management personnel, pace of land reform, cropping
patterns, use of inputs and credits, incidence of pests and diseases, etc.
For the Magat project assurances were obtained that NIA would establish
within six months of loan signature an Agricultural Development Division
similar to the one for UPRP. The Chico project, as a division of Magat,
would be provided the required support services.
Cost and Benefit Recovery
5.12      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
collect from users of irrigation systems, fees to finance operation of the
systems and to reimburse construction costs. Collection of fees and the
percentage rate of fees collected have been increased in the past few years.
However, the 66% collection rate in 1974 is still low. Irrigation fees on
the national irrigation systems have been recently raised to the equivalent
of two cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season and three cavans in the dry
season to be applied uniformly to all national irrigation systems. As an ex-
ception to the uniform rate policy, the Government has agreed to raise rates
on the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects and on the Magat project to the
equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet seasson and 4.4 cavans in
the dry season. These rates would be reached gradually over a period of five
years from completion of construction. Rates on the UPRP, where construction
is due to end in mid-1976, have already been raised to the equivalent of 2.5
cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 3.5 cavans in the dry season.
5.13      In view of the problems encountered in collecting water fees in
the past and the likelihood of greater difficulties in the future as a result
of the recent increase in fees, NIA should put emphasis on improved collection.
During the Magat project negotiations (Loan 1154-PH), NIA agreed to review the
rate of collections for all national systems to identify the factors affecting
collections. Because the Chico project would be operated as a division of the
Magat project, the proposed fees for the Chico project users would be the same
as those established for the other Magat divisions. Uniform fees for service
to Magat and Chico projects users is technically consistent as at full develop-
ment cropping intensities and farm incomes would be the same. For the Chico
project, the proposed fee charges would result in a cost recovery index of
29%, a benefit recovery index of 11% and a rent recovery index of around 20%.
Details are in Annex 18.
5.14      Because the level of fees charged for irrigation service is part
of a broader problem, and not project-specific to Chico, it would be re-
viewed with Government within the context of its overall fiscal and irrigation
sector policies. Assurances were obtained that the Government and the Bank
would consult annually on the adequacy of water charges and the collection
thereof.



- 19 -
5.15      To ensure sound operation and maintenance practices and an equitable
contribution by beneficiaries toward recovery of project capital costs,
assurances were obtained that:
(a) the NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for operation and maintenance of
the project;
(b) irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with suf-
ficient funds to maintain and operate the project and to
allow for the recovery of investment cost within a reasonable
period, taking into account farmers' incentives and capacity
to pay. A gradual increase in irrigation fees over a period
of five years from completion of construction to a level
equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season would meet the
requirement; and
(c) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to a more intensive crop-
ping pattern and higher yields. Upon completion, the irrigated area would
increase to 19,700 ha, of which at present 7,500 ha are irrigated and
12,200 ha are rainfed during the wet season. Although Stage I would not
provide storage for dry season irrigation water, diversion of unregulated
river flows would allow the present dry season irrigated area of 5,300 ha
to be expanded to 17,000 ha. Annual cropping intensity would increase from
127% to 186%. Better water control, improved extension services and expanded
credit facilities would encourage increased plantings of high yielding
rice varieties, heavier fertilizer applications, and greater use of crop
protection chemicals. The use of machinery for land preparation and
threshing would increase to meet more exacting crop calendars. At full
agricultural development in 1986, most farmers would thresh their crops
mechanically, and would use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn
implements for land preparation.
6.02      At full development, estimated paddy yields for the wet and dry
season crops would average 4.0 ton/ha per crop. The dry season yield reflects
some damage from occassional typhoons. Farmers would achieve these yield
levels five years after the introduction of water control. Future yields
without the project assume about a 1.6% annual average increase from 1976 to
1986. At full development, total paddy production from the Stage I project
area would be about 147,000 tons per year compared with 50,000 tons at present,
and an estimated 57,000 tons in the future without the project (Annex 14).



- 20 -
Market Prospects
6.03      A major Government objective in the agricultural sector is self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in
rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for the
Philippines, and in recent years annual rice imports have averaged around
300,000 tons. The 1975 Basic Economic Report projects the 1985 Philippine
demand for milled rice to be 5.0 million tons, equivalent to 8.5 million
tons paddy including seed requirements. To meet this demand, local production
would have to increase over the next decade by slightly more than 3.5% per
year and the incremental paddy production from the project area would be
marketed without difficulty. Traditionally, the project area has produced
paddy surplus to its requirements, and has exported this surplus throughout
the Cagayan Valley, to provinces in the Ilocos and northern Central Luzon
regions, and occasionally to the Manila and Southern Tagalog regions. With
the project, this pattern would continue, with buyers from Ilocos and northern
Central Luzon purchasing most of the additional production.
Prices
6.04      In 1957 the Government introduced an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and to allow purchases of paddy by
Government to build stocks. From 1965 to 1970 the support price was about
10% higher than the market price but since 1971 the market price has
generally exceeded the support price. In December, 1975 the official
farm gate support price for paddy was P 1,000/ton, which was considerably
lower than the corresponding price of imported rice (P 2,650/ton cif
Manila, which would correspond to a farm gate price for paddy of about
P 1,500/ton). The low farm gate price is maintained by Government sales of
imported rice on the domestic market below cost. In 1974 this subsidy cost
the Government about US$20 million. With the expected decline of rice prices
on the world market, it is reasonable to assume that the subsidy to consumers
would be eliminated and that farm gate prices would generally correspond to
world market prices. The Bank's latest price forecasts show the world market
price of Thai 25%-35% broken rice to fall to around US$240 per ton by 1985
(in terms of 1976 constant dollars). These projections were used to estimate
the present and future paddy farm gate prices for the farm budgets and the
economic analysis.
6.05          The Government subsidizes fertilizers used to grow food crops
for domestic consumption. For example, the November, 1975 price of urea
used for food crops was P 1,780 per ton (US$237) on the farm, while the
world market equivalent farm gate price was P 2,345 (US$313) per ton. Thus
the Government compensates farmers to some extent for the low domestic
price of rice. At full development the financial prices for paddy and urea
are assumed to coincide at the Bank's forecasted world market prices (at
mid-1976 constant prices). The corresponding farm gate prices would be
P 1,220 (US$162) per ton of paddy and P 1,900 (US$253) per ton of urea. The
use of a shadow exchange rate gives economic farm gate prices of P 1,350 and



- 21 -
P 2,100 per ton respectively (Annex 15). Under these price assumptions there
would be ample incentive for farmers to participate in the project.
Farm Incomes
6.06      Farm models have been prepared for two typical farm sizes, pre-
sently operating under three conditions. These two models would account
for 85% of the project's land area and nearly 95% of the farming population.
Annex 16 presents the estimated present incomes and those projected at full
development. Estimated and projected farm incomes (after payment of irri-
gation fees and before amortized land payments) are summarized as follows:
Farm     Existing          Cropping Intensity                Farm Income a/
Size     Farm Type         Present    Future      Present  Future  Present  Future
(ha)                       ------(%) --P)…-U ------(P)------  -----P(US$)-----
2.0  -  Rainfed              100        186        2,200   11,900      290    1,590
-  Pump Irrigated       150        186       4,000   11,900      530    1,590
-  Gravity Irrigated   186         186       5,700   11,900       760    1,590
4.0  -  Rainfed              100        186        3,800   22,000      510    2,930
-  Pump Irrigated       150        186       7,100   22,000      950    2,930
-  Gravity Irrigated   186         186      10,300   22,000   1,370    2,930
a/   Rounded to nearest P 100 and US$10.
6.07      Present net farm incomes vary from P 2,200 (US$290) on 2 ha rainfed
farms to P 10,300 (US$1,370) on 4.0 ha gravity irrigated farms.   At full
development, all farms would be gravity irrigated and are expected to have
identical cropping intensities. Net farm income would be P 11,900 (US$1,590)
on 2.0 ha, and P 22,000 (US$2,930) on 4.0 ha. Present rainfed farmers would
make the greatest relative gains, and present gravity irrigated farmers the
least.
6.08      Little information is available on off-farm income in the project
area, but observations and interviews in the field indicate that it is small
relative to returns from farm work. Although comparisons of farm incomes
based on farm budgets with income data based on national accounts aggregates
must be interpreted with caution, they do present a rough picture of the
relative position of project beneficiaries. With an estimated 5.5 persons
per family, present per capita farm income varies from P 400 (US$55) to P 1,870
(US$259), about 20%-80% of the 1976 per capita GNP of US$300. About 84% of
the project's farm families accounting for 75% of the area are presently at or
below the Bank's estimated absolute per capita poverty level of US$140 (ex-
pressed in mid-1976 constant price levels). At full project development in
1986, the projected per capita farm income would be be P 2,200 (US$290) for
a 2 ha farm and P 4,000 (US$535) for a 4.0 ha farm, or some 65-115% of the
1986 projected per capita GNP of US$465. These comparisons indicate that
the project would considerably narrow the income gap between the project
area and other parts of the country for the many small farmers (2 ha or



- 22 -
less), while for the larger farmers (4 ha or more) per capita farm income
would be slightly above the projected national average per capita GNP.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's irrigation component would directly benefit some
8,000 farm families and 2,000 landless laborer families, a total of 55,000
people. The proposed irrigation would increase yields and production
on 19,700 ha , by providing better water control, improved drainage and the
necessary agricultural supporting services. By considerably increasing dry
season irrigation from 5,300 ha at present to 17,000 at full project
development, it would also create a demand for an additional 1.17 million
man-days of farm labor per year, equivalent to some 4,700 full time additional
jobs. The road component would improve access links between the 75,000 ha
Stage I irrigation service area of the Magat project and existing national
highways. It would also provide an aternative road outlet for the southern
portion of the Chico project irrigation service area to the national highways
linking the Cagayan Valley to Manila.
7.02      The proposed road improvements would reduce transport costs of
farm inputs and outputs. Project area farmers and rice consumers in the
Cagayan Valley, northern Central Luzon and Ilocos regions would share the
benefits. Assuming a 15-year project life, the economic rate of return
is 20% for the Roxas - Gamu road, 18% for the Cabatuan - Cauayan road and
15% for the San Mateo - Alicia road.  The Government intends to improve
the Tuguegarao - Santiago National Highway via Quezon with an improved
crossing over the Magat river which is presently serviced by a ferry to
carry light vehicles only during the low river season. The Government has
appointed consultants to carry out feasibility studies of this national
highway and if the improvements are found feasible, there will be some diver-
sion of traffic from the Roxas - Gamu road and its economic rate of return will
decrease to 15%. (Annex 6)..
7.03      For the irrigation development, the full costs of the diversion
weir and the main canals, sized to serve both Stages I and II, were charged
to Stage I in the economic analysis. Assuming a 50-year project life, full
agricultural benefits being attained in 1986, farm gate prices for rice and
fertilizer based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985, a shadow
foreign exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.30, and a seasonably variable shadow
wage rate for unskilled labor, the economic rate of return would be 15%.
Details for the proposed project and for second phase development are in Annex
19.
7.04      The rate of return showed little sensitivity to the estimates
of project costs or assumptions made concerning the timing of agricultural
benefits or the opportunity cost of farm labor. It showed most sensitivity
to a reduction in the level of benefits, emphasizing the importance of
effective agricultural extension and the timely availability of adequate
farm inputs. In none of the cases tested, however, did the rate of



- 23 -
return fall below 12%. On the other hand, if the world market price
for rice turns out to be 25% higher than forecast, the rate of return
would be 19%. Similarly, if 50% of the diversion weir cost was allocated
to the proposed power project, the remaining weir costs shared between
Stages I and II on a service area basis and US$9.2 million of the main
canal, representing the cost of excess capacity)charged to Stage II, the
rate of return would be 21%.
7.05      At full agricultural development the project would result in
rice import savings of P 177.6 (US$23.7) million per year at the fore-
casted world market prices (para 6.04).   After deducting the incremental
cost of imported fertilizers, chemicals, fuel and other farm inputs, annual
net foreign exchange savings would amount to about US$20 million.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached
on the following principal points:
(a)  the necessary water rights would be granted to the NIA
and no private water rights which would adversely
affect the project's water supply would be granted
except by mutual agreement with the Bank (para 4.08);
(b)  the Government and the Bank would consult annually
on the adequacy of water charges and the collection
thereof (para 5.14); and
(c)  NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply the
funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project; would take all necessary action to ensure full
and prompt collection of irrigation fees; and would
gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of
five years from completion of construction to a level
equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season (para 5.15).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a)  establishment by NIA of a special fund for the
irrigation component of the project; the Government
has agreed to cause NIA to establish the fund which
would be replenished by the Government at monthly
intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated
requirements for the next two months (para 4.21); and
(b) the designation by NIA of a full-time Assistant
Administrator to head the Special Projects Organization;



- 24 -
NIA would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment before making any designation to the post
(para 5.02).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0
million, with a 25 year maturity including a grace period of six years. The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Cagayan Basin Development
General
1.        The Cagayan river basin in Northern Luzon is one of the largest
of the nine major basins in the Philippines. It covers some 28,000 km2
and is bounded on the north by the Babuyan Channel, on the south by the
Caraballo mountains, on the east by the Sierra Madre mountains and on
the west by the Cordillera Central range. The basin encompasses parts of
the provinces of Isabela, Cagayan, Mountain, Kalinga-Apayao, Ifugao,
Nueva Vizcaya, Quezon and Quirino. The Cagayan River traverses the entire
length of the valley, from its source near the Nueva Vizcaya - Quezon
boundary to its mouth on the Babuyan Channel. The two most important
tributaries are the Magat and Chico rivers. The Magat is located in the
south western part of the basin and the Chico in the north western portion.
The Magat is about 150 km long from its upper reaches in Nueva Vizcaya to
its confluence with the Cagayan in Isabela province. The Chico rises in
the Cordillera Central mountains, is about 140 km in length and joins the
Cagayan downstream of Alcala in Cagayan province. The estimated average
annual stream flow at the point of confluence for the Magat amounts to
5,680 Mm3 and for the Chico 6,930 Mm3, equivalent to 12% and 14% respectively
of the Cagayan basin run-off.
2.        Land is one of the major resources in the basin.  Of the total
area of 2.8 million ha about 1.0 million ha are cultivated, of which 40%
are in Isabela, 30% in Cagayan and the balance equally divided between
Nueva Vizcaya and Mountain provinces. The main problem confronting basin
agriculture is insufficient dependable water for year-round irrigation.
While rainfall may be deficient for short periods during the rainy season,
it is usually enough for wet season cropping, but is patchy, erratic and
inadequate in the dry season. In rainfed areas cropping is limited to the
wet season and the land is unproductive during the dry months. Even on the
46,000 ha of land served by national gravity irrigation systems in the
basin during the wet season, only about 30 to 40% are irrigated during the
dry season.
3.        Mean annual rainfall in the basin varies from 1,000 mm to 3,000
mM. The four-month period, January through April, is dry and accounts for
less than 9% of annual rainfall, while some 75% of the precipitation
occurs during July through December. The estimated annual runoff in the
basin amounts to 49,000 Mm3.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Magat River Development
4.        The Government recognized the importance of irrigation in the
basin and began developing national gravity irrigation projects in the
mid-1950's. The first stage of the Magat River Irrigation System (MARIS)
was completed in 1957 and the Siffu River Irrigation System (SIFRIS)
in 1960. The MARIS was further extended in 1966. In the same year a
Water Resources Survey Team from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR)
submitted a report on the potentials of the Cagayan basin in terms of land
and water resources. The report concluded that both the Magat and Chico
sub-basins appeared to have good potential for water resource exploitation
and should be given priority for development.
5.        As a result of the Basin Report recommendations the Government
engaged consultants to prepare a provisional planning report on the Magat
river project. The report, submitted in 1967, proposed building a rockfill
dam on the Magat river to provide storage for year-round irrigation of
75,000 ha of land as well as generation of 100 MW of hydroelectric power.
In 1973 the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) with assistance
from the USBR completed a feasibility survey of the Magat project. The
survey concluded that development of a multipurpose project on the Magat
river was technically feasible and economically viable. The project
was envisaged to provide storage by building a high dam on the river to
allow year-round irrigation of 104,000 ha and installation of a hydro-
electric plant with a capacity of 300 MW.
6.        Because of the physical size, large estimated cost and long
construction period NIA proposes a 10-year implementation schedule (1975-
1986) for the Magat project, divided into two stages. Stage I consists of
the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and construction of new
facilities for a total of 75,000 ha that can be served by run-of-the river
diversion in the wet season. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is assisting
NIA to rehabilitate 40,000 ha of Stage I under the Angat-Magat Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP). The remaining 35,000 ha of
Stage I are being developed with Bank assistance under Loan 1154-PH. Stage
II would include construction of additional irrigation facilities to
increase the command area to 104,000 ha and construction of the storage
dam, power station and the provision and installation of generating and
transmission facilities.
Chico River Development
7.        The National Power Corporation (NPC) completed a technical
prefeasibility study of the hydro-electric development potential of the
Chico sub-basin in 1973. The study proposed construction of a series of
four storage dams with a total installed capacity of 1000 MW and a total
average annual energy production of about 2,000 Gwh. NPC, with consultant
assistance, began a feasibility grade study on the Chico 2 damsite, but had
to stop work due to opposition of the people in the proposed reservoir
site. The focus of the study has been shifted to the Chico 4 site where



ANNEX 1
Page 3
problems of r_servoir resettlement are expected to be less difficult
because only about 75 families are involved. Resettlement would be carried
out after suitable sites have been selected in consultation with tribal
representatives and before commencing construction of the dam.
8.        An NIA study of the feasibility of irrigation development from
the Chico river completed in 1975 concluded that year-round irrigation
of at least 40,000 ha of rice land would be technically feasible and
economically viable. Further analysis at appraisal indicates that with
the additional storage provided at the Chico 4 site, irrigation could
be expanded to about 49,000 ha with sufficient water to irrigate about
45,000 ha during the dry season.
Phasing of the Project
9.        Because of the need to coordinate the full development of the
irrigation potential with the development of hydro-power and storage on
the river it is proposed to implement the Chico River Irrigation Project in
two stages. The first stage would be limited to 19,700 ha that could be
served by run-of-the river diversion in the wet season. The second stage
would provide service to an additional 29,300 ha in the wet season for a
total of 49,000 ha. The second stage would be dependent on the provision
of storage on the river through the construction of the proposed Chico 4
hydro-dam. A feasibility study for the dam is to be prepared by NPC with
consultant assistance.
10.       Stage I would consist of the construction of a diversion dam
on the Chico River, the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 7,800 ha
of existing irrigation systems and their expansion by a further 11,900 ha.
The diversion dam would be designed to function as an afterbay regulator
for the storage dam of Stage II. Construction of Stage I would take
five years (1976-1980). At completion irrigation would be available to
19,700 ha of rice in the wet season and 17,000 ha in the dry season for a
cropping intensity of 186%.
11.       Stage II would take five years (1980-1984) for implementation
and would consist of construction of irrigation facilities to service
an additional 29,300 ha. The timing of Stage II would be dependent on
the construction of the Chico 4 storage dam scheduled to be completed over
the 1979-1984 period. Construction of Stage II irrigation facilities
would overlap Stage I construction by one year and be completed in 1984,
at completion of Chico 4 storage dam. Such phasing would permit the
earliest possible introduction of 190% cropping intensity to the entire
49,000 ha of the combined Stages I & II of the irrigation project.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Mlimatological Data
Tuguegarao, Cagayan              Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr  M       Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec         Total
Rainfall 1/
Average   (mi)                 29    22    37    62   141   161   235   207   217   238   284   131          1,764
Maximum   (mm)                121   108   214   250   408   373   590   513   750   681 1,316   375          3,516
Minimum   (mm)                  0     0     0     0    34    39    47    28    19    10    12        0         968
Number of rainy days  2/          10     7     7     7    12    17    17    18    17    17    18    15            162
Relative humidity (%)  3/         80    76    72    68    70    75    77    79    81    82    84    84
Temperature 4/
Mean (OC)                    23.8  24.6  26.6  27.6  29.3  29.1  28.5  28.1  27.7  27.3  25.4  24.1
Mean Maximum (OC)            29.2  31.2  33.4  35.7  36.5  35.7  34.8  33.2  33.6  31.9  30.1  28.9
Mean Minimum (OC)            19.3  19.6  21.0  22.7  23.7  24.1  23.6  22.9  23.5  22.6  21.6  20.4
Evaporation (mm)  5/             148   155   207   233   232   191   180   168   167   163   134   137          2,115
Prevailing wind directian 6/    NNW   NNW      N     N      s     S     S     S   NNW      N   NNW     N
Wind velocity (km/hr)6/            4     3     3     3      3     3     3     3      3     4     3     4
Number of typhoons   7/            0     o     0     2      2     5    14    13    18    10    11      3           78
(Cagayan Valley & Ilocos)
1/  Period of observatian 1903-1939, 1947-1973
/           itt"    "      1949-1973
5/i"   "   it      1949-1973
4/     "    "     "1903-1939, 1947-1972
II tt  tt    n     1957-1968
'61    "    "             1958-1970
7/    "I   "      "       1948-1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        Since 1972, the Government has pursued an agrarian reform
program aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on
rice and corn lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic
legislation of the new program, provides for the transfer to the tenant,
whether sharecropper or leaseholder, of the land he tills up to a total
of 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. The landlord
is allowed to retain up to 7 ha providing he cultivates the land himself.
The Decree lays down a system of valuing the land and provides for the
tenant to pay for it in 15 equal annual installments at an interest rate
of 6% per annum.
2.        It is estimated that the total number of rice and corn tenants
is about 1.0 million on some 1.5 million ha owned by about 430,000 land-
lords. Some 85% of these landlords have holdings of less than 7 ha.
In addition, the total number of rice and corn farmers probably exceeds
2 million, while the total area of rice and corn lands is not much more
than 4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated. There
is, therefore, little prospect of achieving the objective of 5 ha rainfed
or 3 ha irrigated family farms nationwide.
3e A recent survey by the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR)
reports that 55% of the tenants on 45% of the tenanted area are under
landlords with holdings smaller than 7 ha. The Government is anxious not
to antagonize the small landowners, and is looking for a solution equit-
able to both tenants and landlords. For holdings under 7 ha the Government
has announced its intention to enforce leasehold with security of tenure.
TC) prevent abuses pending the issue of rules and regulations under the
various decrees, the Government has forbidden evictions, and has declared
sharecropping illegal.  DAR is proceeding with the transfer of land in
holdings over 24 ha, and by December 1975, had issued land transfer certifi-
cates to 208,000 tenants covering 366,000 ha in 64 provinces but valuation
and payment has been slow. DAR reports that landlords and tenants have
submitted to the DAR valuations of 50,000 ha, involving 930 landlords and
37,200 tenants in 36 provinces. The Land Bank has paid compensation to 590
landlords for 25,700 ha, involving 16,400 former tenants.
4.        In November 1974 the Government decided to proceed with the
t-ransfer oE land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. This work began in
January 1975 and is targeted to be finished by the end of 1977.  To



ANNEX 3
Page 2
expedite land transfer and resolve land valuation disputes, barrio (hamlet)
land valuation committees began functioning in April, 1975. The committees
consist of the barrio captain, four tenant farmers, two owner cultivators,
two landowners, a representative from the DAR and one from the samahang
nayon (pre-cooperative organization).
Situation in the Project Area
5.        DAR has identified all corn and rice holdings subject to land
reform in the three project area provinces of Isabela, Cagayan and Kalinga-
Apayao. As of October 1975 land transfer certificates were issued to
some 18,400 tenants on about 34,000 ha out of a total of about 32,000
tenants on holdings over 7 ha. There are about 46,000 tenants on holdings
below 7 ha.
6.        According to DAR and NIA data, an estimated 4,880 people own
the 19,700 ha in the Stage I project area. Some 95% of the owners have
properties of less than 7 ha, and account for 70% of the area. The remain-
ing 5% of holdings larger than 7 ha, the existing operational limit for
land transfer, comprise 30% of the area (5,850 ha), which will be transfer-
red to the former tenants. The land ownership pattern in the project area
by size of holding in January 1975 was as follows:
Size of Holding             Owners            Area Owned
(ha)                No.        %        ha.         %
Less than 3              3,290       67      6,886       35
3 -  7             1,380       28       6,966       35
7 - 12               151        3       1,560        8
12 - 24                37        1         515        3 w
24 - 50                13)                 343        2
50 -100                 5)       1         343        2
More than 100                4)      _       3,087       15
Total              4,880      100      19,700      100
7.        The average project farm unit is 2.5 ha.  Most farms (84%)
are between 1 and 5 ha, and cover 83% of the project area. The farm
size distribution is as follows:
Farm Size                  Farm            Cultivated Area
(ha)                 No.         %       ha.          %
Less than 1               841       11        440        2
1 - 3            5,471       68     10,737       55
3 - 5            1,318       16       5,583       28
5 - 7              328        4       2,165       11
More than 7                92        1        775        4
Total             8,050      100      19,700      100



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.         There are substantial differences in mean farm size and farm
size distribution between some of the five sections of the proposed project.
The mean farm size varies from a low of 1.1 ha in Chico West to a high
of 3.3 in Quezon-Mallig. Farm size distribution in the five sections is
as follows:
Section:    Chico West   Tuga-Gobgob   Tabuk   Agbannawag   Quezon-Mallig
Area (ha):     2,000           1,250       3,400      2,950          10,100
No. Farms:     1,820             520       1,420      1,230           3,060
Farm Size:  Farms  Area  Farms  Area  Farms  Area  Farms  Area  Farms   Area
(ha)     -------------------------%
Less
than  1      42      22     1)             2)            1)             1)
1 - 3      57     71    88)   77    81)  66           88)   77    57)    38
3 - 5 )    1        4     7      13    14    27        7      13    32       40
5  - 7             3      4      10      2     5       4      10      7      15
More
than  7      -      -      -       -       1     2      -       -       3        7
Total      100    100   100    100   100    100   100    100   100           100
Mean Farm Size:
(ha)      1.1            2.4           2.4            2.4           3.3
The Chico West section with a long history of irrigation is characterized
by small farms and little variation from the mean.  Until recently the
Quezon-Mallig section had relatively little irrigated land and still
shows traces of a land settlement initiated before World War II, when the
land was divided into 10 ha holdings.
9.         In January, 1975, the project area tenure situation was as
follows:
Tenure                Farmers             Area
No.         %       ha          %
Owner-Operator        3,945        49      11,229      57
Leaseholder           2,898        36       6,698      34
Sharecropper          1,207        15       1,773       9
Total               8,050       100      19,700    100
The proportion of owner-operators was high, being 20% greater than in the
neighboring Magat project and between two and three times higher than in the
Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects. The highest proportion of owner-
operators (56%) was in the Chico West section, the lowest (12%) was in
the Agbannawag section, while there was little difference between the
other three sections. Tenants accounted for 51% of the farmers, but only



ANNEX 3
Page 4
some 30% of these were sharecroppers, compared to 90% in Magat. In
the Quezon-Mallig section sharecroppers accounted for only 7% of the
tenant farmers. The average owner-opertor unit was some 2.9 ha compared
to an average tenant unit of 2.1 ha.
10.       The mean farm size in the project area is smaller than in the
Magat project, but larger than in Central Luzon projects, where the range
is from 1.5 to 2 ha. Central Luzon is more intensively developed than
the relatively newly settled areas of Cagayan Valley. Population density
in the valley is among the lowest in the Philippines despite considerable
internal migration during the last decade. Development of the Magat
and Chico projects is expected to attract more people to the area and the
farm size will probably decrease as irrigation increases productivity.
11.       The transfer by DAR of landlord holdings larger than 7 ha would
involve an estimated 5,850 ha and 2,800 tenants. The transfer would
result in some 17,100 ha or 87% of the project area being cultivated
by around 6,800 owner-operators, the equivalent of 85% of the farmers.
The 1,300 tenant farmers on holdings of less than 7 ha would operate under
a leasehold contract.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Project Irrigation Works
1.        Stage I would provide irrigation service to 19,700 ha of rice
land and diversion and main canal capacity for expansion under Stage II
development to irrigate a total of 49,000 ha. Stage I would divert
unregulated flows of the Chico River while Stage II development would
depend on construction of a storage dam on the Chico River to firm up
wet season water supply and augment dry season flows of the river.
Stage I project works would consist of:
(a) Construction of a diversion dam and intake on the
Chico river;
(b) Construction of a catch dam and intake on Talaca
creek;
(c) Rehabilitation and extension of an existing 1,400 ha
NIA irrigation system and construction of drainage
facilities;
(d) Construction of new irrigation and drainage facilities
for 3,200 ha of communal irrigation systems and a
further 3,200 ha of privately-owned pump irrigation
systems scattered over the project area; and
(e) Construction of new irrigation and drainage facilities
for 11,900 ha of currently rainfed rice lands.
Chico Diversion Dam
2.        The Chico diversion dam would consist of a concrete over-
flow section having a crest length of 480 m and an earth and rockfill
section with a 300 m crest length. The maximum height of the dam above
streambed would be about 12.0 m. The dam would function as a diversion
structure and also as an afterbay regulator when upstream storage and power
generating facilities are constructed. The water requirements of the
downstream Chico West system (2,000 ha) would be released through the
dam's sluiceway, which would be equipped with two 5.5 m x 5.0 m radial
gates. Water for other areas would be diverted through a three-bay,
reinforced concrete canal intake structure equipped with three 4.5 m x 3.0
m radial gates. These gates would limit water diversions to about 29.6 m3/sec



ANNEX 4
Page 2
for the principal Stage I area of 17,700 ha. After service is extended
by 29,300 ha in Stage II development, water diversions through the canal
intake would be increased to its design capacity of 76.9 m3/sec. The
dam would impound about 6.3 M m3, allowing it to re-regulate the daily water
releases for peak power generation from the proposed hydroelectric power
plant at the Chico 4 damsite.
Main Diversion Canal and Diversion Canal No. 1
3.        The Main Diversion Canal, 25 km long, would start at the Chico
diversion dam intake on the left bank, cross the Chico river in a siphon
at about station 3.5 km and empty into Talaca creek, which would convey
project irrigation water about 4 km to Talaca catch dam. Bed rock is exposed
over this entire 4 km length of Talaca creek and no particular problems are
anticipated in carrying project irrigation water. The Tuga Gobgob (1,250 ha),
Tabuk (3,400 ha) and Agbannawag (2,950 ha) Stage I areas would be served by
primary canals taking off from the Main Diversion Canal. Diversion Canal No.
1 (at about 11 km on the Main Diversion Canal) would serve 1,000 ha of the
Tabuk area in Stage I and a further 9,000 ha area under Stage II development.
Both the Main Diversion Canal (capacity 76.9 m3/sec) and Diversion Canal No. 1
(capacity 16.7 m3/sec) would be oversized to serve Stage II lands. For Stage
I lands only, the initial capacities would need to be 29.6 and 1.8 m3/sec,
respectively.
4.        For much of the upper reach the Main Diversion Canal traverses
rather rough terrain with numerous small streams and ridges requiring cuts
and fill, some in excess of 10 m. Canal sections on fills higher than
10 m would be concrete lined. Other than these short lengths, all canals
would be unlined. Detailed engineering prior to construction may determine
that some of the high fills should be eliminated by siphons and the basic
cost estimate for the Main Diversion Canal was increased by 10% to cover
this possibility.
Talaca Catch Dam
5.        Water discharged into Talaca creek from the Main Diversion Canal
would be impounded by the Talaca catch dam and diverted to the Quezon-
Mallig area of Stage I through a reinforced concrete canal intake structure
located on the left bank. The intake structure would also serve Stage II
lands at a later date. The catch dam would be of the concrete overflow
type with a crest length of 60 m and a maximum height above streambed of
about 14.0 m.  The dam's sluiceway would be equipped with two 2.5 m x 2.5 m
radial gates. Water diversions through the canal intake would be regulated
by three 2.95 m x 3.54 m radial gates.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Service Area
6.        The layout of the irrigation system and principal works are
shown on Map 11944R. The 19,700 ha Stage I comprises the following:
Area                      Hectares
Chico West
Rehabilitation                1,400
Extension                       600
Sub-total                2,000
Tuga Gobgob                       1,250
Tabuk                             3,400
Agbannawag                        2,950
Quezon-Mallig                   10,100
Total                    19,700
Table 1 summarizes the principal project works and the density of on-farm
facilities is in Table 4. Aside from the existing Chico West system
which would be upgraded and provided a drainage system through rehabilita-
tion, all lands would require new systms, even though some 6,400 ha are
presently served in some manner by small communal systems and pump systems.
Additional details and location of these small systems are at Annex 14.
The communal systems are small, scattered, inadequately developed and,
other than those diverting from the Chico river, are chronically short
of water. The pump systems generally involve only a few hectares each
and are only partially developed and inadequately served. Part of the
pump lands are served from shallow wells and part from small streams
which, in the dry season, carry very little water. In addition to the
shortage of water for pump lands, diesel fuel is increasingly more costly
and pumping costs are particularly high during the dry season when water
requirements are greater.
7.        General features of the irrigation systems would include canal
structures, such as checks, control structures and turnouts to provide
water efficiently to each field as needed. Constant head orifice turnouts
would be provided to each rotational area of about 50 ha. Turnouts would
be provided to each 10-ha unit from which farm ditches constructed by the
project would distribute water to most farmers. Farm drains would convey
excess water from each 10-ha unit to main outlet drains. A few farmers
would receive water through their neighbors' fields. Canals would be
unlined. Working stations for Water Management Technologists (WMT) would
be provided for each 500 ha of irrigated land as well as concrete drying
floors.
9.        Gravel surfaced operation and maintenance (O&M) roads would be
constructed on the canal banks according to the following criteria:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
for canals with a design capacity greater than 5.0 m3/sec, roadways 5 m
wide would be provided on both banks; for canals with capacities between
2.0 and 5.0 m3/sec, a 3.5 m wide road would be provided on one bank; and
no roadway would be provided along waterways with capacities less than
2.0 m3/sec. These roads would also serve as farm-to-market access roads.
Some existing roads in the project area would be improved by widening and
gravel surfacing to connect O&M roads to the main road system. The surfacing
of new and upgraded roads would be 20 cm thick for 5.0 m roadways and 15 cm
thick for 3.5 m roadways.
9.        The proposed level of on-farm water distribution and drainage
is similar to that being implemented on the Magat project (Table 4) and
would be a substantial improvement over existing systems in the general
area. Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the land
is reasonably level and well laid out with little fragmentation of land
holdings. Therefore, no land levelling, boundary realignment or land
consolidation would be provided at this stage. The NIA has built a. 1,000-ha
pilot scheme on the Upper Pampanga River Project to test the feasibility,
costs and local acceptability of full on-farm development, including land
consolidation, land levelling and individual farm access to irrigation and
drainage. The pilot scheme will determine the effects of full on-farm
development on yields, ease of operations and efficiency of water use and
the findings would be applicable to the proposed project.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRPIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Summary of Irrigation Facilities to be Provided or Rehabilitated
Chico West RIS Rehabilitation (1,400 ha)
Main Canal (km)
Rehabilitation                                 7
Enlargement                                    0
Laterals (kmi)
Rehabilitation                                34
Enlargement                                    0
Drains (kn)                                        27
Farm Ditches (kin)                                 88
Farm Drains (kn)                                   53
0 & M Roads w/ Project (km)                        26
New Irrigation Area (18,300 ha)
Canals and Laterals (km)
1.  Canals
a)  Main Diversion Canal                  25
b)  Tuga-Gobgob Canal                     13
c)  Diversion Canal No. 1                  5
d)  Agbannawag Canal                      11
e)  Quezon-Mallig West Canal.             14
f)  Quezon-121allig East Canal            12
2.  Laterals (kir)                           315
Drains (kmn)                                      329
Farm Ditches (km)                               1,080
Farm Drains (km)                                  732
O & M Roads (km.)                                 395
Total Area (19,700 ha)



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGS I
Irrigation Facilities Cost
I.  REHABILITATION AREA (1,400 ha)                        US$/ha2I
(a)  Canal System                                      115
(b)  Drainage System                                   144
(c)  Road System                                        77
(d)  On Farm Distribution and Drainage                 210
Sub-total                                    546
II. NEW IRRIGATION (18,300 ha)
3'
(a)  Canal System                                    1,000
(b)  Drainage System                                   145
(c)  Road System                                        15
(d)  On Farm Distribution and Drainage                 210
Sub-total                                  1,530
TOTAL                                      1,480
1/ Not including contingencies (20%) and engineering, supervisicn
and acministration (10%).
2/ Includes Water Management Technologist statio ns.
2/  Includes main canal capacity for Stage II development.



A N NEMX 4)
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Length of New Canals Required in Stages I and II
Name of Canal                    Stage I        Stage II      Total
---- - ---------- 7   ------------
Main Diversion Canal                       25                         25
Tuga-Gobgob Canal                         13                          13
Diversion Canal No. 1                       5            -5
Agbannawag Canal                           11                         11
Quezon-Miallig West Canal                  14            -            1
Quezon-Mallig East Canal                   12             -           12
Diversion Canal No. 2                      -             20           20
Liwan-Gadu West Canal                      -              26          26
Liwan-Gadu East Canal                      -              26          26
Magsaysay Canal                            -              32          32
Enrile Canal                               -             13           13
Chico East-East Canal                      -             26           26
Chico East-W-fest Canal                                  17           17
TOTAL             80           160          240



MNEX 4
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Density of Terminal On-Farm Facilities on IBRD ProJects
On-Farm Facility           0 & M
Project              Irrigation       Drainage      Roads
-______(m/ha)
UlPRP                    57             12            13
Tarlac                  h5              4             13
M4agat                   60             40            15
Chico                    59             40            18



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The project would derive its supply from the unregulated flow
of the Chico river at the diversion dam site, where the catchment area is
approximately 1,930 km2. The average annual rainfall over the catchment
is about 2,780 mm while the average annual runoff is 1,480 mm, or appro-
ximately 2,860 Mm3. The annual runoff expected to be exceeded in 4 out
of 5 years would be about 1,540 Mm3. There is presently no regulatory
storage on the catchment and none would be available until the first of
four proposed hydropower storage dams is constructed upstream of the
project.
2.        The water supply of the Chico river at the diversion dam site
was correlated by drainage area proportion with the recorded discharge at a
station upstream of the diversion site about mid-way in the catchment, as
that record is considered the most reliable of the records at several
measuring points after a rather comprehensive analysis by both NIA and NPC.
A separate analysis of stream flow at the downstream station nearest the
diversion site, and its extension over a 20-year period, gave essentially
the same results for the low flow months, which are critical to project
water supply without storage.
Water Demand
3.        Although some corn and cassava are grown in the project area,
rice would continue to be the major crop and more land would be planted to
paddy in the dry season when irrigation water is available. It was considered
that transplanted paddy of the 120-day, non-photosensitive varieties would
be the main crop in both the wet and dry seasons. Water requirements were
based on the following cropping calendar:
Dates
Operation               Wet Season        Dry Season
Land Preparation
& Nursery           July 15-Nov. 15   March 1-June 1
Transplanting           Sept 15-Nov. 15   April I-June 1
Harvesting              Dec. 15-Feb. 15   July I-Sept. 1



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Land preparation and nursery were estimated to take 30 days.  Water
requirements for soil saturation and replacement of water lost through
evaporation and deep percolation during this period were determined to be
310 mm in the wet season and 335 mm in the dry season. Flooding immediately
after transplanting was estimated to be 20 mm followed by another application
of 50 mm about two weeks later. Subsequent water applications to compensate
for evapotranspiration and deep percolation losses were based on a percolation
loss of 2.0 mm/day and evapotranspiration rates estimated to be equal
to the average Class A pan evaporation rates recorded at Tuguegarao,
Cagayan between 1957 and 1972. The effective rainfall was determined from
observed daily rainfall at Tuguegarao allowing the pondage in the field to
fluctuate with the growth of crops to a maximum depth of 50 mm in the first
month and 150 mm in the succeeding months.
5.        The overall irrigation efficiency at full development was esti-
mated to be 43% in the wet season and 50% in the dry season.  This is based
on farm irrigation losses of 40% in the wet season and 30% in the dry
season, conveyance losses of 20% and system operation losses of 10%.
Monthly water requirements and supply expected to be exceeded in 4 out of 5
years are presented in Table 1. Seasonal and total annual diversion
requirements are developed in Table 2.
6.        The area that could be irrigated in Stage I in both the wet and
dry seasons was determined from estimated unregulated river flow at the
diversion dam and the estimated water requirements for paddy. Return
flow from about 7,600 ha of Stage I irrigated lands would accrue to the
river above the Chico West diversion site and was calculated in the available
water supply in exceptionally dry years when natural flow of the river would
be low. The water supply analysis shows that the Stage I system could serve
19,700 ha in the wet season and 17,000 ha in the dry season. A shortage of
19% could be expected in one out of five years during one month of land
preparation or the early stage of dry season crop growth. In all other
years there would be no water shortages and in fact during the wet season the
water supply would be sufficient for a somewhat larger area.
Water Quality
7.        Tests of water samples from the Chico river indicate good water
quality with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. The waters are of low
salinity, only slightly alkaline and free of toxic elements. The water
is turbid during the wet season but no adverse effects have been noted on
soils or crops irrigated with this water for nearly 20 years.



ANNE 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Water Requirement and Supply
Jan     Feb     Mar    Apr    May       June     July     Aug     Sept     Oct    Nov       Dec
LP' +   N
Wet Season Paddy (19,700 ha)T
Dry Season Paddy (17,000 ha)                             N
1/
Rainfall, Tuguegarao (mm)        18      14      23    39       88      100      146      129      136     148      177      82
Water Requirement
Land Prep & Nursery (mm)                      115    110     110                 50    loC       100      60
Flooding for Cultivation (mm)                         30      30       10                         30      30       10
Evapotranspiration (mm)        37                     58    172       174       90      17        18      84      131     106
Deep Percolation (mm)          30                     15      45       60       45       15        6      30       60      54
Field Requirement              67       0     115    213     357      241i     185      132      154     204      201    160
Effective Rainfall (mm)        18       0      23    39       79       90      117     103       109     118      142'    74
Farm Requirement (mm)          459      0      92    174     278      154       68       29       4       86       59     5s
Overall Efficiency (%)         43       0      50     50      50       50        48      45       43     4L3       43      43
Diversion Requirement (mm)    114       0     184    348     556      308      142       65     105      200      137     200
Cropped Area ('000 ha)
Wet-Season                    -4                                                                19,700 ha
Dry Season                                  4-            17,000 ha
Diversion Requirement (Emr)    22.5     0   31.3   59.2   94.5    58.8    25.3   12.4   20.7    39.4             33.4    39.4
3
Water Supply (Mm)
Average Year -2                87.0  56.0   56.4   60.2  157.6   230.5  423.0  397.0   377.0   428.0   194.0   124.0
Critical Year                  64.0  40.5  44.5   42.5  102.0   166.0  185.0  205.0  207.0   205.0   115.0   79.0
Usable Return FlowL             1.1    0      2.5    5.4       8.0      4.0    1.3      0.2     1.2      3.6      1.8     2.4
Total Critical Year Supply     65.1  40.5  47.0   47.9  110.0   170.0  186.3  285.2   208.2   208.6   116.8   81.4
1   Annual rainfall at Tuguegarao exceeded in 4 out of 5 years (1903-1973).
2 Monthly flows with 50% probability of occurrence (once in two years).
J Monthly flows with 80% probability of occurrence (four out of five years).
/ From 7,600 ha above Chico West system.
/ 19% shortage one year out of five.
LP = Land Preparation, J = Nursery, T- = Transplanting, M = Management, H = Harvest



ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Project Wi-Jater Requirements
(n)
Land Preparation                           Wet Season      Annual      Dry Season
Saturation                                    75                           50
Evaporation                                  175                          225
Percolation                                   60                           60
Sub-total                               310            6h5           335
Flooding for Cultivation                         70           140             70
Crop Water Requirenents
Evapotranspiration                           376            887           511
Deep Percolation                             180            360           18r
Sub-total                               556          l,247           69i
Total Field Water Recuirement                  936          2,032         1,096
Less Effective Rainfall                          0             912
Net Farm Irrigation Requirement                 366         1,120           7511
Farm Irrigation Efficiency (%)                  60                           ,0
Farm Irrigation Requirement (Turnout)          6lo          1 ,68,        1 ,07'
Conveyance Efficiency (%)                       80                           80
Diversion Requirement (Main Canal)              763         2,109 1.Q,3L6
System Operation Efficiency (%)                  90                          90
Diversion Requirement (Headworks)              851          2.359         1,508
Overall Irrigation Efficiency (%)               43             47            50



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Provincial Road Program
Background
1.        The roads proposed for construction and improvement under the
project are located in Isabela province in the Cagayan Valley. The valley
is served by the Magat and Cagayan rivers to its South and East and the
Chico river to its North. The potential for agricultural development in
the valley is large and the Government plans to invest heavily to achieve
this.
2.        The Magat River Multipurpose Project:  Stage I (Loan 1154-PH)
includes the upgrading and construction of about 830 km of low standard
roads located on irrigation canal banks and intended primarily for access
to the canals for purposes of operation and maintenance. The improvement
of Cagayan Valley arterial roads that link the Magat project area to the
marketing centers in Central Luzon was deferred for consideration under a
later project to enable preparation work to be completed. The road component
of the Chico project consists of three of these roads.
3.        The project roads, totalling about 65 km of provincial roads are a
part of 260 km of one national highway and several provincial roads in the
Cagayan Valley recommended for improvement by a mission that visited
the Philippines in December, 1974 under the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
The Tuguegarao-Quezon-Santiago National Highway (130 km) was omitted from
present consideration because of the need for in-depth feasibility studies
and detailed engineering by consultants. Roads serving other areas were
also excluded as they were found to be not feasible for development at the
present time.
Description
4.        The road component, which is described in detail in Appendix A,
would comprise:
(a) the construction and improvement of the following pro-
vincial roads (Map 11944R):
(i)     Roxas - Gamu Road         -      35.2 km
(ii)     Cabatuan - Cauayan Road-         11.0 km
(iii)     San Mateo - Alicia Road  -       18.9 km
Total           65.1 km



ANNEX 6
Page 2
and
(b) the detailed engineering and construction supervision of
roads in (a).
Cost Estimates
5.        The total cost of the road program including physical contingen-
cies (20%) and right-of-way costs (US$0.8 million) is estimated to be about
US$7.4 million of which US$2.8 million would be foreign exchange. This cost
amounts to about US$100,000 per km including engineering and supervision
costs. Details of the cost estimates are given in Annex 9, Table 5.
Preparation
6.        The Provincial Governments are responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of provincial roads. The Department of
Public Highways (DPH), which is a Central Government agency, provides
technical assistance through its Regional Offices as required by the
Provincial Governments. Where local staff and facilities are inadequate,
DPH undertakes the construction and rehabilitation of provincial roads
that have been identified as having high priority.
7.        The road component of the project was prepared by Region II,
DPH. Preparation consisted of economic and technical feasibility studies
including sufficient preliminary engineering to produce cost estimates
to within + 20%. The Director of the DPH Planning Services and his staff
assisted in the conduct of the studies and generally supervised the work.
The studies were carried out in accordance with guidelines given by a
Bank preparatory mission in May, 1975.
8.       Detailed engineering and preparation of contract documents would
be carried out by Region II, DPH which would establish a Special Projects
Office for this purpose. The proposed design standards are shown in Table
1. They follow the standards adopted by DPH after two UNDP-financed studies:
Transport Survey (1968-70) by consultants, Metra/Sauti (France/Italy) and Road
Feasibility Studies I (1971-72) by consultants, Norconsult (Norway). The
roads would be built to Class 2 standards with a 6.10 m pavement width (2
lanes) and double bituminous surface dressing.
Execution
9.       Region II, DPH would be responsible for the execution of the
works through its Special Projects Office. The construction works will be
executed by contract with supervision by DPH. The implementation schedule
is given in Chart 15355, which shows that construction would commence in
January, 1977. The road works are expected to take about 2 years and would
be completed by the end of calendar year 1978. The arrangements are
satisfactory and DPH has the organization, management and staff to implement
the road program.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Road Maintenance
10.       For maintenance the roads would be handed over to the Isabela
Provincial Government which is responsible for the maintenance of all
provincial roads within its boundaries. The Provincial Government has an
engineering department headed by a qualified Provincial Engineer who has
the staff and equipment to maintain the roads. His office is in Cauayan
where a new workshop is under construction. Road maintenance costs,
including periodic maintenance costs, are estimated to be about US$1,200 per
km per annum. Two thirds of maintenance funds are contributed by the
Central Government and the balance by the Provincial Government.
Economic Analysis
11.       Traffic Surveys.  Traffic counts are normally taken by DPH twice
a year. They were suspended in 1971 but have now been resumed. For the
purposes of the project additional counts were taken in April, 1975 for 24
hour per day for one week. Consultants (Valentine, Laurie and Davies -
Australia) are presently studying the feasibility of improving the Tuguegarao
- Santiago National Highway. If the study finds that, in addition to
improvements to the national highway, it is feasible to construct a bridge
or otherwise improve the crossing over the Magat river, some diversion of
through traffic from the project roads will take place especially in the
case of the Roxas-Gamu road. At present there is a ferry crossing to carry
light vehicles only when river levels are low. In order to determine the
amotnt of such diversion, origin and destination interviews were also
conducted at appropriate stations.
12.       The traffic counts were adjusted to take into account seasonal
fluctuations to arrive at the annual average daily traffic (AADT) and
traffic forecasts were made for the following two cases:
Case A - with the Tuguegarao-Quezon-Santiago National Highway in
its existing condition and without an improved
crossing over the Magat river; and
Case B - when the improved Tuguegarao-Quezon-Santiago National
Highway is opened in 1981 with an improved crossing
over the Magat river.
The AADT for the years 1975-1993 are given in Table 2 which shows a sig-
nificant traffic diversion (about 40%) from the Roxas-Gamu Road for Case B.
Traffic growth rates range from 8 to 10% per annum until 1985 and drop to
6% thereafter.
13.       Benefits.  The construction and improvement of the roads would pri-
marily reduce vehicle operating costs. Transportation costs would be less
and the benefits would be shared by the farmers. The roads are expected to
produce some development benefits but they are difficult to measure and are
not quantified.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
14.       Economic Rates of Return.  Discounting benefits and costs over a
15 year evaluation period, the economic rates of return for the project
roads are as follows:
Roxas-Gamu Road              Case A            20%
Case B           15%
Cabatuan-Cauayan Road        Cases A & B       18%
San Mateo-Alicia Road        Cases A & B       15%
15.       The.economic costs and benefits streams are shown in Tables 3, 4
and 5. Improvements to the Roxas-Gamu Road are based on Case B. Improve-
ments to the national highway are to be included in the proposed Fourth
Highway Project scheduled for appraisal in early 1977 with construction
works commencing later in the same year. If a better crossing over the
Magat river is not found feasible the Roxas-Gamu road would need strengthening
in about ten years. The economic rates of return for the other two roads are
essentially the same for Cases A and B.



ANNEX 6
ilall 1
PHIT IFPINES
1,I$CC RIVER IRRT7'  N' PvEw:   ium I
?rooosed Geometric Standards for Class 2 Roads
Terrain
Flat                Rolling
i)csign Speed (km/hr)                        60                    50
Favement svidth (mn)                        6.10                  6.10
Shoulder Width (m)                          1.50                  1.50
Min. Hor. Radius (m)                        120                     80
M1ax. Gradient (,)                            4                      6
Ston Sight Distance (m)                      70                    60
Pass Sight Distance (m)                     350                   250
?ight-cf-Way Width (m)                       20                    20
Pavement Design                             AASHO method, using an
8,000 Kg single axle load.
Sc>urce:  DPH



PHTLIPPTNES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATIONL PROJECT:  STAGE I
Traffic Volumes
Provincial Road       Length             Annual Average Daily Traffic
(kmn)    Traf~fic                                                             Estimated
Counts (vpd)                  Forecast (vpd)                       Traffic Growth(% p,al
1975                      1979   1951   1984              993
1.  Roxas..Gamu Road             35.2      146          (Case A        620    717    862   1142   1432            8 - 6
(Case B        620    515    612    812   1012            8 - 6
2.  Cabatuan-Cauayan Road        11.0      800          (Case A       1165   1368   1674   2344   3124           10 - 6
(Case B       1165   1368   167h   2304   2994          10 - 6:
3.   San Mateo - Alicia Road   18.9        433          (Case A        605    701    790   1070   1370            8 - 6
(Case B        605    620    780   1060   1350            8 - 6
Case A - With existing Tuguegarao - Quezon - Santiago National Highway and without improved
crossing over the Magat river.
Case B - When improved Tuguegarao - Quezon - Santiago National Highway is opened with an
improved crossing over the Magat river at Cabatuan.
Source: DPH
F3, O\



GHia; RIVER IRRIG' JLON   3OI:  Si xi I
cono1ic Gus Cus6   Benefits
Roxas-GPTh-u -ioad
Costs                               Benof ts
Year           Capital       Maintenance               Vehicle Operating Cost
Savings                        Savings
Case A         ,ase 3
1977            5,600
1979B          -5i                                     2020              2Q20
1980                             -41                   2100              2100
1981                             -h1                   22h0              O5Q0
1982                             -h1                   234h-0
1983                             -h1                   2h60               780
i98h                             -hi                   2580             1880
1985                             -480                  2750              s58o
1986                             -h1                   2920              2100
1987                             -41                   3100              2210
1988                             -41                   3300              2330
1989                             -h1                   3500              2h50
1990                             -41                   370u              2570
1991                             -h1                  hlilO              2700
1992                             -480                  4120              2830
1993                             -h1                   h360              2970
Economic Rate of Return: Case A = 20%
Case B = 15%
Case A - With existing Tuguegarao - Quezon - Santiago National Highway
and without improved crossing over the Magat river.
Case B - When improved Tuguegarao - Quezon - Santiago National Highway is
opqned in 1981 with improved crossing over the Magat river at
Cabatuan.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs & Benefits
Cabatuan-Cauayan Road
Costs                              Benefits 
Year             Capital         Maintenance             Vehicle Operating Cost
Savings                     Savings
1977--2-3-0  p   ---0
1977               2380                                          0
1978               2380                                          0
1979                                  -11                       740
1980                                  -12                       785
1981                                  -12                       850
1982                                  -12                       910
1983                                  -151                      970
1984                                  -12                      1040
19 8)-                                -12                      1100
1986                                  -12                      1160
1987                                  -12                      1230
1988                                  -151                     1300
1989                                  -12                      1380
1990                                  -12                      1h60
1991                                  -12                      15h0
1992                                  -12                      1640
1993                                  -151                     1740
Economic Rate of Return: 18%
Case A and Case B essentially the same.



ANNEX 6
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Fconomic Costs & Benefits
San Mateo-Alicia Road
Costs       _                        Benetits
Year             Capital       Maintenance               Vehicle Operating Cost
_______          Savings                      Savings
1977                4130
1978                4130
1979                               -1                            1100
1980                               -1                            1170
1981                               -1                            1230
1982                               -1                            1290
1983                               -242                          1360
1984                               -1                            1420
1985                               -1                            1510
1986                               -1                            1610
1987                               -1                            1710
1988                               -2h2                          1820
1989                                2                            1940
1990                                2                             2060
1991                                2                             2180
1992                                2                             2310
1993                               -237                           2h60
Eoononic Rate of Return:   15%
Case A and Case B essentially the same.



ANNEX 6
Appendix A
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Description of Project Roads
Roxas-Gamu Road (35.2 km)
1.        The road starts at the junction with the Tuguegarao-Quezon-Santiago
National Highway in Roxas town (population 27,000). It traverses flat terrain
for about 18 km and then gently rolling country passing the town of Burgos
(pop. 12,000), until it reaches Gamu town (pop. 15,000). The road extends
beyond the town proper over an existing bridge across the Cagayan river to
join the Philippines-Japanese Friendship National Highway. The area served by
the road is agricultural, mainly devoted to rice growing.
2.        The horizontal alignment of most of the road is good.  However,
the grades especially of the stretch of the road on flat terrain are low
and almost level with the adjoining rice fields. Occasional flooding of
the roadway to a shallow depth occurs during continuous heavy rains or
high floods. The existing width of the carriageway is about 4.00 m with
shoulder widths varying from 1.00-1.50 m.
3.        The subgrade consists for the great part of clayey and silty
soils but some gravelly and sandy soils are also present. The road gene-
rally has a gravel surface which is fair during the dry season but poor
during the wet season. There are short asphalt sections through Roxas and
Gamu towns but they have deteriorated except for some parts in Gamu town
which are fair.
4.        There are four bridges which are all in good condition and no
new bridges are required. Some of the existing pipe culverts are clogged
and some are broken. None have head walls or any protection around the
inlet to prevent erosion of the road embankment.
5.        The improvements proposed are to widen the road to Class 2
standards with a 6.10 m carriageway and double bituminous surface dressing.
The grades along some stretches would be raised by a maximum of about one
meter. Existing pipe culverts would be cleared and extended with headwalls
and protection works at the inlets and additional culverts would be installed
as needed.
Cabatuan-Cauayan Road (11.0 km)
6.        The road starts at Cabatuan town (pop. 19,000) situated on the
banks of the Magat river. A light vehicle ferry crossing serves the national



ANNEX 6
Appendix A
Page 2
highway running north and south from Cabatuan but little traffic from
the national highway is diverted to the project road. The situation is
expected to be the same when the national highway with the river crossing
is improved.
7.        The road runs in a southeasterly direction over a relatively
flat terrain planted with rice. It terminates in Cauayan town (pop.
47,000) at the junction with the Philippines-Japanese Friendship National
Highway.
8.        The horizontal alignment of the whole stretch of the road is
good but the grade for about 10 km from Cabatuan is low and subject
to occasional flooding. The existing width of the carriageway is 4.00 m
with shoulder widths varying from 1.00-1.50 m.
9.        The subgrade consists mostly of clayey and silty soils but some
clayey gravels and sands are also present. The road generally has a
gravel surface which is fair during the dry season but poor when the rains
come. There are short stretches of asphalt sections in Cabatuan and
Cauayan town but they have deteriorated.
10.       There is only one bridge along the road and it is in good
condition. No new bridges are required. The existing drainage facilities
are similar to the Roxas-Gamu road and have to be improved.
11.       The improvements proposed are to widen the road to Class 2
standards with a 6.10 m carriage and double bituminous surface dressing.
Almost the whole road would be raised by the average height of about 0.5
m Existing pipe culverts would be cleared and extended with headwalls
and protection works at the inlets. Additional culverts would also be
installed.
San Mateo-Alicia Road (18.9 km)
12.       The road starts at the junction with the Tuguegarao-Quezon-Santiago
National Highway in San Mateo town (pop. 34,000) and runs in a southeasterly
direction traversing generally flat terrain planted with rice all the way.
It terminates at the junction with the Philippines-Japanese Friendship Nation-
al Highway in Alicia town (pop. 28,000).
13.       The subgrade consists of clayey and silty soils.  The road has
a gravel surface throughout with many sections where the surfacing is
inadequate. There are three bridges and all are in good condition. No
new bridges are proposed. Most of the existing pipe culverts are clogged
and many are broken. None have headwalls or any protection round the
inlets.
14.       The improvements proposed are to widen the road to Class 2
standards with a 6.10 m carriageway and double bituminous surface dressing.



ANNEX 6
Appendix A
Page 3
The road would generally be raised by an average height of about 0.5 m.
Existing pipe culverts would be cleared and extended with headwealls and
protection works at the inlets. Broken culverts would be removed and new
culverts installed.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Erosion Control Study
General
1.        In 1974, the Pantabangan dam and appurtenant structures of the
Upper Pampanga River Project were completed. The Diayo and Canili dams
and reservoirs of the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project (APIP), as an
adjunct to UPRP, are currently under construction and construction of a
storage dam on the Magat river as a part of Stage II of the Magat project
is scheduled to begin in 1979. The watershed areas above the aforementioned
reservoirs are partially denuded, land management practices in the watershed
areas are poor, erosion control practices are nearly non-existent and
sediment loads carried by many of the streams are exceptionally high. Both
the quality and quantity of water impounded in these reservoirs and the
amount of sediment deposited in, them are dependent on watershed protection
and management. Improvements are needed to reduce erosion rates and the
amount of sediment deposited in the reservoirs to prolong reservoir life
and to ensure economic returns from the watersheds and from the irrigation
projects which depend on them as a source of water supply.
2.        The Pampanga watershed covers an area of about 84,500 ha of
which 40,000 ha are open land. Ten thousand persons displaced by the
reservoir are resettled within the watershed and may pose major problems
through intensified use of the area. The Canili-Diayo watershed covers
6,400 ha of which 4,300 ha are forest land and 2,100 ha are open land.
The Magat watershed covers some 414,300 ha, about 60% of which are open land
that need some conservation treatment. The breakdown of forest and open
areas in the three watersheds is:
Pampanga      Canili-Diayo       Magat
----------------(ha)-----------------
Watershed area           84,500           6,400         414,300
of which:
Forest                44,500           4,300         164,300
Open                  40,000           2,100        250,000
Forest cover is being further reduced by cutting of commercial timber,
and grass lands are regularly burned over at the end of the dry season
exposing the steep slopes to erosion during the rainy season.
3.        The proposed erosion study would provide technical assistance to
NIA in assessing the erosion problems, evaluating remedial measures and
preparing a plan for control to correct existing damage and prevent further
damage to the watersheds.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Objectives
4.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) conduct a benchmark inventory of the watershed areas
including land use, soils, vegetative cover, erosion
problems and sediment rates;
(b) establish systematic data collection programs to provide
additional data on sediment rates and their sources;
(c) identify problem areas, quantify present damage to the
watersheds and estimate future damage if remedial measures
are not taken;
(d) evaluate vegetative and mechanical erosion control methods
at selected sites in the watersheds with respect to suitability,
effectiveness and costs;
(e) develop standards for land use and watershed management that
would result in reduced sediment loads entering downstream
reservoirs. These would include management of upland agricul-
ture and shifting cultivation, range management, timber resource
management, fire protection and transportation planning; and
(f) propose an erosion control project comprising a plan of erosion
control measures and land use to correct existing damage and
prevent further damage, together with estimated costs and a
time schedule for implementation.
Implementation
5.        The study would be carried out over a 30-month period, from
July, 1976 through calendar year 1978, by the Special Projects Organization
of NIA with consultant assistance (about 65 man-months). An Erosion
Control Study Section would be established within the dam and reservoir
divisions of UPRP and Magat project to carry out the erosion control study.
NIA would select consultants to assist them with the study. Among other
things the consultants would be responsible for training NIA staff in
erosion control and watershed management work.
Costs
6.        The study is expected to cost a total of US$1.7 million including
a foreign exchange component of US$900,000 for aerial photography, consultant
services and purchase of vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies. Details
of the cost estimate are at Annex 9 and a list and cost of the proposed equipment
to be purchased is shown in Annex 10.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Input-Output Monitoring Program
General
1.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA), with assistance
from the Bank Group, is currently constructing and/or rehabilitating the
Pampanga, Aurora-Penaranda, Tarlac, Rural Development (Mindoro) and Magat
projects. These total some 190,000 ha and 77,000 farm families,
and if the proposed Chico Stage I project is included, about 210,000
ha and 85,000 farm families. Additionally, landless laborers living in
the project areas would equal around 10%-20% of the farm family population.
2.        If these projects are to be successful when NIA has completed
their construction, besides attaining the projected cropping intensities,
farmers must reach the projected paddy yields of around 4.0 ton/ha in the
wet and dry seasons. To do this, farmers must receive a sufficient and
timely supply of farm inputs, such as credit, seed, fertilizer, pesticide,
labor, water, threshing and drying facilities, and transport and marketing
services. If these inputs do not reach the farmers in time and in sufficient
quantities, the success of the entire NIA irrigation program could be
threatened.
3.        At present NIA cannot check the build-up and flow of farm inputs
in and to the project areas before the cropping season commences. NIA can
only react once the crop season starts, and input shortfalls are discovered.
Thus NIA requires a program which will monitor the flow of sufficient inputs
into each project area, and will allow it to rectify in time any shortfall
that may occur. Additionally, since crop production data is only collected
on a provincial basis with few details after the cropping season finishes,
NIA requires another program that will indicate the success or otherwise
of that crop season in each project area, that is, data on crop yields, farm
incomes and costs, changes in off-farm income, farming practices, changes
in landless laborers' incomes, and any other benefit flows from the indivi-
dual projects.
Objectives
4.        The objectives of the input-output monitoring programs would
be to:
(a) monitor the flow and build-up of farm inputs in each
project area before and during each crop season, and give
NIA sufficient warning of any likely shortfall so that it may
take appropriate action; and



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) monitor the size and the recipients of benefit
flows in each project area.
Implementation
5.        NIA would monitor inputs and outputs under separate programs,
and would give primary responsibility for implementing and operating
the programs to the Agricultural Department of the Special Projects Organi-
zation.
6.        As NIA does not have the necessary expertise to set up the
programs, it would engage a firm of consultants to advise on the imple-
mentation of the input monitoring, and an individual project benefit
monitoring specialist to advise on the output monitoring.
7.        For the input monitoring, NIA would hire the consultant firm
for a total of about 20 man-months, distributed over the project's five
year life. They would assist NIA to formulate and implement the program.
8.        NIA would hire the project benefit monitoring specialist for
a total of about 10 man-months over the project's five year life. He
would advise NIA on a survey program to monitor project benefits, and
assist in its implementation. Specifically, the consultant would advise
on survey sample size; questionnaire composition; data processing methods;
computer services; and survey cost estimates.
Cost
9.        The input monitoring program is estimated to cost US$370,000,
of which USS$26,000 would be foreign exchange for the purchase of equip-
ment, vehicles, materials and consultant services. The output monitoring
program is estimated to cost US$630,000, of which US$244,000 would be
foreign exchange for similar type purchases.
10.       The total cost estimate for both programs is US$1.0 million,
of which US$270,000 is foreign exchange. Annex 9 gives details of the
cost estimates, and Annex 10 lists the proposed equipment to be purchased
and its cost.



ANNEX 
PHILIPPINES                                            Table 1
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local    ForeigM    Total     Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange
_=---- (Pesos ')000)           -     - Ua T00o)-
1. IRRIGATION STSTEK
Chico Diversion Dam                       34,400    34,400    68,800    4,59o   14,590      9,180      50
Talaca Catch Dam                           5,500     5,400    10,900      730       720     1,450      50
Main Diversion Canal                      37,300    37,300    74,600    4,970    4,970      9,940      50
Diversion Canal No. 1 (Tabuk Area)         4,800     2,400     7,200      640       320       960      33
Chico West Rehabilitation Area             3,800     1,800     5,600      500       250       750      33
Chico West Extension Area                  2,000     1,000     3,000       270      130       400      33
Taga Gobgob Area                           9,200     4,600    13,800    1,230       610     1,840      33
Tabuk Area                                11,400     5,600    17,000    1,510       750     2,260      33
Agbannawag Area                           12,300     6,100    18,400    1,640       810     2,450      33
Quezon - Mallig Area                      147,1400   23,400    70,800    6,320    3,120     9,440      33
vWater Management Stations                J21          500     1 .600      140       70       210      33
Sub-Total                           169,200   122,500   291,700   22,540   16,340    38,880       12
Contingencies 20%                         33,800    24,500    58,300    4,510    3,270      7,780
Engineering, Supervision and Admin 10%, .  _34,100            3_1        4,540              4.540
Sub-Total                           237,100   147,000   384,100   31,590   19,610    51,200       38
2. PROVINCIAL ROAD PRUGkAM
Roan1 Iaprovement                         18,800    17,200    36,000    2,500    2,300      4,800      48
Right-of-Way                                          -        6,000       800      -         800
Sub-Total                            24,800    17,200    42,000    3,300    2,300      5,600      41
Detailed Engineering & Construction        5,200      -        5,200       700      -         700
Supervision 15%
Contingencies 20%              4,400   _                       8200       600      500      1,100
Sub-Total                            34,400    21,000    55,400    4,600    2,800      7,400      38
3. EROSION CONTPOL STUDY
Project Personnel                          3,560       420     3,980       475       55       530
Consultants Services                         600     2,620     3,220       80       350       430
Aerial Photography                           670       450      1,120      90        6C       150
Equipment and Suplies             5                  _         3,260 _70                      135
Sub-Total                             5,360     6,220    11,580      715      830      1,545      55
Contingencies 10%                            520       6140    1,1 60      70        85      1_5
Sub-Total                             5,880     6,860    12,740      785       915     1,700      55
4. INPUT-OUTPUT M40NITORING
Project Personnel                          2,920      -         2,920      390      -         390
Consultants Services                         790       490    1,280        105       65       170
Equipment and Supplies                     1.270     135       2620       170      180        350
Sub-Total                             4,980     1,840     6,820      665      245        910      27
Contingencies 10%                            490       1 90      680        65       25        90
Sub-Total                             5,170     2,030     7,500      730       270     1,000      27
5. FEASIBILITY STUDY STAGE II IRRIGATION          710       340     1.050        95       45       140      32
6. IRRIGATION OPERATION & MtINTENANCE NBUIPMTNi  380      6,370     6,750       5        850       900      95
Sub-Total Project Costs             283,940   183,600   467,540   37,850   24,490    62,340       39
Expected Price Increases                  9866      63,800   162.460   13,150  8&510    21.66
TOTAL BPOTJEqT CO3STS               382 600  2_47,_400   630o000   51,000   33,000    84,000      39
B/ ased on Annex 9, Table 7.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
PHILIPPINIES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost Estimate
Local       oreign       Total
-( US  000 )-_      
1.  Chico Diversion Dam                                4,590        4,590        9,180
2. Talaca Catch Dam
Dam                                                560          560        1,120
Access Road                                        170          160
Sub-Total                                   730         720
3. Main Diversion Canal
Canal                                            4,790        4 ,790       9,580
Road System                                        180          180           60
Sub-Total                                4,97°        4,97° 09,94
4. Diversion Canal No. 1 iTabuk Area)
Canal                                               590         300          890
Road System                                          50          20           70
Sub-Total                                  740           320          960
5.  Chico West Rehabilitation (1,400 ha)
Canal System                                       110           50          160
Drainage System                                    140           60          200
Road System                                          70          40          110
On-Farm Distribution and Drainage                  190           90          280
Water Management Stations                           -            10           10
Sub-Total                                   510          250         760
6. Chico '"est Extensicn (600 ha)
Canal System                                        90           40          130
Drainage System                                      60          30           90
Road System                                          40          20           60
On-Farm Distribution and Drainage                    80          40          120
'Water Management Stations                           10          -            10
Sub-Total                                   200          130         410
7. Tuga-Gobgob Area (1,250 ha)
Canal System                                       670          330        1,000
Drainage System                                    120           60          180
Road Sys-tem                                        270         140          410
On-Farm Distribution and Drainage                   170           80         250
'Water Management Stations                           10          10           20
Sub-Total                                 1,2h'          620        1,860
8. Tabuk Area (3,4,0O ha)
Canpl System                                       470          250          720
Drainage System                                     330         160          490
Road System                                         250         120          370
On-Farm Distribution and Drainage                  !460         220          680
Wqater Management Stations                           30          20           50
Sub-Total                                 1,540          770        2,310
9. Agbanna.wag Area (2,950 ha)
Canal System                                       660          340        1,000
Drainage System                                     290         140          430
Road System                                         290         140          430
On-Farm Distribution and Drainage                   400         190          590
Water Management Stations                            10          10           20
Sub-Total                                 1 ,60          820         ,7;70
10.  Quezon-Mallig Area (10,100 ha)
Canal System                                     2,750        1,370        4,120
Drainage System                                    980          480        1,460
Road System                                      1,240          610        1,B50
On-Fanr  Distribution and Drainage               1,350          660        2,010
Water Management Stations                            70            0         100
Sub-Total                                 6,390        3,9,50
Project Area Total                       22,540       16,340       38,880
Physical Contingencies (20%)                       4,510        3,270        7,780
Eagineering, Supervision & Administration (10%)  4540-
TOTAL T                                       0       19,610       51.,200



ANNEX 9
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATICK PROJECT: ST"GE I
EROSION CONTROL STTDY
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreien      Total
--- ----(U )- -
1. Project Personnel                              450          -          450
2. Training of Project Personnel                 _Zi          _55          80
Sab-Total                           475           55         530
3. Contractual Services
a) Aerial photography                          90          60          150
b) Consultants                                  80         350          30
Sub-Total                           170          410         580
4. Equipment, Supplies and Materials
a) Office and field supplies, furniture         60         120         180
and materials
b) Imported equipment
i)   Vehicles including spare parts          -          120         120
ii)  Hydromet and soil investigation         10          75          85
equipment
iii) Laboratory equipment for sedi-          -           50          50
ment and water quality                 -            -
Sub-Total                             70         365         435
Sub-Total, Itens 1-4                 715         830       1,545
5. Contingencies 10%                               75          80          155
TOTAL                                790         910      _1700



ANNEX 2
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
INPUT-OUTPUT MONITORING
Cost Estimate
Local       Forei n       Total
------     (US$OO0)----------
1.  Project Personnel                             390           0           390
2.  Consultant Services                           105          65           170
3.  Training of Project Personnel                   0          25            25
4.  Supplies and Materials
a)  Office supplies, etc.                     105          15           120
b)  Computer services                                       0            55
Sub-Total                       160          15           175
5. Equipment
a)  Vehicles                                    0          90            90
b)  Office equipment                           10          50            60
Sub-Total                        10         140           150
Sub-Total, Items 1-5            665         245           910
6.  Contingencies 10%                              6           25            90
TOTAL                           730         270         lflQOO



Table~
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIM  IMRlGATION PROJECT:  STAGE I
PROVINCIAL ROAD PROGRAM
Cost Estimate
Description                               Le-t-Local            Foreipm     Total
Improvement of Roads
1)  Roxas - Gamu Road                   35.2      1,200      1,200       2,400
2)  Cabatuan - Cauayan Road             11.0        500         400        900
3)  San Mateo - Alicia Road             18.9        800         700      1.500
Sub-Total                    65.1       2,500      2,300       4,800
Detailed Engineering and
Construction Supervision (15%)                         700         -          700
Physical Contingencies (20%)                           600         500      1,100
Sub-Total                               3,800      2,800       6,600
Right-of -Way                                          800         -          800
TOTAL                                    ,600      2,800       7,h40



Table 6
PHrLIPPIES
CHICO RIVER MERIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
FEASIBILITY STUDY STAGE II IRRIGATION
Cost Estimiate
Local      Forei&n      Total
(uWs$ooo)-
1. Project Personnel                         75.0           0         75.0
2. Equipmnent & Vehicles                      5.0        25.O         30.0
3. Supplies and Materials                     6.0        14.0         20.0
4. Contingencies                              9.0         6.o         15.0
TOTAL                           a5.0         5S.0       140.0



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIV  IRRIGATICIN PROJECT: STAGE I
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1976                   1978                     1980       Total
----------------       --(US$ '000----------------------------
1. Irrigation System                            730      2,040      16,830       19.,400     12,200      51,200
Provincial Road Program                    1,220      3,090        3090                      -          7400
Sub-Total                             1,950      5,130       19,920      19,400      12,200       58,600
Anual Inflation Rate t%)  /                   14          12          12          12          10
Expected Price Increases                      65        690        5,2 80      8,1oo       6,955       21,090
2. Erosion Control Study                        340        680         680         -            -         1,700
Input-Output Monitoring                      200        200          200         200         200       1,000
Feasibility Study Stage II Irrigation        -           50           90         -           -           140
Operation and Maintenance Eauipmnent         -          300          300         300         -           900
Sub-Total                               540      1,230        1,230         540         200        3,740
Annual Inflation Rate (%) 1/                  10          8            8           8           7
Expected Price Increases                      15         110         220         150          75          570
Total Without Price Increases         2,490-    6,360        21,150      19,940      12,400       62,340
Expected Price Increases                      80         800       5,500       8,250       7,030       21,660
Total with Price Increases            7,10 7,t60             26,650      28 190      19,430       84 0
j/  Calculated by compounding the estimated rate of price increase  in prior year and one-half the rate of
increase in the year concerned.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Equipment for Irrigation Force Account Work
Items                                Quantity           Unit       Total
Cost      Cost
--US $ 1,000---
Tractor, crawler  180 HP                          2               80          160
Tractor, crawler  175 HP                          2               70          140
Tractor, crawler   90 HP                          2               45           90
Crane, crawler, dragline 3/4 cu. yd.              2               80          160
Motor grader,  125 HP                             2               46           92
Front end loader, wheeled 1.5 cu. yd.             3               32           96
Truck, tractor w/25T trailer                      2               49           98
Truck, forklift                                   2               20           40
Truck, pickup 3/4T p4c                            3                9           27
Truck, dump  6-8 cu. yd.                          6               22          132
Truck, flatbed  6T                                4               20           80
Truck, water                                      1               18           18
Poller, 3 wheel steel 12T                         2               28           56
Mobile repair shop, truck mtd.                    1               67           67
Truck, fuel and lube service                      1               39           39
Station wagon 4x4                                 3                9           27
Jeep, utility vehicle 4x4                         6                8           48
Mixer, concrete  1 cu. yd.                        4               11           44
Vibrator, concrete                                2                2            4
Generator, 1OKW                                   4                8           32
Water pump 2"0 to 6110                            6                1            6
Tractor, industrial w/ backhoe loader             3               28           84
Radio transceiver, single sb.                     h                3           12
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                 -            80
Subtotal                                                           1,632
Spare parts (10%)                                                            168
TOTAL                                                              1,800



ANNEX 10
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Eouiment f or Irrigation Oreration and Maintenance
Item                                Quantity            Unit       Total
Cost      Cost
--US$ 1,000----
Tractor, crawler  9C HP                             2                45           90
Crane, crawler, dragline 3/4 cu. yd.                1                80           80
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader                1                28           28
Front end loader, wheeled 1.5 cu. yd.               1                32           32
Motor grader, 125 HP                                1                46           46
Roller, 3 wheel steel 12T                           1                28           28
Truck, tractor w/25T trailer                        1                49           49
Truck, water                                        1                18           18
Truck, dump 6-8 cu. yd.                             2                22           44
Truck, flatbed 6T                                   2                20           40
Truck, fuel and lube service                        1                39           39
Station wagon 4x4                                   1                 9            9
Jeep, utility vehicle 4x4                           2                 8           16
Mixer concrete 1 cu. yd.                            2                11           22
Compactor, 19 x 24 in. plate w/generator            1                 6            6
Water pump 2"1 to 6"                                 3                 1           3
Motor bike                                         60                  1          60
Weed cutter                                       250                  0.3        75
Radio transceiver, single s.b.                      1                 3            3
Mobile repair truck                                  1                67          67
Miscellaneous tools and equipment (lump sum)                                      50
Sub-total                                                                 805
Spare parts (10%)                                                                 95
TOTAL                                                                      900



ANNEX 10
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
EROSION CONTROL STUDY
List of Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies
Unit     Total
Items                           Quantity     Cost      Cost
-------(US$   0)_ ------_
1. Office Equipment, Field Supplies and Materials                              90.0
2. Vehicles and Equipment
Jeeps, 4 x 4                                         6          8.0       48.0
Pickups, 4 x 4                                       6          9.0       54.0
Mobile radios                                        6          1.5        9.0
Spare parts                                                                9.0
Sub-Total                                                      120.0
3. Hydromet and Soil Equipment
Water stage recorders                               10          1.5       15.0
Rainfall recorders, weighing types                  20          0.6       12.0
Standard rain gages                                 20          0.2        4.0
Current meters and accessories                       2          1.0        2.0
DH-48 sediment samplers                              2          0.3        0.6
IE-59 sediment samplers                              2          0.4        0.8
Engineer levels and accessories                       2         1.3        2.6
Weather stations with equipment                       3         3.0        9.0
Soil investigation equipment                         -                    19.0
Miscellaneous unlisted                                                    20.0
Sub-Total                                                       85.0
4. SedLment and Water Quality Laboratory Equipment                             50.0
5. Office Supplies                                                             30.0
TOTAL                                                          375.0



ANNEX 10
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
INPUT-OUTPUT MONITORING
List of Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies
Unit       Total
Items                     Quantity       Cost       Cost
------- - (US$  OOO)----------
1. Office Equipment
Desk program calculator                  1         25.0         25.0
Desk calculators                         8          1.0          8.o
Pocket calculators                      12          0.17         2.0
Typewriters                              6          0.75         4-5
Electric typewriters                     2          1.75         3.5
Mineograph machines                      3          2.5          7.5
Tape recorders                          12          0.2          2.5
Miscellaneous office equipment           -                       9.0
Sub-Total                                            62.0
2. Vehicles
Motorcycles                             24          1.0         24.0
Jeeps, 4 x 4                             8          8.0         64.0
Sub-Total                                            88.0
TOTAL                                              15.0



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total      FY772/       FY78      FY79       FY80      FY81
m S$-     -'uU)000…
Irrigation System                             51,200      1,750       9,450      18,100    15,800    6,100
Provincia]. Road Program                        7,400     2,700        3,100      1,600 -o 
Erosion Control Study                          1,700        680         680         340        -        -
Input-Output Monitoring                        1,000        250          250        200        200      100
Feasibility Studr Stage II Irrigation             140       -             90         50        _        _
Irrigation 0 & M Fquipment                        900       150          300        300        150
Sub-Total                           62,340      5,530      13,870      20j,90    16,150    6,200
EXpected Price Increases                      21,660        700        2,930      6,880      7,650    3,500
Total Project Cost                  84,o00     6,230       16,800      27,470    23,800    9,700
1/ IBRD Fiscal Years.
Ii
1-  



A1,1NEX 11
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                    Accumulated Disbursernents
anC 3erester                                         US$'ooo Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                                         0
2nd                                                     1,000
Fiscal Year 1978
lst                                                     4,0oo
2nd                                                     5,500
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                                    14h,c°0
2nd                                                    20,500
Fiscal Year 1980
Ist                                                    31,000
2nid                                                   373500
Fiscal Year 1981
1st                                                     5 ,000
2nd                                                   490OO0
Fiscal Year 1982
ist                                                    50,O00



ANNEX 1 1
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs             Propoaed
Category        .             Total      Foreign         Loan
-------- (US$ Million)-
I.  Civil Works:
Irrigation System 1/                  37.08       14.64
Provincial Road Program                5.60        2.30
Expected Price Increases              20.91        8.12           40.7
Sub-total                        63.9         25.06
Of which (a) Us$6.5 million for contractors' mobilization & equipment on
the irrigation system and (b) US$34.2 million for other civil works.
Disbursenent for (a) will be 100% of foreign expenditures and for (b)
60% of total expenditures.
II.  Equipment:  /                            3.48        3.09
Expected Price Increases               0.33        0.31            3.4
Sub-total                          3-.         3.40
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expendituras for direct1y imported
equipment, 100% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of total expenditure for imported equipment procured
locally.
III.  Technical Assistance:
Erosion Control Study                  1.11        0.46
Input-Output Monitoring                o.56        0.07
Expected Price Increases               o.42        0.08            1.2
Sub-total                          2.09        0.61
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure or 60% of total
expenditures.
IV. Unallocated
Physical Contingencies                 9.13        3.89            4.7
(Feasibility Study Stage II)          (0.14)      (0.04)
(Administration & Engineering)       4L.)           -
TOTAL                      84.00        33.00          50.0
1/  Force account equipment (US$1.8 million) excluded and transferred to
Category II.
2/ Includes equipment for force account (US$1.8 million), O&M (US$0.9 million),
Erosion Control Study (US$0.43 million) and Input-Output Monitoring
(Us$0.35 million).
Other than equipmsnt in Category II.
4/ No loan disbursement for feasibility study to be prepared by NIA without
consaltant assistance.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Organization and Management
1.        This annex covers organization aspects of the irrigation
component of the project. Annex 6 presents details of execution and
maintenance of the provincial road component, which would be carried out by
DPH. Since 1964, the overall responsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act NO. 3601 to
investigate, study, improve, construct and administer all national irrigation
systems. It was given the power to carry out investigations into all
available water resources in the country in order to utilize them for
irrigation and to collect water rates from the beneficiaries of the national
irrigation systems. Presidential Decree No. 552 of September 11, 1974 has
further widened NIA's scope by giving it "broader powers and authority to
undertake concomitant projects such as flood control, drainage, land
reclamation, hydraulic power development, domestic water supply, road or
highway construction, reforestation and projects to maintain ecological
balance, in coordination with the agencies concerned." The NIA is financed
by the Government through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors, composed
of a Chairman and five members, who are all ex-officio except for one member
appointed by the President of the Philippines on the recommendation of rice
and corn growers. Management of the NIA is vested in an Administrator
appointed by the President. The Administrator is also Vice Chairman of the
Board. Directly below the Administrator, there are three Assistant Adminis-
trators, respectively, responsible for Special Projects, Engineering
and Operation, and Finance and Administration. Field services are managed
by eight regional and two sub-regional offices, together with a number
of special project offices.
3.        The NIA is in the process of being reorganized and expanded
to meet the wider responsibilities imposed on it by PD No. 552 and by
the Government's policy of accelerating irrigation development. The
integration of the major foreign-assisted projects under a Sepcial Projects
Organization office to avoid duplication and to increase transfer of
experience between projects is one of the first results of the reorganiza-
tion. The Special Projects Organization has been given responsibility for
the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects, for the Asian Development Bank
(ADB)-assisted Angat-Magat and Davao del Norte projects and the Bank-assisted
Magat project (Chart 9533 (2R). The NIA would make the Special Projects
Organization responsible for executing and operating the Chico project.
Because of its small size and proximity to Magat, the Chico project would
be executed and operated as a division of the Magat project.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.        The NIA would appoint an Assistant Project Manager, Chico, respon-
sible for executing the project, and reporting to the Magat Project Manager.
The Magat divisions for engineering, agriculture, equipment and administration
would provide the required services to the Chico project. The proposed
organization is shown in Chart 15356. The Engineering Division would be
responsible for the preparation of plans, programs, designs, estimates,
specifications and construction work surveys. The Construction Division would
undertake contract administration work, including inspection and supervision
of works. It would also be responsible for force account construction. The
Administrative Division would be responsible for personnel and records manage-
ment, accounting, property procurement and other services. For Chico project
construction there would be two divisions: one located at Tabuk to build the
diversion dam and main diversion canal and the other located at Agbannawag to
build the irrigation and drainage systems.
5.        The Operation and Maintenance Division would take charge of all
new and existing systems in the project area. The Agricultural Development
Division would be responsible for introducing new water management techniques
and farming methods, and ensuring that necessary agricultural support
services are established in the area. For operation and maintenance
purposes the project area would be divided into two zones, each of about
10,000 hectares. Each zone would be under the supervision of an Irrigation
Superintendent having field offices in the service area. Each zone would
be divided into four water management divisions, each under a Supervisor.
Each water management division would be divided into 500-hectare units, each
the responsibility of a Water Management Technologist. Ten 50-hectare
rotation areas, the basic unit of the irrigation system, comprise the
500-hectare unit. Two 50-hectare units would be the basic organization
entity and would be supervised by a ditch tender. The boundaries of each
division and subdivision would be determined by the location of supply
canals. The estimated annual cost of operation and maintenance is i 130
(US$17) per ha as shown in Table 1.



ANN EX 12
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost of Irrigation Operation and Maintenance!'
Annual Cost
---P/ha----
Salaries and Wages                                    73
Equipment Costs                                       39
Materials and Supplies                                  3
Administrative and General Expenses                   15
TOTAL                                  13-
1/ From detailed NIA estimates of personnel and equipment
requirements, based on experience in UPRP.



ANNEX 13
Page I
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Supporting Agricultural Services
Extension
1.        Mnny Government organizations currently have dealings with the
farmers.  The principal agencies are:
(a) Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE);
(b) Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d) Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e) Department of Local Government and Community Development
(DLGCD);
(f) National Grains Authority (NGA); and
(g) National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In addition, there are non-Government Rural Banks (RB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) the need for coordi-
nating the various agencies providing services to the farmers was clearly
felt. An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was estab-
lished for the project to provide day-to-day control and coordination
of the activities of the various agencies within the project area. The
ADCC consisted of the Provincial Heads of all the participating agencies.
The arrangement is working well in UPRP and similar organizations are
being set up for the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project, the
Rural Development Project on Mindoro and the Magat project. As NIA would
operate the Chico project as a part of the Magat, the Chico project should
be included in the proposed Magat ADCC. However, this raises a difficulty.
While Magat falls within a single province, Isabela, the Chico project is
in the three provinces of Cagayan, Isabela, and Kalinga-Apayao. To avoid
having three ADCC's, and as the three provinces are within the same adminis-
trative region (Cagayan Valley), a regional level ADCC would be established
for the Magat and Chico project areas.
4.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation units
of 50 ha in the same manner as the Pampanga, Tarlac and Magat Projects.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
The 20 to 25 farmers in such a unit would be given every incentive to
work together as a group. The NIA would schedule irrigation on a rotational
basis thus promoting a uniformity of operations within each unit at any
given time. The rotational area would also be the basic unit for the
provision of credit and the building block for the eventual organization
Df irrigation associations and cooperatives.  In the Bank-assisted irriga-
tion projects, the NIA is assigning a Water Management Technologist to
every 10 units. The same staffing pattern would be applied to the Chico
project (3ee Annex 12). The water management staff would supplement
the existing extension personnel provided by the various Government agencies
and would help to increase extension coverage in the project area.
5.        New extension work items to be emphasized would include improved
irrigation and drainage practices; the importance of scheduling operations;
the use of good quality seed and even planting; proper fertilizer applica-
tion; weed and pest control; and the use of tillage and threshing machinery.
Research
6.        There are four BPI research stations in or near the project area:
the Cagayan Valley station at San Mateo, the Ilagan station, the Luna
station, and the Abulog station. The first two are in Isabela province and
the others in Kalinga-Apayao and Cagayan provinces respectively. The
Cagayan Valley station deals principally with rice and the others with
upland crops. The work on rice is focused on varietal screening, foundation
seed production and pure seed certification. In addition to the four BPI
stations, there is a Bureau of Soils unit, based at Ilagan, working on
fertilizers, soil fertility and soil erosion. NIA has good working relations
with the Central Luzon State University, the Agricultural College of the
University of the Philippines and the International Rice Research Institute.
The project would be able to draw on research backup from all these sources.
Fertilizer
7.        Annual consumption of fertilizer in the project area currently
amounts to about 1,600 tons, 70% of which is accounted for in approximately
equal proportions by sulphate of ammonia and ammonium phosphate. Applica-
tion rates of all fertilizers run at a low level of about 50 kg/ha in the
wet season and 105 kg/ha in the irrigated dry season crop. At full develop-
ment the project would require some 8,400 tons of fertilizer annually, of
which 35% would be urea and the balance ammonium phosphate. In terms of
nutrients the average rate of application per crop season would be 60 kg/ha
nitrogen and 30 kg/ha phosphoric acid. There are three commercial distri-
butors in the project area and existing supply channels would handle the
increased demand without difficulty.
Seed
8.        Just under 1,400 tons of rice seed per annum are currently used
in the project area. About 95% of the seed is obtained by retention from



ANNEX 13
Page 3
the farmers' commercial production and only 5% from seed-growers. The
Cagayan Valley station produces foundation and registered seed for bulking
by seed-growing cooperatives or selected individual farmers. At full
development the project would use approximately 1,800 tons of rice seed
per annum. There wiould be a decrease in the existing 55 kg/ha seed rate
to 50 kg/ha. On the assumption that rice seed would be renewed every five
crop seasons, the estimated annual requirement of quality seed for the
project area at full development would amount to 740 tons. No difficulties
are foreseen in supplying this amount.
Farmers' Organization
9.        As part of the Agrarian Reform program, the Government, through
the DLGCD, is promoting the formation of pre-cooperative farmers organiza-
tions, based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve
as channels for the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and
as assembly points for produce intended for market. It is hoped that at
a future date the organizations would grow into full-fledged, formally
constituted cooperatives. This approach to cooperative organization
fits in well with the 50-ha irrigation unit approach adopted by NIA on
Bank-assisted irrigation projects.
10.       Tne NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
among the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems. Without losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust
of NIA's efforts in UPRP and the other Central Luzon projects has been
to organize the farmers within the 50-ha units, primarily for production
and water management. The immediate aim is to demonstrate to the farmers
that working together and using water efficiently is possible and profitable.
Once this has been established, a realistic framework for setting up
irrigation associations would exist. The project area would be expected
to follow this example and gain from the experience of the Central Luzon
projects.
Credit
11.       Some 15-20% of the farmers in the project area finance their
requirement of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources.
The remainder use some form of credit. The principal sources are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) and private banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers; and
(d) money lenders.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Six of the 26 RBs in Cagayan, Isabela and Kalinga-Apayao provinces are
within reach of the project area farmers.
12.       To ensure the success of the Agrarian Reform program (Annex 3),
the Government has proceeded to strengthen the credit institutions and to
facilitate the granting of production credit to small farmers who pre-
viously depended on the landlords for their requirements. RBs have
been authorized rediscounting privileges of 100%, Government guarantees
of up to 85% of the loans made and low-cost money is available from the
Central Bank. The easier credit thus made available is employed under a
system of "supervised credit," which includes the provision of technical
services to the borrower to ensure that recommended practices, including
variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are adopted. Loans granted
under supervised credit are not secured by collateral, but are covered by
a Government guarantee; the interest is at 12% per annum and the loan
is for a period of six months. During the 1974 wet season crop, a total
of about P 51.9 million (US$6.8 million) was issued as production
credit to rice farmers in the three project area provinces. The PNB
accounted for about 60% of the total, the RBs for 38% and the ACA for the
balance. The area covered by the credit amounted to 64,500 ha.
13.       Under the "Masagana 99" program, production credit was given
up to P 800/ha, consisting of e 430 for inputs and F 370 for labor and
subsistence. The Government has since raised the rate to P 1,200/ha,
made up of P 680 for the inputs and P 520 for labor and subsistence. The
increased rate is a little below the production costs estimated at
full development. Assuming that at full project development about 10%
of the farmers in the project area would find their requirements of
inputs and hired labor from their own resources, some 7,200 farmers
would need credit from institutional sources. At a loan level of
D 1,200/ha the total annual credit requirement at full development
would amount to P 22.0 million (US$2.9 million). The existing credit
institutions would be able to meet the requirement.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Some 19,700 ha in the project area are currently cultivated to
rice in the wet season. Of these about 7,500 ha are irrigated and the
remaining 12,200 are rainfed. Of the presently irrigated area, 1,100
ha are in the existing Chico West system operated by the NIA, 3,200 ha are
in communal systems and 3,200 ha in privately owned and operated pumping
systems. The communal and pump systems are distributed as follows:
Section            Communal Systems          Pump Systems
(ha)                     (ha)
Tuga Gobgob                    1,250                     -
Tabuk                          1,000                    200
Agbannawag                       250                     -
Quezon-Mallig                    700                  3,000
Total                 3,200                  3,200
In the irrigated areas some 5,300 ha are cultivated during the dry season
for a cropping intensity of 171%. However, for the project area as a
whole the present cropping intensity is only 127%.
2.        Wet season irrigated rice is grown between July and February.
Transplanting is spread over a 14 week period between July and October
and harvesting takes place over a 12 week period in December and February.
The dry season crop is grown between February and September, with most
of the transplanting in March-May and the harvest in July-September.
The rainfed wet season crop tends to be about one month earlier than
the irrigated crop. While a majority of the farmers adhere to the above
time tables, there is considerable slippage, which is particularly notice-
able in the irrigated areas. All rice is transplanted from field nurseries
onto previously puddled land.
3.        On the presently irrigated land 70% of the area is planted to
improved varieties in the wet season crop and 95% in dry season crop,
compared to only 27% in the rainfed areas. in the absence of irrigation,
farmers prefer the lower yielding, but hardier local varieties. The
average paddy yield in the rainfed areas is about 1.5 ton/ha, on the



ANNEX 14
Page 2
irrigated areas the yield in the wet season is about 2.3 ton/ha and 2.7
ton/ha in the dry season. The low yields are due to inadequate water
supply, to unsatisfactory water management, and poor farming practices.
The latter are exemplified by uneven transplanting, high weed infesta-
tions, inadequate use of agro-chemicals and untimeliness of operations.
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project the rate of increase in yield in
the rainfed areas is estimated at about 1.5% per annum and would probably
be due to a slow increase in the area under high yielding varieties. In
the irrigated areas the yields in both wet and dry season crops are
estimated to increase by some 1.7% per annum as a result of gradual
improvement in crop management. The use of inputs would be expected to
increase with the availability of greater supplies of credit and more
extension efforts as part of the Government's campaign for national
self-suffici-ncy in rice. The average yield increase throughout the
project area is projected to increase by 1.6% per year from 1976 to
1986. Existing cropping intensities would remain unchanged in the absence
of additional water supplies and improvement of the system.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and in crop produc-
tion under the project are shown in Table 1.  Some 19,700 ha would
be provided with wet season irrigation, of which 12,200 ha are currently
rainfed. Project facilities and better water management would allow dry
season cropping to increase from 5,300 ha by 11,700 to 17,000 ha. Overall
cropping intensity in the project area would rise from the present 127% to
186%. The proposed cropping pattern based solely on rice is consistent
with soils and topography and with the customs of the local people.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and inputs
and a strengthened extension service, future paddy yields under irrigation
are expected to be 4.0 ton/ha for both the wet and dry season crops.
The projected yields would be reached five years after the introduction of
water. Although Chart 9536 (R) shows high typhoon frequencies, these refer
to all Northern Luzon, arv.' ftc't: to a particular spot such as the project
area. The proposed cropping calendar should minimize typhoon damage.
Nevertheless, dry season yields with the project have been reduced to allow
for some losses.
7.        The improved yields would be obtained from the use of high
yielding varieties throughout the project area, better land preparation
through greater use of machi.nery, certified seed, row planting, heavier
fertilizer input and greater expenditure on crop protection and weed
control. The improved road network envisaged under the project would allow
better access to the farms, thus facilitating the inflow of inputs and
outflow of produce.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Development Constraints
8.        The project would bring a change in the cropping calendar, a 47%
increase in labor requirement, a greater degree of mechanization of both
land preparation and harvesting, and a demand for additional drying and
storage facilities. The most important issues are examined briefly.
9.        Cropping Calendar.  To ensure efficient utilization of resources
and the avoidance of technical and organizational bottlenecks, cropping
calendars must be prepared as a basis for extension and water management
activities.  Chart No. 9536 (R) shows a provisional calendar.  The main
difference between the proposed and existing practice is the tightening
of the dry season crop schedule to avoid harvesting in September, a wet
month with a high probability of being struck by a typhoon. The proposed
calendar allows for a 30-day period for system maintenance in February, the
driest month in the year. There would be little change in the wet season
crop, except for some acceleration of operations to take advantage of peak
rainfall and to ensure that harvesting and threshing take place in the
dryest conditions available.
10.       Labor Availability.  The supply and demand for labor with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 17.
11.       Mechanization.  At present just under 80% of the rainfed area
relies entirely on animal drawn equipment for land preparation. In the
irrigated areas, machinery is used for land preparation on a little less
than 60% of the area cultivated in both wet and dry season crops. With
improved water management, better access to the fields, the need for
tighter scheduling of operations to maximize water use and increased
cropping intensities, it is estimated that the use of machinery would
increase to the point that 80% of land preparation in the wet season
crop and 90% in the dry season crop would be mechanical. It is antici-
pated that the machinery, mostly four-wheel tractors and rotary tillers,
would be operated mainly by contractors, as is currently the practice.
12.       Harvesting.  The rice is harvested by sickle and the bundles
may be left for a few days in the field to dry, depending on the weather.
Threshing is either carried out manually by beating the panicles on a
slatted table or by mechanical threshers. The latter are fairly large
machines and need firm ground conditions. At present only some 20% of
the rainfed area is threshed mechanically, while machinery is used on
about 60% of the irrigated area in the wet season crop and on 55% in the
dry season crop. Under project conditions of much better access to the
fields and improved field drainage, it is assumed that some 90% of the
cropped area would be threshed mechanically. This would not present
any difficulties as existing contractors are enterprising and can be
expected to meet the requirements.
13.       Drying and Storage.  The bulk of the threshed paddy is currently
sun-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. Some of the rice



ANNEX 14
Page 4
mills have concrete drying floors. The National Grains Authority (NGA)
plans to erect a number of artificial dryers throughout the rice producing
areas of the Cagayan Valley. Existing arrangements appear to be adequate
for the present paddy crop of 50,000 tons. At full development the annual
production from the project would total 147,000 tons. Production from the
wet season crop would increase by 120%, while the dry season crop would
increase by 375%. The wet season crop harvest should not present problems
as it would take place mainly in January and February, the two driest months
in the year. Some expansion in drying facilities, both solar and mechanical,
would be needed to deal with the increased output of the dry season crop
harvested in the wetter July-August period. The project would provide addi-
tional solar drying facilities attached to the Water Management Technologist
Stations. The DLGCD is currently engaged in a program to provide every barrio
with a paved area to be used for sport, recreation and crop drying. Millers
are also aware of the need for drying and can be expected to provide whatever
additional facilities are required. Storage capacity within the project area
is just enough for present production, but would need to be expanded to meet
the increased yields. In addition to on-farm storage, there are public and
private sector storage facilities. The NGA is building additional storage
and the private sector is expected to follow suit to meet rising paddy
production from the project area.
14.       Processing.  There are 105 privately owned rice mills and hullers
in the project area municipalities. Assuming a 12-hour working day and a
200-day milling season, the mills have an annual capacity of 50,000 tons of
paddy compared to the current area production of 63,00 tons. There are no
difficulties in processing the existing crop as there is ample spare
milling capacity in the neighboring Magat project area. However, additional
milling capacity would be needed at full development. No difficulties are
expectod in providing the required extra milling capacity as the private
sector is enterprising and has access to capital.
Marketin
15.       The farmer may sell his surplus paddy to a middleman, store it in
a private or Government-owned warehouse in the hope of obtaining a better
price, have it milled and sell the rice to a trader, or sell the paddy
to the NGA at the Government support price. While the Government is
involved in the marketing sector, there is no authority with specific
responsibility for marketing. The part played by Government agencies and
farmers' marketing cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis
currently being placed on the development of cooperatives as an essential
support to agrarian reform, it is likely that at full project development,
cooperatives would play a larger role in marketing paddy.



ANNEX 1
-Table-1-
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area         Paddy Production
Present   Future       Present   Future_/
---    (haT -----       ('OOC tns)T--
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice                        7,500    19,700        17.3        78.8
Rainfed Rice                         12,200                  18.3
Sub-total                      19,700    19,700         35.6        78.8
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice                        5,3°°    17,000        14.3        68.0
TOTAL                           25,000    36,700        499 9      14668
Cropping Intensity:                     L27%                  186%
1/ At full development 1986.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        One of the Philippines Government's main policy goals is self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. A deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem. Official figures
show that for 1963-1967 the Philippines imported an average of about
300,000 tons of rice annually. Although the Government did not import rice
in 1969 or 1970, stocks declined in those years. Rice imports were again
over 300,000 tons in 1971, 1972 and 1973, reaching 456,000 tons in 1972
because of disastrous floods that year. Good domestic crops allowed
smaller rice imports of 170,000 tons in 1974, and 142,000 tons to October
31, 1975. To sufficiently maintain stocks, imports in 1975 could still
total 200,000 tons.
2.        For the second year running, the Philippines produced a record
rice crop in 1975. For the crop year ending June 30, 1975, official paddy
production was 5.7 million tons harvested from 3.5 million ha, yielding
some 1.6 ton/ha. This was slightly larger (by 1%) than the record 1973/74
crop. Despite these good harvests, rice self-sufficiency is not imminent.
With a population of 42 million, converting paddy to milled rice at a 63%
recovery rate, and adding 200,000 tons consumed from imports, per capita
consumption of milled rice in 1974/75 was 90 kg. Based on population
forecast of 55 million in 1985 (Philippines Basic Economic Report, 1975),
and the annual per capita consumption of milled rice remaining at 90
kg, total Philippine rice demand in 1985 would be some 5.0 million tons.
At a 63% recovery rate, this is equivalent to 7.9 million tons of paddy.
To meet this demand, paddy output would have to increase by 3% to 4% yearly
between 1975 and 1985. This rough demand computation is in line with the
Basic Economic Report, 1975, which suggests rice production will have to
expand by 3.5% per year if domestic demand is to be met and imports elimi-
nated. Although from 1965 to 1970, paddy production increased by some 5%
per year, from 1970 to 1975 production increased only 0.8% yearly. The 5%
growth rate resulted from the introduction of high yielding varieties to
the Philippines in the late 1960's. Since then production growth has been
small despite the Government's Masagana 99 program to increase rice produc-
tion launched in May 1973. The project would help increase the current
growth rate, and farmers should have no difficulties in marketing the
additional rice from the project area. The project area has traditionally
supplied rice for consumption in the Cagayan Valley, in the provinces of
the Ilocos and the Central Luzon regions, and occasionally in the Manila
and Southern Tagalog regions. With the project, this pattern would mainly
continue, with buyers from Ilocos and northern Central Luzon purchasing



ANNEX 15
Page 2
most of the additional rice, and little, if any, going to Manila or farther
south.
Prices
3.        Since 1957 the Government has set an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and to allow some purchases of
paddy by Government to build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for
operating the system rested with an independent body, the Rice and Corn
Administration, which operated unsatisfactorily. On September 28, 1972,
the responsibility for rice and corn was transferred to a National Grains
Authority (NGA).
4.        During the late 1950's and early 1960's the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was P 9.5 per cavan 1/ (P 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after, it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached P 20.0 per cavan
(F 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available to compare the
annual average market and support prices for paddy before 1965, the Sector
Survey 2/ shows the market price about 10% higher in 1965, and the support
price about 10% higher from 1966 to 1970. Since 1971 the market price has
generally exceeded the support price, except in areas where the NGA has not
operated. The NGA only commenced buying in the project area in April 1975.
Before then, unofficial figures suggest the market price was considerably
below the support price in the project area. The poor road system in the
area also contributed to the lower prices.
5.        The behavior of market prices in relation to the support price
is consistent with the record of domestic paddy output during the past
decade. In the early 1960's, domestic production was unable to meet the
growing demand for rice and this tended to raise market prices above the
support price. After the mid-1960's, increased production as a result of
the spread of high yielding varieties improved the balance between domes-
tic production and consumption and tended to depress market prices. During
the last three to four years the trend has reversed and the market and
support prices are practically the same. As a result of continuing infla-
tion and to encourage farmers to increase paddy production, the Government
has continued to raise the official support price for paddy,which in
December, 1975 was f 50 per cavan (1 1,000/ton). In the project area,
the market farm gate price was P 47 per cavan (P 940/ton).
6.        Through 1972, the farm gate support price for paddy and the
domestic consumer price for rice kept pace with changes in the world market
1/   Before 1974 a "cavan" or sack of paddy was equivalent to 44 kg.  Since
1974 the official weight of a cavan of paddy is set at 50 kg.
2/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
391-PH). Annex 10, Table 13.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
price for rice. Since then however, to keep domestic prices down in the
face of record high world market prices for rice, the Government has
subsidized consumers by maintaining a low official ceiling price for rice
and a correspondingly low farm gate price for paddy by sales of imported rice
on the domestic market below cost. This subsidy cost the Government about
US$20 million in 1974.
7.        The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25%-35% broken
rice to fall (at constant mid-1976 prices) from US$330 per ton fob Bangkok
in 1976 to around US$240 per ton in 1985. These projections have been used
to estimate the present and future farm gate prices of paddy for the farm
budgets and the economic analysis. In the farm budgets, using the official
exchange rate (US$1.00 = P 7.50), the corresponding farm gate prices fall
from P 1,650 per ton (P 83 per cavan) in 1976 to P 1,220 per ton (P 61 per
cavan) in 1985. For the economic analysis, using a shadow priced foreign
exchange rate (US$1.00 = P 8.30), farm gate paddy prices fall from P 1,820 per
ton (P 91 per cavan) to P 1,350 per ton (P 68 per cavan). Over the same
period the current paddy support price of P 50 per cavan is is expected to
rise to P 61 per cavan at constant mid-1976 prices. This implies that by 1985
the subsidy to consumers would fall to zero, and the market farm gate price
and the support price for paddy' would be equal.
8.        Table I shows the present and projected price structure for rice
and urea as used in the economic analysis. In the project area, rice ex-
mill has been valued at the cif price Manila of imported rice. Unloading
plus distribution costs of rice imported through Manila have been assumed
equal to rice transport costs from the project area to rice deficit areas.
Some rice may be imported into the Philippines through San Fernando in the
Ilocos region, but higher unloading and storing charges here are likely to
offset any cheaper distribution costs compared to Manila.



PHILPPINES!
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION; PROJECT: STAGE I
Rice and Urea Price Structure. 1976 and 1285
(P or US$/ton at Constant Mid-1976 Prices)I/
1976                         -1985
Rice                                P/ton       US/Pton           E/ton       US/ton
Export price Thai 25%-35% brokens fob Bangkok            2,470         330             1,990         240
Ocean freight and insurance                                190          23               190          23
Import price cif Manila                                  2,930         353             2,180         263
Rice price ex-mill, project area                         2,930         353             2,180         263
Paddy equivalent price (63% rice recovery)               1,845         223             1,375         165
MiUling costs less value of by-products                   ,             -              1              -
Handling and transport costs, farm to mill               - 25         -  3              - 25        - 3
Farm gate paddy price                                    1,820         220             1,350         162
(Financial farm gate price)2/                           (940)       (125)           (1,220)       (162)
P/cavan                       P/cavan
Ec onomic                                                   91                            68
(Financial )A                                            (47)                          (61)
Urea
Export price fob Europe, bagged                          1,910         230             1,415         170
Ocean freight and insurance to Philippine ports            330          40               330          40
Handling and retail distribution costs                     330          40               330          40
Retail price project area                                2,570         310             2,075         250
Transport cost retailer to farm                             25           3                25           3
Urea farm gate price                                     2,595         313             2,100         253
(Financial farm gate price)_/                         (1,780)       (237)           (1,900)       (253)
1/ At shadow-priced exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.3
i/  At official exchange rate of US$a.00 = P 7.5



ANNEX 16
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Annex 14 contains the existing and proposed cropping patterns.
This annex shows:
(a) Production costs for irrigated and rainfed rice at present
and in the future "with" and "without" the project (Table 1).
Present production costs are based on the results of a survey
conducted by NIA, and interviews in the area during appraisal.
In the future without the project, input levels would change
little in rainfed areas, but crop husbandry would improve in
the irrigated areas. Future input levels for "with project"
conditions are based on recommendations by the Bureau of Soils
and the Bureau of Plant Industry, and expected increases in
mechanized cultivation and threshing;
(b) Monthly labor requirements for the wet and dry season crops
per hectare, based on present and proposed cropping calendars
(Table 2). Under project conditions, the labor requirements
for land preparation and harvesting would be reduced by the
use of machinery, while the labor requirements would increase
for crop management, including such activities as weeding,
fertilizer and pesticide application, and irrigation;
(c) Crop budgets for the present and for the future "with" and
"without" the project (Table 3); and
(d) Farm budgets for typical family farms of 2.0 ha and 4.0 ha
(Table 4). The budgets are calculated according to cash
flows. Labor costs include only hired labor and not farm
family labor. Monthly hired labor requirements are deter-
mined by comparing total monthly labor requirements with
a maximum availability of 40 man-days of family labor per
farm per month. Hired farm labor is costed at P 6 per day,
except during harvest when hand cutting of the crop is costed
at 7% of the crop value, and hand threshing at 5.5%. Future
water charges are similar to those for the Mlagat project,
that is 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season
and 4.4 cavans in the dry season. Assuming that the majority
of farmers would be amortizing owners under the Agrarian
Reform, land payments are calculated on actual payments
made by the Land Bank to former landlords in the provinces of
Isabela, Kalinga-Apayao and Cagayan for rainfed and irrigated
land. Separate budgets are shown for farms presently irrigated
by gravity and by pumps.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Rice Crop Production Costs -
Present                                Future Without Project                   Future With Project    2
Wet Season             Dry Season               Wet Season           Dry Season          Wet Season   Dry Season  -
Cash Inputs (P/ha)                            Rainfed    Irrigated       Iigated              Rainfed   Irrigated       Irrigated          Irrigated    Irrigated
Cultivation                                110        150             155                  135         170           180                180           190
Seed                                       100 (55)   100  (55)       110  (55)             75  (70)   70  (60)       70  (60)           90   (80)    90   (80)
Fertilizer                                  80 (45)   190 (115)       225 (135)            120 (110)  315 (285)    360 (325)            470  (425)   470  (425)
Agro-Chemicals                              35 (30)    45  (40)         55  (50)            65  (60)   90  (80)    110 (100)            250  (230)   260  (240)
Hlarvesting                                 75 (40)   175  (90)       190 (100)             80  (75)  200 (180)    220 (200)            340  (305)   300  (275)
Other                                       20         25               25                  30          35            35                 60            70
Interest                                       (30)         (45)             45                 (40)        (65)          (70)                (100)         (100)
Total Cash Inputs                     420 (330)  685 (520)        750 (565)            505 (520)  880 (875)    975 (970)          1,390(1,380) 1,380(1,380)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha) 3/
Land Preparation                                28           26              26                  27          25            22                   22            20
Planting                                        32           32              32                  32          32            32                   32            32
Crop Management                                 14           17              16                  15          18            20                   27            28
Harvesting                                      26_          25              26                  21          20            21                   19            20
Total Labor Inputs                         100         100             100                   95          95            95                 100           100
1/  Economic prices, based on world market rice and fertilizer prices, for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices
prevailing at appraisal for use in farm budgets.  Unit costs for rice (seed) and fertilizer are now higher than in the future as world market
prices for them are projected to fall (at mid-1976 constant prices).
2/ Based on the following assumptions at full development:
(a)  Cultivation - Mechanical 90% @ P 200/ha                                        (d)  Agro-Chemicals - Lump sum
- Animal     10% @  P 90/ha                                       (e)  Harvesting      - Mechanical threshing 80% of crop @ 7% of yield value.
(b)  Seeding rate- 50 kg/ha@   average P 1.60/kg                                    (f)  Interest       -- @  12%/year on production credit for 9 months
(c)  Fertilizer  - Urea 80 kg/ha @ P 2.1/kg                                                                on 90% of cash inputs                                 >
16-20-0 150 kg/ha @ P 2.0/kg
3/  Excluding labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included under cash inputs.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Rice Crops (man-days/ha)L' 2/
Jan     Feb.    March    April    May    June    July            Aug      Sept    Oct        Nov.    Dec.            Total
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice       p              6             -              -         -        -       19        24      20        8        11        12            100
W              -         -        -          -        -        -        17       22      20       11        12        13             95
W             16        8         -         -         -        -         2        5      13       23        21        12            100
Rainfed Rice         P             14       12         -         -         -        -       12        12      17      12         12         9            100
tT            14       10         -         -         -        -        10       13      15       13        15         5             95
W                             -                       _        _         _        _        _       _          _        _              _
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice       P              -       14        18        21        14        9       14        10       -        -         -         -            100
iW            14       18        23         9         8       12        11        -        -       -          _        _             95
W              -        -         5        24        29       12        17       13       -        -         _         -            100
1/   P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
2/   Excluding labor handling farm machinery.
3 D



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Rice Crop Budgets I/
Present                           Future Without Project                  Future With Project
Wet Season         Dry Season              Wet Season           Dry Season          Wet Season   Dry Season
Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated            Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated             Irrigated    Irrigated
yield (ton/ha)                               1.5         2.3            2.7               1.7          2.6           3.1                4.0            4.0
Farm-gate Price (P/ton)                    940         940            940            1,220         1,220         1,220             1,220           1,220
Gross Value of Production (P/ha)         1,410       2,160          2,540             2,075        3,170         3,780             4,880           4,880
Production Costs, Excluding Labor          330         520            565               520          875           970             1,380           1,380
(P/ha)
Net Value of Production,                 1,080       1,640          1,975             1,555        2,295         2,810             3,500           3,500
Excluding Labor (P/ha)
Labor Requiremients (man-days/ha)          100         100            100                95           95            95                100            100
1/   Financial costs and prices are used, based on Table I.
a,'



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Farm Budgets
______-------- 2.0 ha Farm ---------------             ------------------4.0 ha Farm------------------
Present             Future w/Proi.                       Present       _        Future w/Proi.
Unit     Rainfed    Gravity    Pump          Gravity             Rainfed      Gravity      Pump         Gravity
Irrig.     Irrig.      Irrig.                            Irrig.       Irrig.       Irrig.
Transplanted Rice                    (ha)          2.0         3.7      3.0           3.7                  4.0          7.4        6.0           7.4
Total Cropped Area                   ,ha)          2.0         3.7      3.0           3.7                  4.0          7.4        6.0           7.4
Cropping Intensity                   (% )          100         186      150           186                  100          186        150           186
Total Paddy Production              (ton)          3.0         9.2      7.3          14.8                  6.0         18.4       14.6          29,6
Gross Value of Production -          (P )        2,820      8,650    6,860         18,055                5,640       17,300    13,720         36,110
Production Costs(Exclud. labor)    (P )            660       2,000    1,605         5,105                1,320        4,000      3,210        10,210
Costs of Hired Farm Labor 21         (P )          -           450      285           140                  520        2,140     1,400          2,380
Net Value of Production              (P )        2,160       6,200    4,970        12,810                3,800       11,160      9,110        23,520
(Before Water Charges)
Water Charges  3/                    (P )          -           455      990            890                 -            910      1,980         1,770
Net Value of Prodvjction             (P )        2,160       5,745    3,980        11,920                3,800       10,250      7,130        21,750
(After Water Charges )
Annual Payment for Land  4/          (P )          930       2,880    1,850         2,880                1,860        5,760      3,700         5,760
Net Crop Income                      (P )        1,230       2,865    2,130          9,040               1,940        4,490      3,430        15,990
Farm Labor Requirements       (man-days )          200         370       300           370                 400          740        600           740
1/  Based on Tables 1 and 3.
2/  Based on a maximlim of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor.                                                                          1 3
3/  Based on present charges of P100/ha in the wet season and P150/ha in the dry season; an average pumping cost of P350/ha;  and proposed                  
future charges of P175/ha and P220/ha in the wet and dry seasons.                                                                                                  (D
4/  Based on an amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years @ 6% interest on the unpaid balance.                                                                 r_.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Farm Labor_Analysis
Labor Supply
1.         According to an NIA survey, data from the 1970 Census of Popu-
lation and Housing, the 1971 Agricultural Censuis and the Department
of Agrarian Reform, the present rural population of the project area is
55,000. This consists of about 8,050 farm families, and some 1,950 landless
families occupied principally or entirely in agricultural production. The
average farm fampily is 5.5 persons, from whiich two full-time workers are
available for farm work, giving a total famnily labor supply of 16,100
workers. Assuming each of the other 1,950 families also supplies twvo
workers, the total estimated project area rural labor force is 20,000.
Assuming 240 days per worker per year, a monthly average of 20 days, the
total annual labor supply is 4.8 million man-days, or 0.4 million man-days
per month.
2.         From 1960 to 1970, while the total Philippine population grew 3.0%
per year, the population in the project area municipalities grew at 3.5% per
annum due to migration from other regions. Assuming that migration continues
in the future, and the rural work force in the project area grows at 3.5% per
year (tversus the 1975 Basic Economic Report's average 3.0% growth projection
for the Philippine work force over the samqe period), rural labor would total
some 28,000 at fullI project development in 1986. This would give a total
annual 'Labor supply of 6.72 million m-an-days, and a monthly average suipply of
0.56 million man-days.
Labor Demand2
Annex 16, Table 2 gives estimates of average monthly and annual
labor requirements per ha for different rice crops. Mechanization of land
preparation and paddy threshing is already widespread, particularly on land
with somne existing irrigation. In future, without the project, som-e addi-
tional mechanizationn of land preparation and thireshing is assumed, thereby
slightly -reducing labor requirements per ha. The timing of cropping opera-
tions throughoUt tie- project area varies widely. This diversity contributes
to thie difficulties of wqater management in present irrigated areas, and of
scheduling inputs arvi s;upportiiid~ -s vLces. With the project, strict sche-
duling of operations would be essential to permit adequate irrigation of the
whole area. This in turn would rp_qpire further miechianization of land prep-
aration, particularly for the dry season crop. At the same timne practically
all threshing would be done by hired mechanic.al threshers. Notwithstanding
this additiona'l mechanization, average labor requiirements per ha at fuill
project development are estimated to be stim.ilar to present levels because
of higher crop management requirements.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        Table 1 gives estimates of total monthly labor requirements
in the project area. The present annual requirement is some 2.5 million
man- days, or 52% of the estimated rural labor supply. Yearly labor demand
has a pronounced seasonal pattern. Peak monthly demand occurs in August
and half of total yearly labor is needed during the four month period July
through October. Present dry season labor demand is much less than that of
the wet season, beginning at 55% of available labor supply in February and
falling during consecutive months to a low of 12% in June. In future
without the project, increased mechanization would slightly lower the
annual labor requirements to 2.4 million man-days. Except for small
monthly variations, the seasonal employment pattern would remain as now.
The project would greatly increase dry season irrigation and the dry season
labor demand which would increase yearly labor demand and even out seasonal
labor requirements. At full development annual labor requirements would be
3.7 million man-days, 55% or 1.2 million man-days greater than without the
project. Tighter scheduling of cropping operations and a later planting of
the wet season crop would concentrate the wet season peak labor demand, and
shift it to the period October through January; it would also make better
use of the available rainfall and avoid harvesting during the high rainfall
month of November. NIA would maintain the system during the dry conditions
of February and farmers would grow their dry season crop from March through
August. At 1.7 million man-days, total dry season labor demand would
be 86% of the total wet season labor demand of 1.97 million man-days.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
5.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project
area is limited. Most work is done by unpaid family labor and traditional
"exchange" labor. Information on off-farm employment is even less relia-
ble. The wage for hired labor in peak agricultural seasons is around P 6
per man-day, which is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of labor
to the economy at such times. In months of high rural unemployment, which
characterize most of the year, the opportunity cost of labor would be much
lower. The economic cost of farm labor in the project area was therefore
estimated by taking account of the generally prevailing rural unemployment
and extreme seasonal fluctuations in labor demand.
6.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm
labor in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Chart
15379). The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor
demand and increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The increase
is slow initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive
employment, but becomes more rapid as the labor supply becomes fully used.
At full employment in the project area, the opportunity cost is assumed
equal to the market wage of e 6 per man-day. As labor demand increases
beyond this point, the market wage rate continues to rise until it reaches
F 7 per man-day, at which level it remains constant for subsequent demand
increases. This reflects the mobility of the Philippines rural labor force,
and indicates that large numbers of laborers would be attracted to the
project area from surrounding areas at that market wage.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
7.        It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three straight
line segments. Three points determine the position of the curve. Point A
represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor which is estimated to
be F 2 per man-day, equal to P 1.5 as the economic value of alternative
employment (casual non-farm labor, fishing, house repairs, etc.) plus P 0.5
to supply the additional food requirements of more strenuous farm work with
the project. Point B indicates that at full employment of rural labor the
opportunity cost would equal the market wage of F 6 per man-day. The hori-
zontal segment to the right of Point C indicates that at F 7 per man-day as
many laborers as needed would be available for farm work in the project
area.
8.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. With the project, it
varies from F 2.3 per man-day in a month of high unemployment to P 5.3 per
man-day in the month of May. The total economic cost of farm labor is then
the area under the curve up to the level of employment. Computed this way,
the future economic cost of farm labor would be P 10.2 million with the
project at full development and P 5.9 million without the project, or an
incremental cost of F 4.3 million. This would be equivalent to pricing the
incremental employment of 1.2 million man-days per year at a shadow wage
rate of f 3.3 per man-day. The corresponding shadow wage rate for the total
labor demand of 3.7 million man-days at full development would be P 2.8 per
man-day.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
C
7.0  -
6.0 _
6 4.0
C)
C
o    4.0
<    2.0
o    30
0.1                   0.2                   0.3                   0-4                    0.5                    0.6                   0.7
F-ARM ILABOR DEMAND (Million Man-Days/Month)
VVorld Bank--15379






PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 man-days)-
Area    Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July    u    Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec               Total
(ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   P    7,500    45                                   -     143   180    150    60    82    90             750
W    7,500    -       -     -      -     -       -      128   165    150    82    90    98            713
W   19,700   315   158    -        -     -       -       39    99    256   453   414   236          1,970
Rainfed Rice      P   12,200   171   146    -        -      -       -     146   146    207   147   147   110           1,220
W   12,200   171   122    -        -     -       -      122   159    183   158   183    61          1,159
W 
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   P    5,300    -        74    96   111    74        48     74    53       -      -     -      -          530
W    5,300    74    95   122    48    42         64      58    -       -      -      -     -          503
W   17,000    -       -     85   408   493    204    289   221         -      -      -     -        1,700
Total                P   25,000   216   220    96   111    74          48    363   379    357   207   229   200           2,500
W   25,000   245   217   122    48    42         64    308   324    333   240   273   159           2,375
W   36,700   315   158    85   408   493    204    328   320    256   453   414   236               3,670
1/ P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project.
(HD 
-3



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   Ma   June  July   Aug  Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec    Total
Labor.Requirement              WI    0.31  0.16  0.09  0.41  0.49  0.20  0.33  0.32  0.26  0.45  0.41  0.24          3.67
(Million man-days)           W     0.25  0.22  0.12  0.05  0.04  0.06  0.31  0.32  0.33  0.24  0.27- 0.16          2.37
Marginal Opportunity Cost      W      3.3   2.6   2.3   4.4   5.3   2.7   3.5   3.4   2.9   4.8   4.4   2.9
(P/man-day)                  W     2.9   2.8   2.4   2.2   2.1   2.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   2.9   3.0   2.6
Average Economic Cost of       W      2.6   2.5   2.2   2.9   3.3   2.5   2.7   2.5   2.3   3.1   2.9   2.5          2.8
Farm Labor (P/man-day)       W      2.4   2.3   2.5   2.0   2.5   2.0   2.6   2.5   2.7   2.5   2.6   2.5          2.5
Economic Cost of Farm Labor   W       0.8   0.4   0.2   1.2   1.6   0.5   0.9   0.8   0.6   1.4   1.2   0.6         10.2
(P Million)                  W     0.6   0.5   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.6   0.7   0.4           5.9
Incremental Economic Cost of
Farm Labor (P Million)    W-W      0.2  -0.1  -0.1   1.1   1.5   0.4   0.1   0    -0.3   0.8   0.5   0.2           4.3
1/ W = Future with project.
W = Future without proiect.
acr
-J



ANNEX 18
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
:;41CO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
'ost and Benefit Recovery
1.        This Annex examines the implications for public revenues and
prcject beneficiary incomes of proposed water charges for the Chico project
equal to those in the Bank-assisted Central Luzon and           pr^t  rojects.  In
determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of water charges
to benefits, three indices have been used which are defined as follows for
the present project:
(a)  Ccst Recovery Index:  the ratio of incremental water charges
paid by all project beneficiaries to incremental project
construction and operation and maintenance costs.
(b)  Benefit Recovery Index:  the ratio of incremental water
charges paid by a typical farm family to incremental income
accruing to the family before paying water charges.
The Benefit Recovery Index as defined above gives no feeling for how much
of the incremental income due to the project it would be feasible or
equitable to recover, since it ignores the value of family labor, manage-
ment costs and uncertainty associated with farmers' effort to achieve
these incomes. Therefore the analysis also considers the
(c)  Rent Recovery Index:  the ratio of incremental water charges
paid by a typical farm family to incremental "project rent"
accruing to the family before paying water charges, where
"project rent" is defined as incremental income as in (b)
less the value of family labor, management costs and allowances
for uncertainty.
The upper limit of the Rent Recovery Index is 100% but it would normally
be less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives
and costs of collecting taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure
i. practice, but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative
estimates of its various comnponents based on qualitative considerations.
2.        All water charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the 50 year life of
the project and in terms of 1976 constant prices. Costs represent finan-
cial flows from the public sector and are net of taxes and other trans-
fer payments. It is assumed that there would be no incremental payments
of general taxes due to the project.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
3.        Construction costs charged to Stage I in the cost recovery
analysis amount to US$34.0 million. They exclude 50% of diversion dam
costs (US$4.6 million) which are attributed to the proposed power project
and US$12.6 million representing the proportion of diversion dam and
main canal costs which are allocated to the proposed Stage II. The present
value of the remaining construction and O&M costs, discounted at 10%, is
F 189 million. Water charges would be the equivalent of 3.5 cavans of
paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season. This would be
equivalent to P 215 and P 270/ha in the wet and dry seasons, respectively,
at the forecast farm gate price for paddy (Annex 15), or a weighted average
of P 445/ha for a cropping intensity of'186%. Such a rate would be reached
gradually over a period of five years from completion of construction.
At a discount rate of 10% the present value of such a charge on the entire
project area over the 50-year life of the project would be P 54 million,
indicating a cost recovery index of about 29%.
4.        As in the farm budget analysis (Annex 16), two representatives
farm sizes of 2.0 and 4.0 ha are considered for benefit and rent recovery
analysis. Only the case of farms now under rainfed conditions is analyzed.
Such farms represent about two-thirds of all project beneficiaries, and it
would be impracticable to levy and collect different water charges in the
future on the basis of whether farms are now rainfed or served by gravity
or pump irrigation. Because the irrigated farms presently enjoy a higher
income level than the rainfed farms, their incremental income under the
project would be smaller and consequently the benefit and rent recovery
indices on these farms would be higher than the levels indicated below.
5.        As shown in Table 1, incremental net farm income from the
project at full development, before water charges and payments for land,
would be P 8,810 for the 2.0 ha farm model and P 16,050 for the 4.0 ha
model. Water charges of P 445/ha (para 3) would give a benefit ratio
of 10-11%. In computing project rent, incremental family labor was
valued at full market price of P 6.0/man-day (Annex 17). The value of farm
management was assumed to be 15% of incremental net farm income at full
development for the 2.0 ha farm and 25% for the 4.0 ha farm to reflect the
greater management needs of the larger farm. An uncertainty allowance of
20% of incremental net farm income was assumed for both models. The
resulting rent recovery indices are 20% for the 2.0 ha farm and 24% for the
4.0 ha farm, indicating the slightly progressive effect of uniform water
charges in the face of higher imputed farm management costs for larger
farms.
6.        Table 2 summarizes the numerical results.  The proposed water
charges give a cost recovery index of 29%, benefit recovery indices around
10% and slightly progressive rent recovery indices in the 20% range. These
indices are low (for comparison, the cost recovery index for the Magat
project was 34% and the benefit recovery index was in the 12%-17% range)



ANNEX 18
Page 3
for two major reasons. First, since Chico Stage I is primarily a new
project with little rehabilitation, the cost per ha is high and water
charges the same as in the previous projects would therefore give a lower
recovery index. Secondly, since farmers in the Chico project area are now
poorer than beneficiaries under other Bank-assisted NIA systems before
project improvements, their incremental incomes and project rents would be
larger and therefore, with the same water charges, the recovery indices
would again be lower. The question therefore is whether higher rates
should be charged for Chico in view of these facts.
7.        For the following reasons it would not be practicable or desirable
to recommend higher rates for the Chico Stage I project at this time.
(a) After construction, when the water charges would become
effective, the Chico area would be operated as part of the
Magat system. It would be difficult to levy and collect
different rates from beneficiaries under such conditions.
Furthermore, at full development of both projects, including
proposed Stage II storage and full double cropping, incomes
of all farmers on similar size farms would be identical.
It would be unfair to charge the original Chico farmers
more than their Magat counterparts solely because they
were poorer to begin with;
(b) Although the Government has recently increased the water
charges on all national irrigation systems, and has agreed
to even higher rates on Bank-assisted projects, there has
not yet been any experience with collecting these rates.
While the overall collection rate has shown a marked improve-
ment from 50% of fees charged in FY1969 to 66% in FY1974, there
is still much room for improvement. In conjunction with the
Magat project, the Government has recently agreed to discuss
with the Bank ways of improving collection of water charges,
based on the results of the National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Study (NISIS) financed under the Tarlac project.
For the present, it would be more appropriate to continue
this emphasis on improving collections rather than insist
on higher levies; and
(c) The question of water charges is part of the much
broader issue of overall tax, subsidy and pricing policy
both within agriculture and between agriculture and other
sectors, and should be viewed in a broader sectoral or
national economic context.
For the foregoing reasons, the proposed water charges, although implying
low cost, benefit and rent recovery indices in the case of the Chico
Stage I project are acceptable.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: Stage I
Benefit and Rent Recovery
(1)            (2)            (3)             (4)            (5)           (6)          (7)           (8)
Size of    Incremental   Incremental  Incremental    Uncertainty    Project   Incremental   Benefit                   Rent
Size Distribution of                   Model        Net Farm    Family Labor  Farm Manage-   Allowance 3/    Rent               Water         Recovery    Recovery
Holdings in Proiect Area                Farm        Income          cost  I/    ment Cost 2/                                    Charges 4/  Index  5/    Index 5/
(1)- [(2)+                 (6) +  (1)   (6)- (3)
Size      Number         % of Area                                                                                   (3)  ](4)J
(ha)                       (%)            (ha)         ---------------------------------(Pesos) -----------------------------(%) (M)
0-3       6,312           57              2.0          8,810          1,350           1,320           1,760         4,380           890           10            20
3 and over  1,738            43              4.o         16,050          1,430           4,010            3,210        7,400         1,770           11            24
1/ At full market price of P 6.0/man-day.
2/ 15% of incremental net farm income at full development for the 2.0 ha model and 25% for the 4.0 ha model.
3/ 20% of incremental net farm income.
4/ P215/ha in the wet season and P270/ha in the dry season with a cropping intensity of 186%.
5/ It is assumed that incremental farm incomes, project rent and water charges would build up to full development
levels with similar time streams and would remain at full development levels for the life of the project so that the
ratios at full development would equal the ratios of discounted present values.
H3
a m
(D.
- nm~



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost and Benefit Recovery Summary
Cost         Benefit          Rent              Average Per Capita Income  1/
Size of         Recovery        Recovery        Recovery           Present           With the
Model Farm         Index           Index           Index                               Project
(ha)    ---(%)                                                        ----- (US$)----------
2.0           )  29              10              18                 30                 220
4.0            )                 11              22                 50                 390
GNP per capita (1974): US$300
absolute poverty level (1974): US$140 2/
1/ Net value of production after water charges and payments for land, rounded to nearest US$10
2/ IBRD estimate
coH
CD~



ANNEX 19
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis
Stage I
1.         The following assumptions were made in evaluating the Stage I
economic rate of return:
(a) Benefits - The expected paddy yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for labor
costs) and labor requirements per ha are shown in Annex 16.
Chart 9536(R) shows the proposed cropping calendar. Annex 15
gives the calculations for the farm gate prices of paddy,
which are based on the Bank's world market price projections
for milled rice. Table 1 shows the expected project benefits
at full agricultural development of Stage I.
(b) Foreign Exchange - Because of import taxes and quantitative
restrictions, the official exchange rate understates the value
to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out the
project and saved by reducing rice imports. In the absence
of detailed information needed to compute specific conversion
factors and using the Squire-van der Tak approach 1/, the
estimated standard conversion factor (SCF) for the Philippines
was about 0.905 for the three years 1972-74. This ratio
implies a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = i 8.30, which
was used in the economic analysis.
(c)  Investment Costs - The total investment cost, expressed in
mid-1976 prices, is US$48.2 million. This includes US$9.2
million to size the main canals so that they can serve the
proposed Stage II. Annual O&M costs of US$16 per ha include
the incremental cost of the Water Management Technologists.
All costs include physical contingencies but exclude costs
due to price increases.
(d) Development Period - According to the project implementation
schedule, the Chico West section (2,000 ha) would be completed
in mid-1978 and the 1978-79 wet season crop (harvested in 1979)
would be the first crop grown here under improved conditions;
the Quezon-Mallig (10,100 ha) and the Tuga Gobgob (1,250 ha)
1/   L. Squire and H. G. van der Tak; Economic Analysis of Projects;
Baltimore and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
sections would be completed in mid-1980 and the 1980-81 wet
season crop would be the first crop under improved conditions;
and the Tabuk (3,400 ha) and Agbannawag (2,950 ha) sections
would be completed at the end of 1980 with the 1981 dry season
crop the first crop under improved conditions. Beginning with
the first crop grown under upgraded conditions, farmers
would achieve the projected yield levels over five years in
equal installments. Stage I would reach full development in
1986.
(2) Labor Pricing - Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage
rate, which varies seasonaly and averages P 2.8 per man-day
over the year under "with" project conditions at full devel-
opment, compared to a full employment market wage of P 6.0
per man-day. Annex 17 presents a detailed analysis. The use
of unskilled labor in construction and development works
is limited and all labor employed in such works is valued
at the market wage rate.
2.         Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting Stage I benefits
and costs over 50 years, the economic rate of return is 15% (Table 4).
Sensitivity Analysis
3.         Sensitivity of the rate of return was tested to cost overruns;
reduction and delays in benefits; a higher opportunity cost of farm labor;
a 25% increase in the world market rice price; and the allocation of a
portion of the capital cost to Stage II. The effects of these changes
in assumptions were as follows:
Alternative                    Rate of Return
(a) A two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits because of construction
slowdowns.                                           14
(b)  A 20% increase in construction costs.                13
(c) A combination of a two-year delay in
reaching full project benefits and a
20% cost overrun.                                   12
(d) A 25% decrease in project benefits
because farmers failed to attain projected
yields and/or cropping intensity.                    12
(e) The valuing of farm labor at the market wage
rate of P 6 per man-day throughout the
year.                                                15



ANNEX 19
Page 3
Alternative                  Rate of Return
(f)  A 25% increase in the world market rice
price.                                           19
(g)  The allocation of 50% of diversion weir costs
to power project,the remaining weir costs
shared between Stages I and II on a service
area basis and US$9.2 million of main canal
costs to Stage II.                               21
(h) The valuing of foreign exchange costs and
returns at the official exchange rate            14
Costs to Borrower of Delays in Project Implementation
4.        Two costs to the Government, resulting from delays in imple-
menting Stage I Irrigation, have been calculated. One cost is a reduction
in the real net benefits that could be attained from the project; the
other, a reduction in the real grant element in the Bank's loan.
5.        The loss in net benefits has been calculated using a 12%
discount rate by comparing the discounted time-stream of Stage I net
benefits with two other similarly discounted time-streams where:
(a)  the original time-stream is delayed by two years (that
is, a two-year delay before implementation begins); and
(b)  the project proceeds as planned for two years, followed
by a two-year delay during which net benefits if any
(benefits minus O&M costs) remain stationary, after which
the project proceeds as originally planned.
6.        The calculations show that the project, in mid-1976 prices, is
worth US$8.14 million if the loan is committed in mid-1976.
(a)  With a two year initiation delay the project is worth
US$6.08 million, a US$2.06 million delay-cost, which is
25% of the project's original net present value in real
terms.
(b)  With a two-year delay after two years of project imple-
mentation, Stage I is worth US$5.62 million, a US$2.52
million delay-cost, which is some 30% of the project's
original net present value in real terms.
7.        The difference between the grant element in a Bank Loan and the
commitment charges is a financial benefit to the Government. If the
grant element is around 10% for a Bank Loan at 8.5% interest, with a
25 year term and seven year grace period, the discounted real present
value of the grant element less the commitment charges is US$1.25 million.



ANNEX 19
Page 4
With a two year delay in project initiation, this is reduced to US$0.65
million, while a two year delay after two years of implementation reduces
the financial benefit to US$0.69 million. The cost to the Philippines,
because of delayed Bank disbursements, is US$0.60 million in the first
case and US$0.56 million in the second.
8.        Adding these two types of losses together, the total cost to the
Philippines of a two year delay at the commencement of Stage I Irrigation
is US$2.66 million. The cost of a two-year delay after two years of
implementation is US$3.08 million.
Stage II
9.        Construction of the project's proposed Stage II is dependent on
the building of a dam for hydro-power generation on the Chico river. Stage
II's size and construction timing has yet to be finally determined. A pre-
liminarily economic evaluation was nevertheless carried out, using the
following assumptions:
(a) Project Features - Stage II construction consists of the
necessary main connecting canals, structures, and irrigation
service area facilities for an additional 29,300 ha. The
service area includes the following four different sections,
separated by ridges or small hills; Magsaysay (8,600 ha),
Liwan-Gadu (8,500 ha), Enrile (3,200 ha), and the Chico East
(9,000 ha). Construction would commence in 1980 and be
completed in 1984.
(b) Benefits - Stage II would irrigate an additional 29,300 ha of
rice in the wet season, and 28,000 ha in the dry season. The
cropping pattern, cropping calendar, expected paddy yields,
prices, gross returns, production costs, net costs, and labor
requirements per ha used for Stage II are the same as those
for Stage I. Table 2 shows the areas cropped and expected
benefits at full agricultural development.
(c)  Foreign Exchange - Foreign exchange costs and earnings are con-
verted to local currency equivalents at a shadow exchange rate
of US$1.00 = P 8.30 as for Stage I.
(d)  Investment Costs - The total investment cost, calculated in
mid-1976 prices, included in the analysis is US$57.1 million.
Annual O& M costs of US$16 per ha include the incremental
cost of the Water Management Technologists. All cost figures
include physical contingencies, but exclude price increases
because of inflation.
(e)  Development Period - The four service areas would be developed
more or less simultaneously. The Chico East section would
be completed in mid-1983, and the 1983-84 wet season crop



ANNEX 19
Page 5
would be the first crop grown under improved conditions. As
storage water from the power dam would not be available until
1985, this would be the first year in which an improved dry
season crop could be grown. The other three sections would
be completed in 1984, and the 1985 dry season crop would be
the first crop grown under upgraded conditions. Farmers would
achieve the projected yield levels over five years in equal
installments. Stage II would reach full development in 1990.
(f) Labor Pricing - Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage rate,
which varies seasonably and averages P 3.1 per man-day over the
year under "with" project conditions at full development,
compared to a full employment wage of P 6.0 per man-day. This
shadow wage rate is slightly larger than that used in the Stage I
calculations because the Stage II cropping intensity is
a little higher than Stage I's (196% versus 186%). The
use of unskilled labor in construction and development
works is limited, and all labor employed in such works
was valued at the market wage rate.
10.       Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting benefits and
costs over 50 years, the economic rate of return would be 20% (Table 5).
Sensitivity Analysis
11.       Although Stage II design has yet to be finalized, sensitivity
of the rate of return as calculated under the foregoing assumptions was
tested to cost overruns; reductions and delays in benefits; and a higher
world market rice price. The results were as follows:
Alternative                         Rate of Return
(a) A two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits because of construction
slowdowns.                                        19
(b)  A 20% increase in construction costs              18
(c)  A 25% decrease in project benefits                16
(d) A 25% increase in the world market
rice price                                        24
(e) Foreign exchange costs and returns
valued at the official exchange rate              24



ANNEX 19
Page 6
Stages I and II
12.       Using the assumptions listed for Stages I and II, and discounting
their benefits and costs over 50 years, the combined economic rate of return
is 17% (Tables 3 and 6). If Stage II implementation is delayed by two years,
the entire project's rate of return falls only 0.3%. A 20% cost increase,
however, depresses the rate of return to 15%.
13.       While the storage dam on the Chico river would be constructed
expressly to generate hydro-power, around US$15 million of the dam's cost
could be charged against irrigation, and the irrigation development would
still have a 15% economic rate of return. However, up to US$60 million of
the dam's cost could be allocated to irrigation if a 12% rate of return is
acceptable for the irrigation component.
14.       The economic rate of return of the Chico 4 power project will
be determined in the feasibility study to be prepared by NPC with consultant
assistance, as costs are firmed up and details of the power market and the
project implementation schedule are worked out. However, the preliminary
studies carried out by NPC show that the Chico 4 project,would be economic-
ally viable on a power only basis.



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Stage I
Paddy     Farm Gate    Gross Value of    Production    Net Value of   Net Returns from
Area    Yield       Price        Production          Cost 1       Production      Project Area
(a)   (ton/ha)    (P/ton)       --------___ --- (P/ha) --          ----            (P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice     Wi-"  7,500      2.6        1,350          3,510              880          2,630               19.7
W    19,700     4.0        1,350           5,400            1,390         4,010                79.0
Painfed Rice       W    12,200      1.7        1,350          2,295              505          1,790                21.8
w      -         -
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice     W     5,300      3.1        1,350          4,185              975          3,210               17.0
w    17,000     4.0        1,350           5,400            1,380         4,020                68.3
TOTAL
w    25,000
36,700
-  --(  million)----
Total Net Value of Production
1/  From Annex 16, Table 1                      Before Costing Labor              58.5            147.3
W = Future with project
W = Future without project                  Less Imputed L.,bor Cost  /        5.9             10.2
3/  From Annex 17, Table 2
L/  Adjusted by P 0.7 million                   Total Net Value of Prod.          51.9            137.1
for irrigation pumping costs.
Net Incremental Value of
Production at Full Project
Development.                                      85.2
I- 



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Stage II
Paddy.    Farm Gate   Gross Value      ProductiQn   Net Value of   Net Returns from
Area    Yield       Price      of Production      Costs L/    Production       Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)    (P/ton)    -------------- (P/ha) ---------------           (P  million) --
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice          6,500     2.6        1,350         3,510            880           2,630             17.1
W    29,300     4.0        1,350          5,400         1,390           4,010            117.5
Rainfed Rice     W    22,800      1.7        1,350         2,295            505           1,790             40.8
W       -         _          _
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   W      2,700     3.1        1,350         4,185            975           3,210              8.7
W    28,000     4.0        1,350          5,400         1,380           4,020            112.6
Total              W    32,000
W    57,300
1/ See footnotes Table 1                                                            W _      W
2/   "      "                                                                     -(P million)-
3/  ",    "1         ""
h/  Adjusted by P 0.7 million (rounded)         Total Net Value of Production
for irrigation pumping costs,                  before costing labor           66.6    230.1
Less Imputed Labor Cost 3/        7.8      17.5
Total Net Value of Production 4/ 58.1    212.6
Net Incremental Value of Pro-
duction at Full Project Development        154.5
r1X
'.>d



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Stages I and Stage II
Paddy     Farm Gate    Gross Value    Productiqn   Net Value of   Net Returns from
Area     Yield        Price      of Production      Costslf      Production       Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)    (P/ton)    --(P/ha) -------------------   -(P Million) ---
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   W-  14,000       2.6         1,350           3,510           880          2,630              36.8
W   49,000      4.0         1,350           5,400         1,390          4,010             196.5
Rainfed Rice      W   35,000      1.7         1,350           2,295           505          1,790              62.7
w
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   W    8,000       3.1         1,350           4,185           975          3,210              25.7
W   45,000      4.0         1,350           5,400         1,380          4,020             180.9
Total               W   57,000
W   94,000
1/  See footnotes Table 1.                                                                                   W        W
2/          "           "" "                                                                                -(P million)-
4/  Adjusted by P 1.4 million for                 Total net value of production before costing labor    125.2   377.4
irrigation pumping costs.                    Less Imputed Labor Cost 3/                                 13.3    26.5
Total Net Value of Production 4/                          110.5   350.9
Net Incremental Value of Production at Full Project
Development                                                   240.4
r3 E
'0 Z



.ANNEX 1 
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs and Benefits: Stage I
(US$ Million)
Project Costs               Incremental
Year                    Capital     _ &J    Total      Project Benefits
1          (1976)      0.7         0      0.7                 0
2          (1977)      2.0         0      2.0                 0
3          (1978)     15.8         D    15.8                  0
4          (1979)     18.2       0.1    18.3                0.5
5          (1980)     11.5       0.1    11.6               0.6
6          (1981)      0         0.2      0.2               5.8
7          (1982)      0         0.4      0.4               7.3
8          (1983)      0         0.4      0.4               8.3
9          (1984)      0         0.4      0.4.              9.2
10          (1985)      0         0.4      0.4              10.1
11-50   (1986-2025)        0         0.4     0.4              10.3
Economic Rate of Return                                        15%



ANNEX 19
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs and Benefits: Stage II
(US$ Million)
Project Costs                Incremental
Year                    Capital    O&M    Total          Proj ect Benefits
1          (1976)         0         0        0                 0
2          (1977)         0         0        0                 0
3          (1978)         0         0        0                 0
4          (1979)         0         0        0                 0
5          (1980)         2.7       0        2.7               0
6          (1981)        13.6       0       13.6               0
7          (1982)        13.6       0       13.6               0
8          (1983)        13.6       0       13.6               0
9          (1984)        13.6    0.2        13.8               0.9
10          (1985)         0       0.2        0.2              10.6
11          (1986)         0       0.5        0.5              13.8
12          (1984)        O0       0.5        0.5              15.3
13          (1988)         0       0.5        0.5              16.7
14          (1989)         0       0.5        0.5              18.0
15-50   (1990-2025)           0      0.5         0.5              18.6
Economic Rate of Return                                           20%



ANNEX 19.
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs and Benefits: Stage I & Stage II
(US$ Million)
Project Costs               Incremental
Year                    Capital    O&M    Total         Proj ect Benefits
1          (1976)        0.7      0        0.7               0
2          (1977)        2.0      0        2.0               0
3          (1978)       15.8      0       15.8               0
4          (1979)       18.2      0.1    18,3                0.6
5          (1980)       14.2      0.1    14.3                0.6
6          (1981)       13.6      0.2    13.8                5.8
7          (1982)       13.6      0.4    14.0                7.3
8          (1983)       13.6      0.4    14.0                8.1
9          (1984)       13.6      0.5    14.1               10.2
10          (1985)        0        0.5      0.5              20.9
11          (1986)        0        0.8      0.8              24.1
12          (1987)        0        0.8      0.8              25.5
13          (1988)        0        0.8      0.8              27.3
14          (1989)        0        0.8      0.8              28.4
15-50   (1990-2025)         0        0.8      0.8              29.0
Economic Rate of Return                                        17%



ANNEX 20
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
SCHEDULE OF EARLY EVENTS
Responsible       Target
ActDivity                                           _Agency            Date
A.  Irrigation Development:  Stage I                                NIA
1.  First civil works contract (ICB)
(a)  Complete detailed engineering design, tender
documents, prequalification and advertise                          April, 1977
(b)  Evaluate bids and awzard contract                                   Oct.,  1977
(c)  Start construction                                                  Jan.,  1978
2.  First force account construction
(a) Complete tender documents for force account
equipment and advertise (ICB)                                       July,  1976
(b)  Evaluete bids and award contracts                                   Sept,  1976
(c)  Receive construction equipment                                      March, 1977
(d)  Complete detailed engineering design and
specifications.                                                     April, 1977
(e)  Start construction                                                  April, 1977
B. Provincial Road Improvement                                       DPH
1.  Complete detailed engineering design, tender
documents, precualification and advertise (ICB)                       -Junte,  1976
2.  Complete right-of-way accuisition                                        Aug.,  1976
3.  Evaluate bids and award civil works contracts                            Sept,  1976
4.  Start construction                                                       Jan.,  1977
.Erosion  ontrol Stud-
1.  Select consultant and finali7e TOR                                       June,  1976
2.  Initiate erosion control assessment                                      July,  1976
3.  Start aerial photography                                                 Jan.,  1977
D. Input-Cutout Monitoring                                          NIA
1.  Select consultants and finalize TOR?                                     June,  1976
2.  Initiate monitoring program                                              July,  1976
E. Feasibility Study, Stage II Irrigation                           NIA
1.  Initiate detailed mapping and data collection                            Jan.,  1977
2.  Initiate engineering studies, plan formulation
and ccordinaticn with Chico h dam feasibility
study.                                                                   April, 1977



PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Implementation Schedule
WIORK ITEM                                                      1976              _                       1977  WET SEASON                          1978 WET SEASON                             1979 WET SEASON                           1980 WIET SEASON
J                    __VIAN ETJ SON        IF           AMi J                    o                  N ITAIM   JF     A  S  O~IN   RJ   NF M A    iJ      A  'S,0                                                    
BOARD PRESENTATION 
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT 
Ch-o  V-al Area 2,000 h a) - rorc ocoo                                                                              I.-
Ch- , -- D..o -oo   VM- C-lL       ......oc ~1 1
I    .-  - 0j Ig A-  1,0                                                                                                                                        -  -  -  -  - I-                    1]-IIIE                       -t{        II         IiI2ItWtI   
Prepare. IN. Ioe -drmet arbIk A- uV3,400thOr
|Az- , A-l V Area 1150.1 ha) l                                                                                          I
PROVINCIAL llDAD IMPRUVEMENT                                                          i
La-d -q irirro
T,00d, p-rrol
Evalarro  -rd -ward
|Contract sr,nrng anad mobil izealoll|  | || || tIII III,11IIIi      I
EROSION CONTROL STUDY                                                                            U  I  *  I |      I   i                                                I                             II
INPUT- OUTPUT MONITORING                                                       iL    1             E                                                                     I                             ::.:=  ::=i=                                                    t1:
World Ba-k-15355






PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
NIA Organization for Special Projects
NIA BOARD
CONSTUCTIO  MANAEMENTDIVADARMERIASSITANC
ASSANDATTRAIN.STDITO
Ir=
SPECIAL PROJECTS          
I-I
17
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                                  AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
^   PLAN191N  AND DESIG_DlVISiON_  _______                          GATROUNDWTER PNADUMP      DI.
n CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT DIV | ~~FARMERS ASSiSTANCE
LA                   M        I.                                                   _AND TRAIN. DIV.
uL
-J
CENUTRAL PUZON PROJECTS                                                    IRRIGAT _ TrP Proe
_   ANGAT-MAGATTINTEGRATEDD
5   AGRICU! TURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         __MGTULIRPS
DAVAO DEL NORTECHCRIEIRIAONPJCT
INTEGRATED IRRIGAT(O RJC _ HC IE RIAION PROJECT:
(DNIIP)                                                                  STAGE I
(8) Includes Upper Pampanga, Aurora-Penara-ida &Tarlac Projects
lorld Bank-9533(2R)






PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Organization for Implementation (1977-1980)
NIA BOARD
_I
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR   l
FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS
I
PROJECT MANAGER
(MRMP)
L       ENGINEERING             -                                 EQUIPMENT
AGRICULTURE        I                                  ADMINISTRATIVE
ASST. PROJECT MANAGER                                  ASST. PROJECT MANAGER                                 ASST. PROJECT MANAGER
(MRMP)                                                (MRMP)                                                (CHICO)
DIVERSION WORKS                IRRIGATION WORKS
World Bank- 15356






PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
SPECIAL PROJECT-S
j   P ROJEC T      Z
MANAGER
(MR MP'
LEQ I ZPM, EIN T                 DGIUL iAL VRINIONlRIS DM O                                ADMINISTRAT
DGIVISION                           DIVISINT              D1iViSIGNj                        DIVISIONj
DISTRICT 1                                DISTRICT 2 VDISTRICT 3                                                            DISTRICT 4
SANTIAGCI                                SAN MATEO        '                           ROXAS                                   CflCO
~21,600 Ha)                       _        33,000 Ha)                               ( 20,400 Ha)                              970Ha)
!   ZO NE       ,ZCO                                         __ZNE                       ZONEE 
SUPERINTENDENT -                           SUPERINTENDENT                           TSUPERINTENDENT                          SUPERINTENDENT-'
1 2)                                FS          ;3)    _                                  2) Z                                   (2)
TECHNOLOGtST                              TECH-NOLOGIST                             TECHNOLOGIST                           TECHNOLOGIST
13                                      1(66                                       (41_                                   140I
DiTCHTENDERS                              DITCiTENDENS                               DITCHTENDERS                           DITCHTENDERS__
(216)        1                             33W)                                     12041                         |I2GZ
-Pe-sunnel requ,rnme,ts sho-i mf parentheses
World Baek-9535IR~






PHILIPPINES
CHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J      F      M      A      M      J      J      A       S      0      N      D
SystemIC
Maintenance
Wet Season               I                                                            _
Rice                      I      
(19,700 Ha.)                    I
HI                                                                   H
I      I
jN
Dry SeasonI                     I
Rice                     I      I
(17,000 Ha.)I                   I
II                      ~~~~~~H
300 --                -      --                           -      --
300~~~~~~~ l  l ~~~~~~~284                                            .
250-                                              3                     3
Notation:21
C: Cultivation    E 200u
E
N: Nursery 
T: Tr-ansplanting                                                      i~
M: Management                                                                                                    Typhoon
H: Harvest13                                                                                                     Frqec
100-
62                    6
29     22           iiKiKiK
J      F      M      A      M       J      J     A       S      0      N      0
VVorld Bank-9536(R)






120°C                            1220                      |                                            121030>  ¾
Laosq                        APart                                                /
80                     1 g iJ#LZNSADlF,)>/>2<t 1( |
8                                        /~~~~~~8
Sigon       I       /' t,       TZjyao ABR                                    ' (/\-5E9LLh
An  r_                    - Z4  1    UUEU                           's         .25        1§KF?1?i5
SanIL    SI    /   10ANINJ    _                                            (2                                 / AE         /           8    fEnbac
0005 /, '  10  0ABELA            -'-^~~   'r' /' >>             |    i               <00    /,
r , Bnk AAst_1CenrlLzn1 UV CJA                                        ,'gi \T ,---\  if~'P
S-   17,,-d.   /
''  PHILIPPINES1                                                                                     IP
w   '/15       ~L220t,ISLATS
PROVINCE NAMES                              /                                 sr Ci   EA/T
m    051             'IlcrigoSVt=>rvmr   21  LOGOVSITE                  /       ,!>')     "¢ o, I)'3                                 
'93         1 tNultipu  # P    23  LOC SSUR                                            )        '
Mrqtlua b nlo  K       MOMNTAIN PROVINCE                                                                              D
*IDW0pj3~~~~~~~2 6BN;  'o  -'
V                A,r   LAERL7rd ,MO                                            \X 'tK2g                                                           .EEAAASc
13 CH/4O DAMANO~, S£       AG                           \.  ,                                                  3   1                               SI- GAO  1,0 0
; I '-' ~;; ; X W;KALINGA-APYA
_<                                                                                                     g  2          aliqulan1<  »-"     
211              PH            TEAMP    APAAS                                                               l¶'            I )50 O  sX
2  2  1= -POO   MINISABELA   MRM                                                     ru                                            a
14OPOSED SR    OR 11 0,18150 100                                            5.eo5d.>      .(/ r\           /      tJ9+7{14
12 MNEVAVINCAL  A                                                        DAq'5ToXo4I                V, 
20            104BATAAN N                                                                       1I          \      &"
Baro  |ot  PROPOSrE LTAGr 18  IRULACAN                                              c OV                           -      E R LEA AEA
<       MAGA~~T \UVRSMULTIURPSE  PR)JC STG"'MRP}MRS/                                                 >MRjAIN/                              ._o
_            EXISTING ProEectsN PAMPANDA                                 A    N    D 1         0
_13' PE-pIS RIN  PrN-t         IHIGAASIAN               -17-30'                                                                                                                               1 _  O30-S'
ILosr,6EI PPHNI 10  GAREC                                                                              '
fi  Acrs-sr_ aco  0010PoEO       I ZAMBOLEI                                          21                                        [7
Loo  R       PROVIN-PH A 20  BATANGAS                                3- )                                            -                  M.           S  P_oc
ProIOT- -1- I             11 CAITE'
P0,      5 1D152\. , It /  \;\+)
ILaML Rice OL                   RI                                                                      A E       I
CLoa 1104    PRt Poect       22Q ROn>
ON.-o1h hEo        o       50     100     15                                                    , i,   .                      2'
KILOMETERS b-\ LOMETE-RZStPE
21008~~~°\^e                                                                    t8OAII/            4                       
12 1°fD '                                                                                    (\1PD                ,'N
-IA-                                                             N                  I                       MoA
CHCO DAM ANcbc,<S>Vcccoco                                                                                                          '         9      ~       "r
PoRERPLANTNC I
PH IL IPP INES
cHICO RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECTPA/V                                                                                                      F
PROPOSESDMAIN CANAL RMPW
PROPOSEDSTORAGE5R 2DVERSION JAMS
PROPOSE MAIN CANALS
X] PROPOSEDSSTAGE I ]RRISGATIONSARSAS                                                                                    c
PROPOSED STASEI I RB GAT1ON AREAS                                                      StMo         MA T RIVE8
MAGAT RIVER MiJET PURPOSE PIROTEST STAGE I IraROPI                               '                        GTO
MAVAT RISERMSILTIP,UPOSE PROTECTSTAGE8iiOMBMPI              ,AAG~AM    OfPRSONE
AVORE.    IR?       DM 
-   EXISTING DIVEOSION DAMS
EXISTING NATIONAL HI.EOAYS                                       '
EXISTINA PROVINCIAL,- GH 505                             '4'           /oXs%D               "' S
EAISTINGA IGHWSAYSTO RE IMPROVED 
PROEISCIAL OOANOARIES
----MENICIPAL BOUNDARIES
180      CR80000 LINES, 180 METER IrNTERVAL                 ~/2',y'
RIOERS
0      5            ~~~           ~~~           ~~~~~~~1.0  15  2
0   5       10       15       20       25
ElILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                          8
- 05
121080                                                                                       9r  21030'o



