CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1227 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Chico River Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
lorce and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an
agency established by the Borrower's Republic Act No. 3601, as
amended by Presidential Decree No. 552; and
(b) "Magat River Multipurpose Project" means the project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank, dated August 7, 1975.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
*) reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project (Parts
Aq C, D and E through NIA and Part B through its Department of
Public Highways or any successor thereto), and shall operate the
facilities included in Part A thereof, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engi-
neering, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NIA to
establish and maintain, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
a special fund from which NIA may draw without restriction to meet
expenditures in respect of the Project except Part B thereof. The
Borrower shall adjust and replenish the amount in such special fund
at monthly intervals to a level at least equivalent to the esti-
mated amount of payments to be made for goods and services required
for the Project, less the estimated amount of payments to be made
directly by the Bank, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to suppliers,
consultants, or contractors during the next two months' period.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall grant or cause to be
granted all water rights required to enable NIA to carry out and
operate Part A of the Project and shall take such action as is
required to ensure that no other rights except for domestic use
are granted which could adversely affect the water supply required
for Part A of the Project.
01


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such ac-
tion as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause NIA: (i) to assign an
Assistant Administrator to serve full-time in NIA's Special Projects
Organization; and (ii) to consult with the Bank before making any
designation to such position before the Project is completed.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish an Agricultural
Development Coordinating Council to coordinate agricultural sup-
porting services in the area covered by the Project and the Magat
River Multipurpose Project, with jurisdiction over the corresponding
part of each of the Provinr'es where these two projects are located.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such Council
shall be constituted, empowered and supported in the same way as
the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council established by
agreement between NIA and other agencies of the Borrower, dated
September 15, 1972, for the purpose of the Upper Pampanga River
Irrigation Project.
Section 3.06. In order to assist NIA in carrying out Parts D
and E of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NIA to employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the general
design standards to be used for the roads included in Part B of
the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end, the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that, ex-
cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to
the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the cieation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after its date. As used in this Section, the term "governmental
assets" means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Bor-
rower including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any insti-
tution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿-9
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of its
political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent that
the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force in
its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrover
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall and shall cause NIA to
maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall and shall cause NIA to: (i) have such
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the roads, other
civil works and facilities included in the Project to be operated


﻿- 10                                      0
and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and financial policies and practices, and shall make available
sufficient funds for such purposes.
(b) Without limitation on its obligations under paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the extent
required, to cause NIA to do, the following:
(i)       to make adequate budgetary provision to operate and
maintain the Project; and
(ii)       except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to take
all necessary action to ensure that charges for
the use of irrigation water are levied and collected
from the users of the Project and that such charges
will provide NIA with revenues sufficient to cover
all operating and maintenance costs of the Project,
and, in addition, to provide for the recovery,
within a reasonable period, on reasonable terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, of the monies
invested in the Project, without impairing the
users' incentives and capacity to pay. The Borrower
shall consult with the Bank, annually, on the
adequacy of water charges and collection thereof.


﻿S                          -11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the special fund referred to in Section 3.02 hereof has
been established; and
(b) NIA shall have designated, after consultation with the
Bank, an Assistant Administrator to serve full-time in NIA's
*       Special Projects Organization.
Section 5.02. The date June 30, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
desigated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) Mobilization          6,500,000          100% of foreign
and equipment                           expenditures
for civil works
construction
(b) Other                34,200,000          (0%
(2) Equipment,                 3,400,000
vehicles and
materials
(a) Direct                                   100% of foreign
imports                                 expenditures
(b) Imported                                 65%
goods pro-
cured locally
(c) Locally                                  100% of ex-
manufactured                             factory cost
goods


﻿-15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Consultants and           1,200,000           100% of foreign
technical assist-                             expenditures or
ance                                          60%
(4) Unallocated                 4,700,000
TOTAL     50,000,000
0


﻿-16                                              0
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the import-
ation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent reuaired to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;


﻿-17-
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the.proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-18                                      0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Irrigation
Upgrading existing irrigation systems and extension of irri-
gation services to rainfed rice lands in the Cagayan Valley of
Northern Luzon, in an area of about 19,700 ha. comprising part
of the Cagayan, Isabela, and Kalinga-Apayao provinces, north of
the Siffu River Irrigation System. Such upgrading and extension
will include the following:
(i)       construction of a diversion dam and intake works
on the Chico River;
(ii)      construction of a catch dam and intake works on
the Talaca Creek;
(iii)     rehabilitation of an irrigation system operated
by NIA and serving about 1,400 ha. and construc-
tion of a drainage system for that area;
(iv)      construction of an irrigation and drainage system
for small local communal systems in areas comprising
in the aggregate about 3,200 ha. and for small pump
irrigation systems comprising in the aggregate
another 3,200 ha. approximately;


﻿-19 -
(v)       extension of an irrigation and drainage system
serving an area of about 11,900 ha. of rainfed
lands; and
(vi)      provision of equipment and vehicles for the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of the above
works.
Part B:   Provincial Roads
Improvement of the following roads:
(i)       Roxas-Gamu, of about 35 km;
(ii)      Cabatuan-Cauayan, of about 11 km; and
(iii)     San Mateo-Alicia, of about 19 km.
Part C:   Feasibility Study
A feasibility study to expand the irrigation system in the
area described in Part A to about 49,000 ha.
Part D:   Erosion Control Study
An erosion control study of the watershed areas abTr- the
Pantabangan Dam (about 84,500 ha.); above the Diayo and Canili Dams
(about 6,400 ha.); and above the proposed storage dam on the Magat
River (about 414,300 ha.). The study will include an assessment of


﻿- 20                                      0
the erosion problems, quantification of the damages to the catch-
ments, evaluation of remedial measures, and a plan of erosion con-
trol measures, including a pattern of land use, to correct existing,
and prevent future, damage.
Part E:   Monitoring
Establishment of a system of monitoring production inputs (so
as to enable timely rectification of any shortfall) and benefits
(including data on crop yields, farm incomes and costs, off-farm
income, farming practices, income of landless laborers) for the
area covered by this Project and the other projects financed in
part with loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and which include
an important irrigation component: i.e., the Upper Pampanga Irri-
gation, Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation, Tarlac Irrigation Systems
Improvement, Rural Development (Mindoro), and Magat River Multi-
purpose Projects.
*         *         *        e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1982                                        55G,000
November 1, 1982                                   575,000
May 1, 1983                                        600,000
November 1, 1983                                   625,000
May 1, 1984                                        650,000
November 1, 1984                                   675,000
May 1, 1985                                        705,000
November 1, 1985                                   735,000
May 1, 1986                                        765,000
November 1, 1986                                   800,000
May 1, 1987                                        835,000
November 1, 1987                                   870,000
May 1, 1988                                        905,000
November 1, 1988                                   945,000
May 1, 1989                                        985,000
November 1, 1989                                 1,025,000
May 1, 1990                                      1,070,000
November 1, 1990                                 1,115,000
May 1, 1991                                      1,165,000
November 1, 1991                                 1,215,000
May 1, 1992                                      1,265,000
November 1, 1992                                 1,320,000
May 1, 1993                                      1,375,000
November 1, 1993                                 1,435,000
May 1, 1994                                      1,495,000
November 1, 1994                                 1,555,000
May 1, 1995                                      1,625,000
November 1, 1995                                 1,690,000
May 1, 1996                                      1,765,000
November 1, 1996                                 1,840,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22-                                     0
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1997                                        1,915,000
November 1, 1997                                   2,000,000
May 1, 1998                                        2,085,000
November 1, 1998                                   2,175,000
May 1, 1999                                        2,265,000
November 1, 1999                                   2,360,000
May 1, 2000                                        2,460,000
November 1, 2000                                   2,565,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with proce-
dures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Roads:
(i)       Prequalification. Bidders shall be prequalified,
and not less than 60 days will be allowed for
submitting prequalification documents.
(ii)      Bidding Sections. Qualified contractors will be
invited to bid for one or more of the three
sections of road included in Part B of the Proj-
ect. Contracts will be awarded either on the
basis of the lowest evaluated bid for each section
or of the lowest aggregate of evaluated bids for
the general sections, whichever is the lower.
(iii)     Non-Philippine contractors. Non-Philippine con-
tractors will not be required to register in the


﻿-25 -
Philippines as a condition of bidding on a contract.
Where said registration is required after award
of the contract, the Borrower shall take all prac-
ticable action to facilitate such registration.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000
may be procured under the Borrower's ordinary procedures, provided
that the aggregate cost of the goods so procured does not exceed
the equivalent of $300,000.
2.   Civil works other than those for the Chico Diversion Dam
and the main diversion canal shall be procured under the Borrower's
ordinary procedures, provided that the aggregate cost of such civil
works carried out by force account shall not, without the prior
consent of the Bank, exceed 40% of the total cost of all civil
works included in the Project not procured pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph A hereof.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;


﻿-26                                       0
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the inform-
ation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿-27 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
*      in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt import  would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in suca group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequal-.
ified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications


﻿- 28-
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequal-
ification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more and to all contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended


﻿-29 -
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other inform-
ation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 30-
SCHEDULE 5
Road Design Standards
Class 2 Roads                            Terrain
Flat        Rolling
Design Speed (km/hr)                     60            50
Pavement Width (m)                      6.10         6.1o
Shoulder Width (m)                      1.50        1.50
Min. Hor. Radius (m)                    120           80
Max. Gradient (%)                         4            6
Stop Sight Distance (m)                  70           6o
Pass Sigh, Distance (m)                350          250
Right-of-Way Width (m)                   20           20
Pavement design:    AASHO Method, using an 8,000 kg single axle
load.


