Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16815
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2126-CA)
June 30, 1997
Transport Group 2
Infrastructure Depairtment
Africa Region
This document has a resitricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1  1989 = CFAF 317
1990 = CFAF 271
1991 = CFAF 283
1992 = CFAF 265
1993 = CFAF 283
1994 = CFAF 553
1995 = CFAF 495
1996 = CFAF 511
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA         Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Adrienne en Afrique et A Madagascar
(Agency for Air Navigation and Safety in Africa and Madagascar)
BARC           Bureau d'Affr8tement Routier Centrafricain (Road Freight Bureau)
CAR            Central African Republic
CCAC           Conseil Centrafricain des Chargeurs (Shippers' Council)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Development Agency)
CFD            Caisse Francaise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
EU             European Union
FR             Fonds Routier (Road Fund)
GTZ            Gesellshaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
CIPTTP         Cellule Interministerielle de Planification des Transports et des Travaux Publics
(Inter-Ministerial Planning Unit)
JICA           Japanese Intemational Cooperation Agency
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOP            Memorandum Of the President
MTAC           Ministere des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile (Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation)
MTPAT          Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
(Ministry of Public Works and Land Development)
ONM            Office National du Materiel (Equipment Pool)
PETROCA        Societe Petroliere de Centrafrique (National Petroleum Company)
TSP            Transport Sector Project
NR             National Road
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SOCATRAF    Societe Centrafricaine de Transports Fluviaux (River Transport Company)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President:             Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director:           David Berk, AFC07
Technical Manager:          Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Task Team Leader:            Jean-Noel Guillossou, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMP],EMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE Nos.
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................................................i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ........................................................1
A.  Introduction .....................................................1
B.  Project Objectives ....................................................2
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................4
D.  Economic Evaluation .....................................................7
E.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................7
F.  Project Sustainability ....................................................8
G.  IDA's Performnance .....................................................8
H.  Borrower's Performance .................................................... 10
I.   Assessment of Project Outcome .................................................... 10
J.   Future Operation .................................................... 11
K.  Key Lessons Learned ....................................................                                                  12
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES .................................................... 13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .................................................... 13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans and IDA  Credits ....................................................                       15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .................................................... 15
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................................. 15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................                 16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................... 17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ....................................................                               19
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................... 20
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................... 20
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................... 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement ....................................................         22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....................................................             26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                             26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................... 27
APPENDIX ....................................................... 28
Appendix:         Borrower contribution to the ICR (English Summary) ....................................................... 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2126-CA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Sector Project in
Central African Republic, for which Credit 2126-CA in the amount of US$62.0 million was
approved on April 24, 1990, and became effective on October 12, 1990.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, the initial closing date. The credit was
fully disbursed by June 12, 1997. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA); the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC),
Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) formerly Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE); the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW); and Gesellschaft fir
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ); the European Union (EU); and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP).
The ICR was prepared by Rosemary M. Cubagee (Consultant), Jean Grosdidier de
Matons (Consultant) and Jean-Noel Guillossou, Transport Group 2, Africa Region (AFTT2), and
reviewed by Ms. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, Technical Manager (AFTT2), and David W.
Berk, Acting Country Director (AFC07).
Political developments in the country prevented the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission from taking place. The ICR is therefore based only on materials in the project file. The
Borrower did not commenit on the draft report or produce its own ICR, but sent substantial
statistical and other information. Other cofinanciers did not comment on the draft report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2126-CA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The project being evaluated is the fifth IDA-financed project in the transportation sector
in Central African Republic. The preceding IDA credits in this sector totaled about US$46.5
million including US$4.5 million for a supplemental Credit for Highways III in 1980.
Project Objectives
2.    At Appraisal. Project objectives differ from one IDA document to the other. Because at
appraisal, the project was built as IDA's participation in an overall transport sector program, the
objectives considered in this ICR are those of the program as stated in the Memorandum of the
President: (a) establish an efficient system of resource allocation to priority sector investments
within acceptable macro-economic parameters in keeping with CAR's limited financial,
institutional and operational capacity; (b) strengthen institutional capacity for adequate planning
and implementation of transport infrastructure investments; (c) enhance operational capacity by
expanding participation of the private sector and local communities in road works; and (d)
initiate a long-term program of environmental protection related to the transport sector. Specific
objectives or actions at agency level were listed in a Letter of Sector Policy adopted by the
Government. The Development Credit Agreement defined project objectives specific to the road
maintenance sector, in which IDA's financing was concentrated.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives in the Letter of Sector Policy, although
ambitious, were in line with the country's structural adjustment program at that time. An
efficient system of resource allocation was a condition of sustaining investments in the sector.
The objective of strengthening the Borrower's capability to adequately program, prepare and
execute investment projects in the transport sector was overly ambitious because of the risk of
institutional weakness. Besiides, it was difficult to monitor and no performance indicator had
been defined in this respect. The objective of developing private sector and local communities
role was realistic and necessary, but a long effort, beyond the time limits of one project, is
necessary to sustainably achieve it. The specific objectives at agency level (improvement of the
management of the Road Fund, privatization of the management of the road maintenance
equipment workshop) were adequately selected as such.
4.    Achievement of Objectives. Overall achievement of objectives set in the sector strategy
was partial in all areas. The main reasons are: political instability resulting in strikes and army
mutinies; shortage of local counterpart funds; delays in co-financing; suspension of disbursement



ii
by major donors; and local cost overruns due to the 1994 CFAF devaluation. Implementation of
road transport policy reform was a major achievement. Positive steps were taken in the direction
of better human resource management in the sector ministries. Although no long-term investment
planning mechanism was established, well-organized donor meetings maintained coherence in
road investments, thus establishing the framework for a more elaborate planning system in the
future. A few medium-sized public works contractors developed while smaller enterprises are
still lacking. The Road Fund was not restructured and the management of the equipment pool
was not commercialized, two major reforms required in the road maintenance sector.
Achievement of other project objectives was also partial: (a) some capacity was developed to
plan investment programs due to the well functioning framework for coordination between the
Government and donors and the sustained efforts of an inter-ministerial unit to make the
Government comply with these objectives; and (b) although a road maintenance strategy was
developed during project preparation, it was not implemented and needs to be updated to balance
availability of resources and maintenance requirements, but still previous investments in the
highway sector were consolidated as stated in the project objectives. No program of
environmental protection in the transport sector was developed.
5.    Assessment of Sustainability. Project sustainability is uncertain, mostly because of the
lack of political stability, which is a factor external to the project. However, even with political
stability, project sustainability would have been hampered by dependence on external financing
for periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation and by insufficient resources for routine
maintenance due to failure to restructure the Road Fund. Sustainability of the framework for
coordination between the Government and donors rests on the inter-ministerial unit set up for the
purpose of the project, which is a fragile arrangement.
6.    Keyfactors which affected achievement of project objectives were political instability,
poor macro-economic performance, default in execution by the Government of the policy reform
agenda to whiche it committed in its letter of sector policy, which may have not been given the
necessary importance in credit conditionality.
7.    IDA  and Borrower Performance. IDA's performance is rated satisfactory for
identification and preparation, marginally satisfactory for appraisal, unsatisfactory for
supervision. Under instructions at the time, IDA made considerable efforts during project
preparation to build a complex project in a country with limited administrative capacity.
However, the intentions formulated in the letter of sector policy were insufficiently translated in
precise commitments, objectives, benchmarks or deadlines. Nor were the necessary supervision
and monitoring tools prepared. Project supervision did not keep up with the preparation effort
although more resources than the average were allocated to it. The policy aspects of the project
were left aside when the execution of the physical aspects of the project started. The change in
task managers resulted in different opinions on the project and lack of continuity in the dialogue
with the Borrower.
8.    The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. This results mostly from the troubled
political situation, which delayed implementation of key reforms in the road maintenance sector.
Changes in staff of sector ministries as well as at the decision-making level in the Government



were too frequent to sustain internalization of the reform process. This had been satisfactory at
the time of project preparation but weakened during project execution and with political changes.
However, physical execution of project items was satisfactory.
9.    Assessment of Outcome. The outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Future Operation. Although the Government had started preparing a new road
maintenance strategy, the restructuring of the Road Fund and the privatization of the
management of the equipment pool at the end of the project execution, these activities were
stopped because of the political situation. Only roads rehabilitated under the project with IDA
financing were maintained to sustain their operation.
11.   Should the political situation become more stable, the grounds laid by the project would
have permitted further donor assistance in a framework combining policy reform, investment
planning and availability of resources. A future project should be held within this framework
established under the first project. The following points provide guidance for the preparation:
(a)   assess and determine what is left of the first Transport Sector Project; then
elaborate a much more sober program aiming at continuing actions under the first
operation which have a chance of success;
(b)    have one set of objectives consistent from one document to another
(c)   include a transport industry component, because the issue of the local industry
not being competitive needs to be examined; transport liberalization will not
survive long if it appears destructive of the local road transport industry;
(d)   examine whelher sector ministries should survive in their present form or whether
they should be much smaller (reform/downsizing), elaborating strategy and
following-up its implementation and leaving actual work to specialized agencies
such as the Road Agency proposed in 1995 in a consultant's study on the Road
Fund;
(e)   move conditions up front: (i) reform of the Road Fund; (ii) reinforcement of
private sector contribution to road maintenance; (iii) improvements in
procurement procedures to allow for the participation of small and middle size
enterprises to do road maintenance; (iv) privatization of the road maintenance
workshop
(f)   prepare adequate follow-up and supervision material before the start of project
implementation;
(g)   link the letter of sector policy to credit conditions and to the work plan for project
execution; and



iv
(h)   ensure full participation of all ministerial departments in the preparation and
execution of the project by building a team composed of the departments and the
interministerial unit.
10.   Key Lessons Learned. Key lessons learned are: (a) the borrower's capacity to absorb
reforms should be estimated more carefully: it is no use to build a project with impressive
objectives if these objectives cannot be achieved; (b) objectives should be limited in number,
simple and consistent, and formulated in similar terms in all documents, and implementation
timetables should be realistic ; (c) special attention should be paid to sustaining internalization
of sector reforms when frequent changes of staff in the administration occur; (d) legal work
should be more substantial in preparation, appraisal, operations and*follow-up; specially with
regard to the relation to be established and maintained, through adequate legal arrangements,
between the strategy letter and the workplan for project execution; (e) supervision
documentation, format of reports, implementation indicators, etc. must be prepared in detail in
advance and remain coherent during the whole duration of project life; (f) complex projects
should have staff with the necessary skills to supervise them adequately; no component should
be introduced in a project unless IDA is sure it would be adequately monitored by a competent
specialist.
12.   Key lessons learned and applicable to projects involving several co-financiers are: (a) co-
financiers do not feel automatically bound by the Government's sectoral policies; (b) the more
co-financiers in a project, the more the risks that their own objectives will disturb project
implementation; (c) enough resources should be allocated for supervision to cover the cost
related to donor coordination, which comes in addition to the regular cost for the supervision of
IDA's own project components; and (d) Borrowers should be more active in arranging and
following up co-financing.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2126-CA)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
13.  In support of the CGovernment's efforts under the structural adjustment program (1986-
1990) to improve agricultural production and exports, and to reduce the cost of domestic and
international trade, the Government of Central African Republic (CAR) requested IDA to help
develop and finance a transport sector project that would strengthen the country's domestic and
international transport system, and rationalize the sector's policy framework. Past IDA financing
in the transport sector had concentrated on reconstruction and maintenance of the main national
and regional road network and training of local staff, but part of this effort was interrupted by a
period of political difficulties, and some of the gains were lost. Under the Fourth Highway
project which was completed in 1987, the last IDA project in the sector at that time, the road
network was substantially rehabilitated, but more needed to be done to shore up CAR's
international transport linkcs, strengthen its road maintenance capacity, improve the rural road
network, and build a durable institutional capacity to successfully plan, finance, execute and
manage transport sector investment and expenditure.
14.   The Transport Sector Project (TSP) was designed to provide a framework for sector
policy making, investment planning and implementation in CAR, in which donors could
coordinate their sector assistance activities, so as to avoid interruptions in donor financing. This
approach which was adopted during the Donor Consultation Meeting held in March 1990,
between the negotiations of the IDA Credit and Board presentation, departed from the past
individual project approach. During the meeting, the Government presented its Letter of Sector
Policy (the Letter) with the following objectives: (a) to establish an efficient system of resource
allocation to priority sector investments within acceptable macro-economic parameters in
keeping with CAR's limited financial, institutional and operational capacity; (b) to strengthen
institutional capacity for adequate planning and implementation of transport infrastructure
investments; (c) to enhance operational capacity by expanding participation of the private sector
and local communities in road works; and (d) to initiate a long-term program of environmental
protection related to the transport sector.
3.    The set of policy measures laid down in the Letter were to constitute an integral part of
the TSP. The Letter was worded in terms of commitments, but its issuance was not a condition
of Board presentation. Th,e draft Letter was discussed during negotiations and during the donor
meeting mentioned above. A final version, dated March 18, 1990 was sent to IDA, just before
signature of the Credit Agreement (May 21, 1990). It described the strategy adopted for 1990-
1995 concerning transport liberalization; adjustment of transport sector institutions and



2
specialized agencies; adherence to careful sector investment planning; establishment of an
adequate road maintenance strategy, including a transfer from force account methods to using
private contractors and a stronger management of the Road Fund (RF), an autonomous agency
financing road maintenance from earmarked taxes on fuel; a greater transparency of the river
transport tariff system; implementation of a road safety program; and more efficient procurement
procedures. The Letter also included an Action Plan on Institutional Reorganization and
Reinforcement Measures regarding access to the sea of land-locked CAR, Road Maintenance,
User Charges, Road Fund, Transport Liberalization, Transit Transport Facilitation, Transport
Tariffs, Road Safety, and Environmental Protection. Altogether, it was a comprehensive
document, with deadlines for commercial management of the Government's road maintenance
equipment pool; audit of the Agency for Air Navigation and Safety in Africa and Madagascar
(ASECNA); reforms in the Road Freight Bureau (BARC) and the Shippers' Council (CCAC);
and elimination of road blocks where police and other government staff abused the truckers.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.          The project objectives differ according to which docurnent is reviewed. The
Memorandum of the President (MOP) defines the project objectives as those of the framework
and transport sector strategy described in par. 2. above and formulated in the Letter (para. 3). The
Credit Agreement (CA) defines the project objectives as to: (a) strengthen the Borrower's
capability to adequately program, prepare and execute investment projects for its transport sector;
and (b) develop a comprehensive maintenance strategy to consolidate previous investments made
in the transport sector inter alia through execution of routine and periodic maintenance for high
priority roads, and selective rehabilitation and upgrading of existing infrastructure. The project
objectives in the Staff Appraisal report (SAR) include physical objectives. They are, within the
fiamework of the transport sector strategy, to finance the transport sector component of the
sector's transport program, comprising road, river and civil aviation sub-sectors of the
Government's rolling Public Investment Plan for the 1991-1993 period. The project as defined
in the CA, included four major components: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance; River
Transport Improvement; Air Transportation Improvement; and Institutional Improvement.
5.          The Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component included: (a)
rehabilitation and routine and periodic maintenance of about 4,000 km of national and regional
roads, rehabilitation of 720 km of rural roads, and installation or repair of culverts, bridges and
ferries; formulation of a rural roads master plan; reconstruction of a segment of about 20 km of
National Road No. I (NR1); and execution of a detailed engineering study for the pavement of
NR1 on about 70 km between Bossembele and Yaloke; (b) acquisition of equipment, vehicles
and spare parts for routine road maintenance and ferry services; (c) strengthening of the
capability of domestic contractors to carry out road maintenance works; (d) improvement of road
safety; (e) and a program to protect the natural environment, in particular along the Bambio-
Boda road and the Mbaere River swamp.



3
6.    The River Transport Improvement Component included: (a) execution of pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies required for the construction of a dam to regulate the flow of the
Oubangui; (b) a study to streamline the structure and level of river tariffs charged by the river
transport company (SOCATRAF); and (c) strengthening of SOCATRAF's capability to
adequately maintain and repair its machinery and equipment.
7.    The Air Transport Component included: strengthening of security conditions at the
Bangui airport; (b) a study to improve the quality of services provided by ASECNA; and (c)
technical studies and maintenance works at the Berberati airport.
8.    The Institutional Improvement Component included: (a) strengthening of the
capability of the Ministry of Public Works and Land Development (MTPAT) to program,
supervise and monitor the execution of road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance works;
(b) strengthening of the capability of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTAC) to
formulate appropriate policies and strategies for the transport sector and monitor their
implementation; (c) improvement of the management of MTPAT's equipment workshop; (d)
improvement of the managerial and operational capability of MTPAT's public works laboratory;
(e) upgrading the skills of MTPAT and MTAC staff responsible for carrying out any part of the
project through training activities, seminars and study tours; (f) a study to streamline current
regulations and procedures, for procurement of goods and services by government agencies; (g)
diagnostic studies to streamline BARC's and CCAC's management; and (h) preparation of a
follow-up project. An inter-ministerial planning unit (Cellule interministerielle de planification
des transports et des travaux publics - CIPTTP) was responsible for project monitoring and
investment planning.
9.    Evaluation of Obojectives and Risks. Because at appraisal, the project was built as
IDA's participation to an overall transport sector program, the objectives considered in this ICR
are those of the program. These objectives, although ambitious, were in line with the country's
structural adjustment program at that time. The SAR objective of financing a slice of the
investment program in the transport sector is not considered a development objective as such,
thus has not been evaluated. The objective of strengthening the Borrower's capability to
adequately program, prepare and execute investment projects in the transport sector was overly
ambitious because of the r isk of institutional weakness. Besides, it was difficult to monitor and
no performance indicator had been defined in this respect. The objective of developing private
sector and local communilies role was realistic and necessary, but a long effort, beyond the time
limits of one project, is necessary to sustainably achieve it. The specific objectives at agency
level (improvement of the management of the Road Fund, privatization of the management of the
road maintenance equipment workshop) were adequately selected as such. The main risks
foreseen for the project during preparation were the institutional weaknesses in project
management and insufficient resources for road maintenance.  These risks did actually
materialize. The project failed to assess the political risks; still, the country record showed that
the risk existed.



4
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   Achievement was partial in all areas. The main reasons are: political instability resulting
in civil strikes and army mutinies; shortage of local counterpart funds; de;lays in co-financing and
suspension of disbursement by major donors; cost overruns due to the CFAF devaluation; and
lack of continued Government commitment to sector reform. Following is an assessment of the
achievements under each components and its specific undertakings.
Physical Components
11.   Road Works. The project was completed to about 55% of its objectives. Some 2,520 km
of roads were rebuilt, rehabilitated or maintained, against 4,000 planned at appraisal; RN 3 was
rebuilt and RN 1 diverted as planned. Part of the 129 km of missing link on the main
import/export road to Cameroon was paved. Maintenance was conducted on 1,065 km of roads.
520 km of rural roads were partly rehabilitated, against 720 km originally planned. Equipment
and vehicles were procured as planned and offices rehabilitated. However, in 1996 due to the
military rebellion, most of the vehicles, facilities and equipment were destroyed.
12.   Air Transport and River Transport. Improvement of airport security was completed
and the accounts of ASECNA were audited, but there is no record available in the files of the
audit results and no follow-up actions were taken. Spot improvement of the runway at Berberati
airport was also completed although very late (1996). The river transport component was not
implemented due to transport problems in Congo. The Letter did not include more on these
subsectors and the situation is therefore acceptable, although not fully satisfactory.
Transport Policy Reform and Institutional Components
13.   Regulatory Agencies. The road freight bureau (BARC) was reorganized and its staffing
retrenched in 1990-1991. As a result, BARC is now managed by the private sector and operates
the Bangui Road Freight Station. It also collects road traffic statistics and distributes freight
between the Central African Republic and Cameroon. Freight transport contracts and tariffs are
now negotiated directly between shippers and road carriers. The situation can be considered as
satisfactory.
14.   Axle Load and Police Control. Although police and customs controls at road blocks
were officially reduced in late 1991, they started to reappear in 1996 with associated levies.
Under the pressure of truckers, the collection of fines for excessive ax]le loads has been lax.
Regulation was not enforced or enforcement was waived under the pressure of truckers. Political
will and implementation capacity were missing. In addition, the abuses by officials at road
blocks made it difficult for the Government to enforce its own regulation. The situation is
unsatisfactory.
15.   Road Fund. The Road Fund (RF) contributed to the project costs. Revenues from
earmarked taxes amounted to CFAF 2.0 billion (US$ 4.0 million equivalent) between 1993-94



5
against 2.7 billion per annm;r projected at appraisal. This amount declined even further in 1995
and 1996, and by the end of 1996, PETROCA, the national petroleum company responsible for
the collection of earmarked taxes, owed more than CFAF 1.6 billion to the Fund. Availability of
resources for road maintenance was further reduced as the Government continued to finance
expenses unrelated to road maintenance from the Fund, as evidenced by the difference between
the Fund resources (some US$ 39.0 million equivalent from 1990 to 1996) and the Government's
participation to project cosits (US$ 25.0 million equivalent). Audits of the Fund's accounts were
often late and poorly conducted. The 1995-96 audit report on the RF concluded that its financial
position was weak, due to: (a) the decrease in fuel sales following the economic downturn caused
by political unrest; (b) the Government's debt of some US$1.0 million equivalent to the Fund;
and (c) the Government's waiver of the payment of the earmarked tax by some privileged
enterprises or agencies, despite stipulation to the contrary in the Budget Appropriation Law.
The situation regarding the Road Fund and its operations is unsatisfactory.
16.   Reorganization of Public Works and Transport Ministries. Human resource
management in the sector mninistries was reorganized and computerized; administrative staff was
also trained. By project end, however, the quality of personnel administration was still poor. The
excessive mobility of civil servants did not permit proper administration. No progress was made
on the improvement of government procurement procedures; the proposed study on the matter
was not conducted. No change was introduced in the decision-making process in the reorganized
Ministries, which remained highly centralized. The distribution and misuse of project-financed
vehicles was a recurrent problem during project execution, as was also evidence of inadequate
administrative practice and discipline. Compared to the efforts deployed, the situation as regard
public administration of the sector is disappointingly unsatisfactory.
17.  Investment Planning and Statistics. Partial progress was made in investment planning.
Although no long-term investment planning mechanism was established, well-organized donor
meetings maintained coherence in road investment, thus establishing the framework for a more
elaborate planning system for the future.  Annual investment budgets were prepared in
consultation with IDA. Only the pavement of the Bossembele-Yaloke road caused a major
disagreement between donors. At the end, after considerable discussions on the economic
justification of the works, the project was executed. The inter-agency Planning Unit for
Transport and Public Works was to be expanded with statistical capability and to prepare annual
investment budgets; it seems to have worked mainly as a project unit. It produced useful but
incomplete project information briefs. Detailed project costs, for example, are unknown partly
because donors failed to provide the needed information. The Planning Unit's involvement in
investment planning concentrated on the preparation of a second Transport Sector Project. The
situation in that respect is rnarginally satisfactory.
18.   Road Safety Program. The Road Fund was to earmark one percent of its budget to
support road safety programs, but these resources were never allocated. Also most of the staff
trained under this program was moved to other ministerial departments. As a result, the outcome
of this program is considered nil.



6
19.   Road  Maintenance Strategy. The objective that, by project end, 70 percent of
maintenance financed by the Road Fund would be conducted by local contractors, was not met.
In July 1996, the figure was 26 percent overall and 40 percent for IDA-financed road
maintenance. Reasons for the performance shortfall were: (a) delays in implementing the
technical assistance program to promote the development of the local construction industry; (b)
reluctance in the Ministry of Public Works to reduce force account works and to lease equipment
to small contractors; (c) shortage of financial resources; and (d) lack of a detailed program for
project execution, with benchmarks and performance indicators. The situation is unsatisfactory.
20.   Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshop. There is an indication in the project
files that the Government did not favor privatization of the road maintenance workshop, as called
for in the Credit Agreement, but only an undefined commercial management, as mentioned in the
SAR. In 1995, the Government established a statutory corporation to run the workshop, which
IDA considered as contrary to the Credit Agreement. In 1996, the Government deferred the
implementation of the statutory corporation and was willing to proceed with direct privatization,
but there were differences of views between the ministries involved. By jproject end, no decision
had been taken, an unsatisfactory result.
21.   Pilot Actions. Pilot actions in infrastructure works were to be conducted under the
following headings: maintenance of paved roads and earth roads improvement; extensive use of
timber and local materials; road data bank; and jobs for the young. Some progress was made in
promoting medium size enterprises but not on small size enterprises. A consultant study on this
aspect was completed in February 1995 and could be used for the imp;lementation of a future
operation.
22.   Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical Assistance (TA) totaled 654
person/months against 665 planned. Of these, 222 person/months were local consultants against
203 planned. Most of the local TAs were in the economics and computer technology group while
all engineers, mechanics, etc. were expatriates. The reports of the local consultants are generally
good, demonstrating that CAR has, in some areas, skilled human resources available.  In
addition to assisting in the supervision of civil works, technical assistants improved and
supported management in the Road Maintenance Equipment Workshop, developed computerized
human resources management and accounting systems in Government agencies, prepared a
computerized system of management of driver permits and of vehicle reg-istration, prepared the
road safety program, supported the development of small and medium enterprises, and prepared
and implemented the training program. Technical assistants contributed markedly to the
reorganization of the Ministry of Public Works and to its reorientation towards reduction of force
account works and concomitant increases in private sector participation to road maintenance.
Execution of the training program started in April 1993 about two ,years behind schedule
because the time necessary to prepare the program had been underestimated. Only 508 staff were
trained against 1409 planned; and only 70 percent of the proposed programs were successfully
implemented due to the army mutinies in 1996. It is difficult to reconcile training delivered and
staffing needs because of an excessively high turnover of local staff in the technical ministries.



7
23.         Studies. In all, twenty studies were identified under the project, the results of
these studies are presented in Table 7. Follow-up and monitoring of studies seems to have been
weak. The set of studies carried out for the preparation of a possible TSP II constitutes a valid
basis for developing a project.
D. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
24.   The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) projected in the SAR for the road works were: 18
percent for the rehabilitati'on and maintenance of paved roads; 32 percent for the gravel and earth
roads; and 20 percent for the rural roads. Traffic increase on priority roads was projected at 2
percent. At project comLpletion, due to the lack of information on the actual cost of works
financed by other donors, only maintenance works financed by IDA could be assessed. The ERR
for the patching works on paved roads and for the rehabilitation of earth roads are 57 and 28
percent. The Net Present Values (NPV) discounted at 12 percent are 0.8 and 1.9 billion CFAF
respectively. For paved roads, ERRs in the SAR and the ICR cannot be compared as the works
were not the same, rehaLbilitation costs forecast in the SAR being around US$400,000 per
kilometer and the costs of patching works actually executed being around US$3,000 per
kilometer.
E. MAJIOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
25.   The project was affected by the devaluation of the CFAF which reduced the volume of
maintenance works which could be financed from the Road Fund.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
26.    Some donors failed to contribute to their agreed financing of the project because of
delays in project preparation and in the mobilization of resources due to an unsatisfactory
macro-economic framework or country suspension due to debt arrears.
27.   Political instability and civil disturbances substantially affected implementation of the
project, although it is difficult to assess by how much these factors were actually subject to
government control. Civil servant strikes punctuated with violence and looting were mostly due
to non-payment of salary arrears.
15.   Although Government commitment appeared firm  during project preparation, its
subsequentilack of commritment to implement the policy reforms agenda substantially impeded



8
attainment of the project's goal. Clearly, the Government was not in favor of privatization of the
road maintenance equipment and workshop, but preferred some undefined commercial
management. Also fifteen years after its establishment, the Road Fund is still operating
unsatisfactorily. Either it does not obtain the resources to which it is entitled, or the Government
continues to use it as an emergency reserve to finance expenses unrelated to road maintenance.
16.   At the level of implementing agencies, the rapid turnover of staff was a major factor
affecting the project, which resulted from political unstability and frequent changes in
Government. Poor procurement performance by implementing agencies was also a concerned
expressed by supervision missions.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Project sustainability varies from one component to the other and, overall, is uncertain,
mostly because of: (a) political uncertainty, which is a factor external to the project; (b)
Government's reluctance (linked to political uncertainty) to major institutional reform, such as
privatization, as demonstrated by the failure to privatize the Road Maintenance Equipment
Workshop and by the trend, towards project end, to resume force account works for road
maintenance; (iii) lack of staff stability, which deprives government departments of their best
trained staff. Even with political stability, project sustainability would have been hampered by
dependence on external financing for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the priority
network and by insufficient resources for routine maintenance due to the failure to properly
manage the Road Fund. Sustainability of the framework for coordination of sector reforms and
investments rests on the existence of the Inter-ministerial Planning Unit and on the capacity of
its staff; this is a very fragile arrangement since the unit is somewhat outside the standard
government set-up of ministerial departments and is staffed by consultants. The liberalization of
transport policy is likely to be sustainable. However, the intense competition of foreign truckers,
following deregulation, is hitting local truckers very badly and Governmeint may be tempted at a
later stage to again regulate tariffs. As regard public administration, it seems that the current
ministerial set-up does not work well and that more in-depth reforms are necessary if any project
of this type is to be sustainable; more time is however necessary to assess the sustainability of the
restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works.
G. IDA PERFORMANCE
29.   IDA's performance is rated satisfactory for identification and preparation and with regard
to the project concept.  Under instructions to develop comprehensive transport sector
restructuring projects rather than standard highway projects, IDA staff made considerable efforts



9
during appraisal to build a complex project in a country of limited administrative capacity.
Project appraisal was marginally satisfactory. The SAR and MOP were rich in details, but, for
future supervision, lacked: (a) a set of performance indicators; and (b) the format of future
annexes to progress reports.  The appraisal documents were insufficient for supervision.
Conceptually brilliant, the project lacked professional implementation tools. The CA, the SAR
and the MOP are not fully consistent, making it difficult during implementation to assess what
the achievement of project objectives are. The handling of the Letter of Sectoral Policy was
neglectful. At the end of negotiations, the Letter was still in draft and not yet presented to the
Cabinet. Although according to the minutes of negotiations, it should have been sent in final
before Board presentation, it was actually sent to IDA just before CA's signature (see para. 3).
There is no record of IDA's formal agreement on its final content. The record is that, for the
Borrower, it had at best an indicative value; IDA did not press its implementation. No link was
established between the Letter, covenants, a mutually agreed project execution work plan and
program with benchmarks, performance indicators, etc., despite that such a program had been
detailed in an annex to the SAR.
30.          Project supervision is rated deficient. Supervision missions were too few and too
short in comparison to the time spent at headquarters. Although about 27 staff-weeks per year
were devoted to supervision, the many studies carried out under the project were not subject to
an adequate review and follow-up. Even though they were items of lesser importance, aviation
and river transport components should have been followed by specialists, which was not the case.
Staff continuity was inadequate. A project of that complexity called for: a follow-up by the same
staff members during implementation; frequent supervision missions equipped with monitoring
tools; long enough presence in field to properly monitor and supervise each component. The
policy aspects of the project were let aside when the execution of the physical aspects of the
project started. Supervision reports lacked consistency, successive project managers seemed to
have quite different views on how the project was performing; their opinions and
recommendations vary widely; tabulated information was generally insufficient; information is
badly missing on progress of studies. There are no signs of contribution of IDA's legal staff in
institutional reform, despite its many legal aspects, nor for in evaluating the Borrower's
compliance to covenants. Although IDA's effort for donor coordination was noticeable and
successful, it failed to agree to implementation arrangements before project start. This created
conflict with some of the donors. Part of supervision time in missions were rather absorbed by
meetings of co-financiers, thus reducing the time available for supervision tasks. Revisions of
the CA were limited to reallocation of proceeds; IDA did not seek changes when some of the
covenants became irrelevant (e.g. reduction of the covenanted level of revenue accruing to the
Road Fund when it became clear that the original figures were not realistic). IDA did not press
strongly for the implemeintation of some covenants (annual maintenance program and its formal
approval) or was inconsistent in its reactions to Government proposals (e.g. opinions on the
proposed arrangements for management of the Road Maintenance Equipment Workshop, which
sent conflicting signals to Government).



10
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory as regard physical progress; it is rated
unsatisfactory in other areas.. Although the Borrower managed to implement some of the
physical components of the project, training, technical assistance programs and studies, it was in
default as regard to: (a) the Road Fund level and allocation of resources; (b) yearly planning of
road maintenance; (c) timeliness of audits; and (d) the implementation of a coherent transport
strategy in line with the Letter of Sector Policy. Institutional changes introduced by the project
were obtained through conditions of negotiation and effectiveness, not during project
implementation. Once financing was secured, little happened except day-to-day work. It seems
the Borrower showed no interest in changing its procurement procedures to make them more
efficient and better adapted to the local small contractors. This poor performance results mostly
from the troubled political situation, which also caused changes in staff of sector ministries as
well as at the decision-making level in the Government, much too frequent to sustain full
internalization of the reform process which had been satisfactory at the time of project
preparation.
33.   The Inter-Agency Planning Unit performed reasonably well in monitoring project
execution; however, as project execution went ahead, reports tended to concentrate heavily on
the preparation of a possible future project rather than on the implementation of the on-going
one. While well presented, although verbose, these reports lack basic data as mentioned above.
The Unit is probably on track to become an efficient agency, but has still a long way to go to
reach acceptable professional standards.
33.   Covenants were partially adhered to (in a proportion of some 2 out of 3 covenants).
Main causes of breaches of covenant were the lack of financial resources and political
constraints. In addition to delays in execution (e.g. in submission of audits and start of studies),
significant breaches were (i) the use of Road Fund resources to defray Government expenses
(Section 3.02); (ii) the creation of a statutory corporation to manage the Road Maintenance
Equipment Workshop without IDA's agreement (Section 3.08); and (iii) non implementation of
the Environmental Action Plan (Section 3.05).
I.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The project outcome is unsatisfactory because objectives were set at an unreasonable
level. In fact, the road network has been salvaged and preserved and some progress has been
made in institution-building. Staff have been trained, local consultants have demonstrated their
capacity, a statement of transport policy has been obtained, and the basis now exists for
continued action. If these had been the project objectives, they would have been perfectly valid



11
ones, and the project wiould have been rated a successful. The liberalization of road transport led
to the elimination of the non-competitive local carriers to the benefit of foreign truckers. This
was an unexpected otutcome of the project which, nevertheless, indicates that road transport
prices have declined, under the pressure of competition. Altogether, should the political situation
become more stable, the grounds laid by the project still exist for donor assistance in a
framework of policy reform, investment planning and availability of resources.
J. FUTURE OPERATION
35.   Although the Government had started preparing a new road maintenance strategy, the
restructuring of the Road Fund and the privatization of the management of the equipment pool at
the end of the project execution, these activities were stopped because of the political situation.
Only roads rehabilitated under the project with IDA financing were maintained to sustain their
operation.
17.   Should the political situation become more stable, the grounds laid by the project would
have permitted further donor assistance in a framework combining policy reforrn, investment
planning and availability of resources. A future project should be held within this framework
established under the first project. The following points provide guidance for the preparation:
(a)   assess and determine what is left of the first Transport Sector Project; then
elaborate a much more sober program aiming at continuing actions under the first
operation which have a chance of success;
(b)   have one set only of consistent objectives;
(c)   include a transport industry component in future project, because the issue of the
local industry not being competitive is a disturbing one that deserves to be
examined; transport liberalization will not survive long if it appears destructive of
the local road transport industry;
(d)   examine whether sector ministries would survive in their present form or whether
they shLould be much smaller (reform/downsizing), elaborating strategy and
following-up its implementation and leaving actual work to specialized agencies
such as the Road Agency proposed in 1995 in the consultant's study on the Road
Fund;
(e)   move credit conditions up front: (i) reform of the Road Fund; (ii) reinforcement of
private sector contribution to road maintenance; (iii) improvements in
procurement procedures to allow for the participation of small and middle size
enterprises to do road maintenance; (iv) privatization of the road maintenance
workshop;



12
(f)   prepare adequate follow-up and supervision material before the start of project
implementation; and
(g)   relate the strategy letter to credit conditions and to the workplan for project
execution; and
(h)   ensure full participation of all ministerial departments in the preparation and
execution of the project by building a team composed of the departments and the
interministerial unit.
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.          Key lessons learned are: (a) the Borrower's capacity to absorb reforms should be
estimated more carefully: it is no use to build a project with impressive objectives if these
objectives cannot be achieved; (b) objectives should be limited in number, simple and
consistent, and formulated in similar terms in all documents, and implementation timetables
should be realistic ; (c) special attention should be paid to sustaining internalization of sector
reforms when frequent changes of staff in the administration occur; (d) legal work should be
more substantial in preparation, appraisal, operations and follow-up; specially with regard to the
relation to be established and maintained, through adequate legal arrangemrents, between the
strategy letter and the workplan for project execution; (e) supervision documentation, format of
reports, implementation indicators, etc. must be prepared in detail in advance and remain
coherent during the whole duration of project life; (f) complex projects should have staff with the
necessary skills to supervise them adequately; no component should be introduced in a project
unless IDA is sure it would be adequately monitored by a competent specialist.
37.   The following issues should be addressed in similar project involving several co-
financiers: (a) co-financiers do not feel bound by the Sectoral Policies formulated in a Letter of
Sectoral Policy to which they are not a party; the Letter has, for them, only an indicative and
maybe temporary value; (b) the more co-financiers in a project, the more the risks that their own
imperatives will disturb project implementation; (c) resources should be allocated for supervision
to cover the additional cost related to donor coordination; and (d) more of the burden of
administering co-financing should be borne by the Borrower.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2126-CA)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial         Partial         Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                         E                E                  E                   V
Sector Policies     .                                    V                [                   E]
Financial Objectives                                    El                '
Institutional Development              E                 V                E                    ]
Physical Objectives                   El                /                  O                  E
Poverty Reduction                      Cl               E                  E                  /
Gender Issues                          a:               [                  al 
Other Social Objectives                                 i                 i:i
Environmental Objectives               5                E                  V                   5
Public Sector Management                                 V                i                   El
Private Sector Development:            E                 V                 E                   a
Other (specify)                         O               E                  E                  E
B.  roject Sustainabilitv    Likely                       Unlikely                    Uncertain
*~~~E                                           El a



14
Higy
C. Bank Perfonrnance                     satisfacto             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      ('1)                        (1)
Identification                         ]                                                  i a
Preparation Assistance                                                                    []
Appraisal                           a            a
Supervision                                                    [a
Highl
D. Borrower Performance                         satisfactory    Satisfactor       Deficient
Preparation                                     a              /                a
Implementation                                  a               a/
Covenant Compliance                            El              /                El
Operation (if applicable)                                                       E in
Highly                                              Hiwy
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfatry    Satisfactor     UnsatisfkLc        unsatisfitQry
El/              El)              (/                El



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                            Purpose                   Approval      Slatus
Preceding Operations
1. First Highway Project              Expansion of the Highway Network.              1969      Complted
2. Highway Maintenance Projecl         Maintenance of the Highway Network.           1970      Completed
3. Third Highway Project               Construction of 145 km Bangui-Bossembele Road    1978   Completed
4. Fourth Highway Project              Rehabilitation  of 1,217 km  of gravel road,  1982      Completed
construction & renovation of offices & workshops.
Following Operations
Transport Sector Project 2              Program aiming at continuing actions under the first  1999  Under Prepwation
project which have a chance of success
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle       Date Planned        latest estimate
Identification                                          October 87
Preparation                                            December 88
Pre-appraisal                    March/April 89         March 89
Appraisal                          October 89           October 89
Negotiations                       February 89         February 90
Board presentation                September 89         April 24,90
Signinig                                               May 21, 90
Effectiveness                        July 90          October 12, 90
Projec:t completion                June 30, 96         June 30, 96
Credil: closing                 December 31, 1996    December 31, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97
Appraisal Estimate             8.30      16.80     30.50     43.50     54.00     60.20      62.00
Actual                         9.52      14.62     26.68     38.23     49.82      57.94     66.79
Actual as % of Estimate       114.7%    87.0%     87.5%      87.9%     92.3%     96.2%     107.7%
Date of Final Disbursement                                                             6.12.1997
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Road Fund Revenues (CFAF billion)
Revenues estimated in the      Actual revenues             Actual revenues
SAR                   (CFAF current)          (1990 CFAF const)n__
1990                        2.1                        2.2                         2.2
1991                        2.2                        2.0                         1.9
1992                        2.4                         1.8                        1.7
1993                        2.7                         1.7                        1.5
1994                        2.7                        2.2                         1.5



16
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in    Estimated      Rehabilitation   Maintenance km            Financed
SAR/President Report             Length            km                                       by
km
PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
Rehabilitation and maintenance of
Roads (kIn)
National Roads Paved
NI Bangui (PK12) --Bossembele             148              0                 148                  IDA
N2 Bangui (PK12)--Damara                   64              0                 64                   IDA
N2 Damara-Sibut                           111              0                 111                  IDA
N6 Bangui (PK 9)-M'Baiki                  98               0                 98                   IDA
N3 Bossembele-Yaloke                      68               68                0                    JICA
N3 Yaloke-Bossemptele                     70               70                70                   JICA
Subtotal                                  559             138               431
National Roads Laterite
Nl Bossembele-Bossangoa                   148             148               444                Road Fund
NI Bossangoa-Bedaoyo                      195             195               585                Road Fund
N2 Sibut-Bambari                          200             200               400                   IDA
N2 Bambari-Alindao                        120             120               240              IDA/Road Fund
N2 Alindao-Bangassou                      118             118                118              UE/Road Fund
N3 Bossembele-Garoua Boulai               453             234               504                 JICA/IDA
N4 Damara-Bouca                           220             440               440                   IDA
N5 Sibut-Kaga Bandoro                     215             215               215                Road Fund
N5 Bambari Ippy-Bria                      210             210               420                   IDA
N6 Carnot-Berberati                       100              93               200                   IDA
N6 Berberati-Gamboula                     94               90                188                  IDA
N8 Kaga Bandoro-M'Bres                    91               0                 91                Road Fund
NIO Berberati-Nola                        136             133               266                   IDA
NIO Nola-Salo                             55               98                108                  IDA
NI 1 Baoro-Carnot                         100             195               200                   IDA
Subtotal                                 2,455           2,489             4,419
Regional Roads Laterite
RI M'Baiki-Mogoumba                       82               80               160                   IDA
R4 Bouar-Bocaranga                        142             140                0                    IDA
R6 M'Baiki-Boda                           85              83                166                   IDA
RIO Batangafo-Ouandago                    60              60                 60                Road Fund
RIO Kaga Bandoro-Ouandago                 48              48                 0                 Road Fund
R26 Yamando-Bambio                        85              85                170                   IDA
Subtotal                                  502             496               556
Ouham Pende Regional Development          700             700.              700                   KfW
Program
TOTAL                                    4,216           3,803             6,096



17
Table 5b . Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Actions to be taken                 Actions taken
POLICY COMPONENTS
A. Liberalization of the Transport Industry
Revision of statutes of BARC to reflect modification of its Actual liberalization took place: Board meeting on 3.23.1990 and
role.                                                Decree 90.275 dated 9.15.1990.
Alleviation of requirements regulating registration as  Simplification of registration of road carriers per Decree dated
transport                                            2.13.1990
B. Reduction and Improved Application of Transport
Controls
Revision of introduction of less burdensome customs  Presidential Instructions No 2/91, dated 9.11.1991 about road
controls for ordinary transport and tamper proof seals for  blocks and river controls.
container transport.                                 Simplified customs procedures following the opening of a
container terminal at Bangui Port (1996)
By-law 005/MTAC/MTPHAT re compulsory check of vehicle
weight at PK 12 Weighing Station
C. Tariff Policy and Harmonization of Measures
to Encourage Competition
Continuation of policy of tariff liberalization.    As per by-law No 1/272/MTAC dated 5.17.1990, by-law No
78/MTAC dated 5.15.1990, Circular No 308/MTAC dated
5.8.1990.
Study of road transport costs and actual taxes charged to  Road  freight transport tariff study  conducted  in  1990.
travelers to change from a fixed tariff system to liberal  Conclusions not implemented. Lack of financing did not permit
price system, approved by the Government.            conducing the study on road transport passenger tariffs.
Carrying out of a study on new tariff for river transport  Study carried out but recommendations not implemented.
aiming at cost based tariffs including seasonal adjustments
during dry season and a margin for commercial negotiation
D. Road Maintenance Strategy
Decision on study results on reorg;mizing the workshop of  Studies on commercial management of the Bangui-M'Poko
the Equipment Department into a commercial organization  Workshop were conducted in 1991 and 1992. by SEGMENT and
of MTPAT                                            AMSCO. Government selected a statutory corporation type of
management.  IDA did not accept it, despite the fact that
Parliament passed an Act creating the corporation, which was
promulgated by the President.  Government agreed to direct
privatization in 1996. Consultants are being recruited.
Preparation of a rural roads master plan and rural  Rural roads master plan completed in 1992 by BDPA. To be
infrastructure studies                              updated during preparation of future project.
E. Road Fund and Fiscal Policy
Implementation of the recommendations to improve Road  Recommendations of the 1998 audit report were implemented
Fund operations, of which:                          with a 4-year delay. Other audit reports recommendations were
Appointment of key Road Fund staff.                  implemented.
Initiation of implementation of 1988 Road Fund Audit  Road Fund accounts are audited annually by international
recommendations.                                    auditors.  Accounts  were  kept  in  order  during  TSP1
implementation.
Quarterly reports on use of funds are issued to IDA and to other
co-financiers.
Use of funds is checked at regular intervals and compared to
agreed road maintenance program.
Road Fund resources need to be applied to road  Government's tight cash situation during TSPI did not permit
maintenance only, while general expenditures for salaries,  budget financing of MTPAT operating expenses. These were
fuel, equipment and spare parts need to be financed from  financed by the Road Fund.
the Ministerial budget starting with additional amount of
CFAF 50.2 million in 1990 to CFAF 144.5 million in
1993.
Settlement of difference in volume of fuel imported Transfer of funds from PETROCA to Road Fund is frequently



18
Actions to be taken                Actions taken
between customs and PETRCCA and transfer of user fee  much behind schedule.
charges due into Road Fund Account.
Increase in vehicle tax to permit increase in Road Fund  The vehicle tax was increased from CFAF 50 to 55. However,
Resources from CFAF 2.2 billion in 1991 to CFAF 2.7  revenues were less than expected: CFAFI.9 billion in 1991 (2.2
billion in 1993.                                   projected); 2.1 in 1992 (2.4); 2.3 in 1993 (2.7).
Strengthening of measures against fraudulent imports of  Measures to stop smuggling were inefficient and did not permit
fuel.                                              reaching the expected results.
Modification of Road Fund Statutes to reflect revisions.  Road Fund Statutes were modified in 1993.
F. Institutional Reorganization and Strengthening
Implementation of agreed reorganization plans of MTPAT  Both Ministries were reorganized . MTAC: Decree 90.109 dated
and MTAC.                                          5.5.1990 and 90-112 dated 5.12.1990; Bye-Law 79/MTAC dated
5.21.1990; MFP Bye-Law on reorganization 43, dated 5.18.1990.
MTPAT:  Decree 110.90 dated 5.9.1990 and 90.116 dated
5.16.1990; MFP Bye-Law on reorganisation 46 dated 5.19.1990
and 66 dated 8.25.1990.
Appointment completed by Decree 90.224 dated 8.21.1990.
Appointment of MTPAT Directors of Road Maintenance,  Staffing adjustments completed 5.31.1990.
Rural Roads and Human Resources.
Completion of adjustment of staffing of MTPAT and
MTAC in accordance with agreed recommendations of
MTPAT and MTAC organizational plans
Implementation of recommendations of Task force on the  Recommendations of Task Force for an audit of CCAC . Audit
modification of CCAC.                              available in May 1993. Government decided suspension of CCAC
pending its reorganization.
Investment Planning and Statistics
IPCTP to be expanded with statistical capability to  Not implemented. Training started in 1991 was stopped and not
interpret statistics from Transport Sector planning.  restarted.
IPCTP to act as the coordinating unit for transport sector  IPCTP acted as transport investments planning unit in cooperation
investment planning. Donor investment proposals to be  with Ministry of Planning.
channeled through and analyzed by IPCTP.
Limitation of Transport Sector Investments to priority  Generally complied with but IRR of paving of 140 km of a road
investment with ERR of at least 10%, taking into account  under bilateral financing was estimalted by IDA to be well below
Government's recurrent cost financing capacity.    the required threshold of 10 percent.
Road Safety Program
Initiation of Implementation of Road Safety program.  Study conducted. Program not implemented.
Environmental Protection
Initiation of implementation of recommendation for Study conducted in 1993. No action.
immediate protection
Procurement
- Carrying out a study to prepare recommendations for Two seminars on procurement with little impact on procedures
making its procurement system and procedures more and practice.
efficient, as well as to prepare a training program of staff
responsible for procurement.



19
Talble 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in                     N.A
SAR/President's Report
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)            N.A
III. Modified Indicator for Future                 N.A
Operation (if applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                Status                   Impact of Study
Pre-feasibility and feasibility studies regarding the   Pre-feasibility    None. Financing of the feasibility
construction of a river flow regulating dam on the  study completed        study is lacking.
Oubangui River.
Study to review SOCATRAF's river transport tariff.  Completed              No effect due to decrease of river
traffic.
Studies regarding the reorganization of ASECNA's  Completed                None. No follow-up to study's
services.                                                                  recommnendations.
Feasibility study to examine the possibility of adapting   Completed       None.
Berberati airport for regional air traffic.
Special studies to improve CAR's procurement system  Not carried out
Environmental action plan                         Limited to environmental  None.
impact assessment of the
4th parallel road
Road safety (signaling)                           Completed                Unknown
Earth road maintenance study                      Completed                Helped to estimate annual road
maintenance budgets.
Study to promote the development of local contractors    Completed         Medium-sized  contractors  have
developed.
Equipment, rental tariff, spare part inventory study  Completed            Unknown
Architectural study for rehabilitation of bus and freight  Completed       Works have been carried out on the
terminal                                                                   basis of the study
Detailed engineering studies and supervision of works    Completed         Works have been completed. Local
staff has been trained.
TSP I feasibility study                           Completed                Helped in the design of the project.
Studies regarding the crossing over the Mbaere river  Not carried out
and swamp area at Bambio
Diagnostic studies on BARC and CCAC               Completed                The BARC has been restructured
and CCAC's role has been
diminished.
Study to develop a master plan for                Completed                None. Institutional and financing
rural roads rehab. & maintenance                                           issues remain unaddressed.
Study for a rural environment improvement operation  Not carried out



20
Table 8 A : Project Costs
SAR Estimate ( US$M)                      Actual (US$M)
Project Components
Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign        Total
1. RNI Reconstruction.      2.9          4.8          7.7         n/a          n/a           n/a
M'Bali Darn
2. Paving RN3               3.2          7.4          10.6         n/a          n/a          n/a
3. Paved Roads Rehab.       6.7          11.2         17.9         n/a          n/a          n/a
4. Graveled Roads           19.8        25.3         45.1          n/a          n/a          n/a
5. Rural Roads              2.4          3.5          5.9          n/a          n/a          n/a
6. Critical. Points         1.2          1.8          3.0          n/a          n/a          n/a
7. Privatization            1.0          4.0          4.9          n/a          n/a          n/a
8. Civil Aviation           0.2          0.6          0.8          n/a          n/a          n/a
9. Institutional Support    2.9         15.1          18.0         n/a          n/a          n/a
10. Studies                  0.8          2.9          3.7         n/a          n/a           n/a
11. Pilot Actions            0.5          1.3          1.8         n/a          n/a           n/a
12. PPF                      0.2          1.3          1.6         n/a          n/a           n/a
Base Cost                   41.8         79.3         121.1         n/a          n/a          n/a
Physical Contingencies       3.5          5.6          9.0          n/a          n/a          n/a
Price Contingencies          2.5          6.1          8.6          n/a          n/a          n/a
TOTAL PROJECT COST          47.8         91.0         138.7        60.4         102.3        162.7
Taxes                        12.5         0.0          12.5         n/a          n/a          n/a
TOTAL PROJECT COST          35.3         91.0         126.2         n/a          n/a          n/a
n/a: not available. Data from other donors are consolidated and do not allow a distribution between the project
components li3ted in the table.
Table 8 B: Project Financing
SAR Estimate (US$M)                       Actual (US$M)
Source                 Local       Foreign       Total
IDA                                      7.8         54.2         62.0     17.7         49.1         66.8
Government                              29.1          4.3         33.4     22.5          2.5         25.0
Japan (JICA)                             5.1         10.0         15.1     12.8         29.8         42.5
France (FAC; CCCE)                       1.9         14.8         16.7     0.7          5.9          6.5
Germany (KfW; GTZ)                       2.3          4.6          6.9     1.7          3.9           5.5
EEC                                      0.6          1.2          1.8     3.8           8.8         12.5
UNDP                                     1.0          1.8          2.8      1.2         2.3           3.5
TOTAL                                   47.8         91.0        138.7    60.4          102.3        162.7



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Rehabilitation/Maintenance             Estimated ERR         ERR At Completion           NPV (CFAF)
Paved road rehabilitation                   18%                     41%                       0.5
Gravel/ earth road rehab./maint.            32%                     28%                       1.9
Rural road rehab./maint.                    20%                     N.A                      N.A
Road characteristics
Length (km)       Traffic (heavy vehicles)  Traffic (small vehicles)
Earth roads
Bouar-Bocaranga                                       145                      16                     47
Yaloke-Bouar-Garoua Boulai                            370                     32                      51
Baoro-Carnot-Berberati                                194                     56                      74
Berberati-Gamboula                                    91                      41                      58
Berberati-Yamando-Bambio                              275                     n.a.                    n.a.
Sibut-Bambari-Alindao                                 313                     19                      44
Bambari-Bria-Mouka                                    301                     11                      38
Damara-Bogambolo                                      97                       9                      45
Bogambolo-Bouca                                       116                      9                      45
M'Baiki-Mongoumba                                     82                      18                      29
M'Baiki-Boda                                          85                       9                      27
Paved roads
Bangui-Bossembele-Bossangoa-Bedayo                    148                     173                     472
Bangui-damara                                         64                      369                     785
Damnara-Sibut                                         111                     30                      59
Bangui-M'Baiki                                        98                      112                     509
Traffic volumes are expressed in vehicles per day.
Paved Roads: Flows of Costs and Benefits
Without project                                With project
VOC HV    VOC SV   Maintenance   VOC HV             VOC SV    Investment   Maintenance       Total
costs                                  costs         costs        costs
1994         463         280                        463          280          686                        -686
1995         473         287                        468          284                                     341
1996         483         294                        478          291                                     341
1997         493         301                        488          298                                     341
1998         503         308                        498          305                                     341
1999         514         315                        509          312                                     353
2000         514          315                       514          315                                      0
Earth Roads: Flows of Costs and Benefits
Without project                                With project
VOC HV    VOC SVl   Maintenance   VOC HV            VOC SV    Investment   Maintenance       Total
costs                                  costs         costs        costs
1994         514         315          321           514          315         2,843                     -2,522
1995         514         315          321           446          263         5,390                      -1,711
1996         514         315          321           446          263         2,606                      -1,073
1997         514         315          321           446          263          395                       3,285
1998         514         315          321           463          276                        321         2,519
1999         514         315          321           480          289                        321         1,679
2000         514          315          321          497          302                        321          840
2001         514          315          321          514          315                        321           0



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit    Section   Covenant  Present  Original    Revised          Description of Covenant         Comments
Agreement               Type      Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
Credit    3.01(a)       5         C      5/21/90              The Borrower declares its commitment  Complied with
to the objective of the Program and of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and , to this end,
shall carry out the Project through
MTPAT  and  MTAC   with  due
diligence and efficiency' and in
conformity    with    appropriate
administrative,    financial    and
engineering practices, and shall as
needed funds, facilities services and
other resources  required  for the
project.
3.01(b)      9         C       5/21/90              The Borrower and the Association   Complied with
shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on
progress achieved in carrying out the
Program.                                           l
3.01(c)      9         C                            Prior to each exchange of views, the  Complied with
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Association,  for  its  review  and
comment, a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Programl
in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.01(d)      9         C                            Without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 and,
except as the Borrower and  the
Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule of 4 o
. __________  ________    ___________      this  Agreement.
3.02        2        CP      3/31/91               Without limitation to the generality o   (a) Road Fund
the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) with    maintained
regard to the provision of funds, the
Borrower shall:                   (b) Not complied
(a) Maintain the Road Fund;         with. Annual
(b) take all measures required on its revenue was 1.9
part to increase the annual revenues o   billion CFAF in
the Road Fund from the current level 1991, 2.1 in 1992
of CFAF 1.8 billion to: (i) CFAF 2.7  and 2.3 in 1993.
billion in FY90; (ii) CFAF 2.2 billion
in FY 1991; (iii) CFAF 2.4 billion in (c) Not complied
FY 1992 and (iv) CFAF 2.7 billion in with. Road Fund
FY 1993;                         resources were used
(c) ensure that the proceeds of the to finance expenses
Road Fund shall be used solely to    at MTPAT.
defray the cost of road maintenance
work programs agreed upon with the (d) Complied with.
Association; (d)  ensure  that the



23
revenues of the Road Fund shall be at    (e) Audits
all times managed by an administrator conducted but with
assisted  by  a controller and  an    delays.
accountant, all with qualifications and
professional experience satisfactory to (f) Not complied
the Association; (e) have the Road with. Borrower
Fund accounts and records for each was late in issuing
FY  audited  in  accordance  with   audit reports.
appropriate   auditing    principles
consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
and (f) by March 31 of each year
submit the report of such audit to the
Association  for  its  review  and
comment.
3.03        2         C                           Except as the  Association  shall  Complied with
otherwise  agree,  procurement  o
goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be
financed out of proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions o
Schedule 3 to the credit agreement.
3.04        9        NC      9/30/91              The Borrower shall: (a) (i) formulate (a)(i) and (ii) Late
each year road maintenance schedule;  preparation and
(ii) submit it by September 30 of each   submission of
year to the Association for its review    maintenance
and comments; (b) (i) prepare an    programs.
annual transport sector investment
budget  (TSIB)  including   only  (b) not complied
investments proposals selected on the  with,. However,
basis  of  a   feasibility  study  investments were
demonstrating for each investment   conducted in
proposal an economic rate of return of  agreement with
at least 10%; (ii) by September 30 o   IDA..
each year submit said TSIB to the
Association  for  its  review  and
comments; and (iii) execute said TSIB
as agreed upon with the Association.
3.05        6        CP      12/31/90             The Borrower shall (a) by December EAP prepared but
31, 1990, submit to the Association an not implemented.
Environmental    Action     Plan
satisfactory to the Association; (b)
promptly     implement       said
Environmental Action Plan; and (c)
submit  to  the  Association  by
December 31 of each subsequent year
a report on the progress achieved in
the execution of said Environmental
Action Plan.
3.06        9        CD      12/31/90             The Borrower shall: (a) by December Training programs
31, 1990  formulate  the  training    have been
program  required to carry out Part  formulated and
D.5 (a) of the Project and submit it to training conducted.
the Association for its review  and  Delays in
comments; and  (b) (i) promptly  preparation and
implement said training program; and    execution.
(ii) by June 30 and December 31 o
each year furnish to the Association
for its review and comments a report



24
on  the  progress achieved  in  its
execution.
3.07        9         NC      1/31/91               The Borrower shall: (a) by December      Some
31,   1990   make   arrangements  improvements in
satisfactory  to  the Association  to  management of
improve the management of its current   current stock.
stock  of heavy  road  maintenance Privatisation study
equipment  (including  inter  alia conducted in 1991.
adequate provisions for renting out    Creation of
available machinery and equipment to   statutory
private contractors); (b) by December  corporation not
31,    1991,    implement    the acceptable to IDA.
recommendations of said study as they
shall have been agreed upon with the
Association.
3.08        9         CP                            The Borrower shall: (a) promptly upon Complied with very
completion furnish to the Association  partially.
for its review  and cornments the Recommendations
results and recommendations of the of studies on river
studies included in Parts BI. 1, B.2, C.2 transport could not
and D.2 (b) of the Project; and (b) be implemented.
implement the recommendations o No improvement on
said studies as they shall have been    procurement
agreed upon with the Association.     procedures.
4.01(a)       1        CD                            The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or Generally complied
cause to be maintained r ecords and      with
separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof
4.01 (b)      I         C                             The Borrower shall: (i) have records Audits were always
and accounts referred to in paragraph    late.
(a) of this section, including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal
year audited  in  accordance  with
appropriate   auditing    principles
consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope in such detail as the
Association  shall have  reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association
shall from  time to time reasonably
request.



25
4.01 (c)       1          C                               For all expenditures with respect to   Complied with
which withdrawals from  the Credit
Account were made on the basis o
statements   of   expenditure,  the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least
one year after the Association has
received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from  the
Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts,  orders,  invoices,  bills,
receipts   and   other   documents)
evidencing such expenditures;  (iii)
enable       the       Association's
representatives  to  examine  such
records, and (iv) ensure that such
records and accounts are included in
the  annual  audit  referred  to  in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that
the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year,
together with  the  procedures  and
internal controls involved  in  their
preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of prqject funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
S. =  Management aspects of the: project or executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                 regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                          13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD10.60                                             N/A
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned                          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks            US$            Weeks             US$
Preparation to Appraisal      N/A             N/A              77              185
Appraisal              N/A             N/A              45               108
Board-Effectiveness         N/A             N/A               5               13
Time taken to prepare *       60              N/A              127             306
Supervision             N/A             N/A             162.5            439
Completion              N/A             N/A
Total                N/A             N/A
* Time taken to prepare 15 months (quoted from the Memorandum of the President Report No. P5216-CAR)



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project  Month/  Number   Days in   Specialized   Participated  Implementation  Development Types of
Cycle         Year        of       Field    Staff skills  in Previous       Status       Objectives  problems
Personis            Represented    Mission
Through      April 87-     15        75     ECO, HE, PO    (yes/n)                                        N.A
Appraisal     March 89
Appraisal through  Oct.-89     6         14      SPO; TECO,                                                   N.A
Board approval                                      FA
Board approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision I    Aug.-90      I        n.a.        SPO                            I              I       FP,PP,P
Supervision 2    Nov.-90      1         13         SPO                            I              I       CLC,AF,
Supervision 3    July-91      1         5          SPO                            I              I       CLC,PM
Supervision 4    Oct.-91     6         16      SPO, TECO,                         I              I       CLC,PM
SSMES, RSS
Supervision 5    Dec.-92     2         14      SPO,TECO                          2               2        CLC,AF
Supervision 6    Dec.-93      1         7          HE                            2               2       CLC,PM
Supervision 7    Mar-94      4         27    HE,ME,HES,                          2               2       CLC,PM
FRS                                                     AF,SF
Supervision 8    Oct.-94     4         22     HE,ES,FA,TS                        S               S        As above
Supervision 9    July-95     2          12         FA                            U               U        As above
Supervision 10    Jan-96      5         18     FA,TE,TECO                         U              U        As above
Supervision 11    Oct.-96     5         15        TECO,                           U              U        As above
Completion
Key to Status
Performance Rating      Specialized Staf            Tvyes of Problems
I = Problem Free        ECO=Economist               CLC=compliance with
Legal Covenants
HS = Highly Satisfactory    TECO=Transport Economist    PP=Procurement Progress
2= Moderate Problems    RSS=Road Security Specialist   SP=Studies Progress
3= Major Problems       ME=Mechanical Engineer      PMP=Project Management
Performance
S= Satisfactory         ES=Equipment Specialist     TP=Training Progress
US= Unsatisfactory      TE=Transport Engineer       EA=Environmental
Aspects
n.a. Not available.     SSMES=Senior S&M            AF=Availability of Funds
Ent.Specialist
HRS=Human Resource         TAP=Technical Asst.
Specialist                 progress
FN=Financial A,nalyst      FP=Financial Performance



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
APPENDIX
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR has not been received.



NIJG_E: ,, .                                                                              .R          _                     22               /                  2"                                                     IBRD 22298R
,...-~,?                   CENTRAL,!
x _ _ z ~~~~~~~._    S   >   2                                 : ~~~~~~~ A F R IC A   -)\                                                        T  yl
i)i     C H A D                                                                                                                                                              CENTRALAFRICAN  REPUBLIC
I Ci E R I A     "     ',                     t..                                                    n                                                       ilR        \REPUBLIQUE CENTRgAFRICAINE
. 'o_n)g' '   *, P  /'No  ,P, .'''   L-}                                      20A '    1.f                                             '        \b                  TSP PRIOR! P/T'ROAD  INETWORK
-N -L,  ,  W _ ;            '<_                               . -                                      f                       ,                                       PST PROGRAMME D'ENTRETIEN DU
_                         MOCRATI                                                                                                                                                              - , CF RA
i C AMERO00ON    A5 ARICA                E IRIVEIULJ   O NIC                          N>                         r                                                                                                           G r
UGANCA                                                                                   "                                                    0--E -ECD1eOPLEGOO 
CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                               T- C5  O  DPtGOP' D
16- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.N  18-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-'OPF
\           C             H                   E                                                                                                                                                        R D  4AGRPOR
,  y   \Ts   , L <,_ ._ . J )'E--OuGddLl                                                                      t      t                        'Al I tz,eL-ErReo.ReG
AMEROON               M;, *- 5                    MorkOpndo     ,           -        DoKT oao                                                                       ,                                                          P1
L t>S^S c tJFra e  A;  f>  7                                                                                                                                                                                         S  U   D   A   N
a                                I (   i   A   {  *    g   tM}bres                      i+            vMa 590                 h b
I  p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
\GaroQuRR ll'                                                                                                                                                                                                  -s.  SUDANt7C  ~  \!'  
0flocoranga                                                                                                                                                                      N1~~~~~~~~~GiNR
~~~~l-       .. ..+;-, Pt................. ,-a,i'X
/T  '}                                           =  X,O,jA/  <M1                                                                                                                                                       ,I 
,>9 ~  ~~~~ -_                              OSANG          BOO (' ;"   I '9 /                    }7A                                              NA5U
e    -'  - ' ? _  vi,,l   '.  ' -7>'2        S9~~~~~~~~~~c?  S                                            .  _   -. _  ^n  -f  IOU:.90__                                              PERP
BOOAR ~       NH-                                                                                   MBR
Ba bat,    4       B,r  ->                                               SNUP .   I'Pob  igyino 
\\       'O>A            _G _                                                                                           Migl 4S    r  ogun=DMCAI
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
\  X    j  ;           )                        REPUBLIC OF CONGO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAGA5O
BERBERAT                                 d. "
tOEk                               1'~~~~~~~~W  iK
N                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC
~~~~~~ ~~~~REPUBLIC OF CONGO
CAME  ROON  ?                             EG       PO Eo      200       25D KILOMETERS
CAMEROON                                                                                                   I _ _ _  _    __      _    _    _    _                                              Thin= atp mOOpoe byZtheMop Djsgno UIt of The W-rd Ba-k.
/           ~~~CONGO                                         __       _    __       _     __      _     _
10                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~The bore, coods deoination- a-yd nther,trfottt-
ilf/  /                    L)             so               loo             lSOMIES                                        or occeptonee 0f so Iaondsrieah
p4-\1 I. ,S                                                                 20'                                  22'                                    24                 .1'









IMAGING
Report No.:       1681
Type:    ICR



