Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
g            ZQ~- Z.-S - C
Report No.8261-CAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
March 29, 1990
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Ibis document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E0UIVALENTS
Currency Unit   c   CFA Franc (CFAF)
USf1.00 = CFAF 80
CFAF 1 millton   a   US3,3383
FISCAL YEAR
January S1   -  December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m) a    3.28  feet (It)
1 kilometer (km)   a   0.62  mile (ml)
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =   0.39  square mile (sq ml)
1 metric ton (t)   =   2,204 pounds (lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
item                     ----------  English/French                            …-       …
ACCF          Agence Centrafriceine de Communication Fluviale
ADECAF        Agence de D6veloppement de la Zone Cafti6re
ANDE          Agence Nationale de D6veloppement de l'Elevage
ASECNA        Agence pour Ia S6curite de la Navigation A6rIenne en Afrique et I Madagascar
ATC           Agence Transcongolaise de Communication
BARC          Bureau d'Affr6tement Routier Centrafricain
CCCE          Cairse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
DPW           Department of Public Works
EMP           Economic Management Project
ENERCA        Central African Electric Company
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
G.T.C.        Croupement des Transporteurs Centrafricains
GTZ           Cesellshaft fUir Technische Zusammenarbeit
JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW           Kredit Anstalit fUr Wiederaufbau
MDR           Minist&re de Developpement Rural
MTAC          Ministero des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile
MTPAT         Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire
OPPER         Op6rat;on Promotion Petits Entrepreneurs Routiors
PETROCA       Central African Petroleum Company
PPAR          Project Performance Audit Report
RMUCO         Road Maintenance Management and Coordination Group
SAGA          Soci6t, Frangaise de Transport
SCEVN         Service Commun d'Entr.tien des Voles Navigables
SOCADA        Socl6t6 Contrafricaine de Developpement Agricole
SOCATRAF      Soci6t6 Centrafricaine des Transports Fluviaux
UDEAC         Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale
UERBO         Unite d'Entretien Routier Bossemb6l"-Garoua-Boulal (RN3)



FOR OFCIL4 USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . .  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    v
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                 1
A.  Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
B.  Geographic and Economic Context  . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
II. TRANSPORT SECTOR ISSUES               ..                                      2
A. The Transport System.                                                     2
B. The Road Sub-sector.                                                     7
C.  Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector . . .                   13
III.  TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY MEASURES . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  14
IV. THE PROJECT .17
A.  Transport Sector Program and Objectives   . . . . . . .                17
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 18
C.  Road Sector Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 19
D.  River Transport Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 26
E.  Civil Aviation Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 27
F.  Other Items   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                27
G.  Project Costs and Financing   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  28                 F
H.  Responsibilities and Monitoring of Project
Implementation ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
I. Procurement .30
J. Disbursements .31
K.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting . . . . . . . . . .                 32
L.  Impact on Environment and Employment . . . . . . . . .                 32
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .33
VI.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE ROAD FUND  . . . . . . . . . .                  36
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .                  38
This report was prepared by Mr. John Schwartz (Task Manager, Senior Project Officer) on the basis
of findings of a pr-paration mission in December 1988; a preappraisal mission in April/May 1989; and
on appraisal mission in October/November 1989, consisting of Messre. John Schwartz (Miasion Leader),
Richard Senou (Financial Analyst), Chriatian Araud (Consultant Economist), Jacquea Bret (Consultant
Engineer), and Andr6 Oaraud (Consultant Engineer).  Secretarial work and typing wer, done by
Mr. Jacques Hellumn and Miss Marcelle Houle.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of contents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
2-1  CAR Exports  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
2-2  Road Network and Traffic Density . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
2-3  Price Structure of Petroleum Products  . . . . . . . . . .  42
3-4  General Policy Declaration ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
3-5  Program of Policy Measures and Actions . . . . . . . . . .  49
3-6  Priority Road Network  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  56
4-7  Decision  Table  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  57
4-8  Pilot Actions for Infrastructure Works . . . . . . . . . .  66
4-9  Technical Assistance Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
4-10 MTPAT's Reorganization Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  71
4-11 MTAC's Reorganization Chart . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    72
4-12 Sumzary Accounts by Project Component  . . . . . . . . . .  73
4-13 Implementation Schedule  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  76
4-14 Schedule of IDA Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  77
6-15 Road Fund Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . ... .  79
MAPSs IBRD No. 18095R1   Transportation and Population Density
IBRD No. 21981R    1989 Highway Maintenance Program
IBRD No. 22298    TSP Priority Road Network Maintenance Program



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of the Central African Republic (CAR)
B8n.fICIarles:            Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Development (MTPAT); Ministry
of Trarsport and Civil Aviation (MTAC); and Socit&6 Centrafricaine de
Developpement Agricole (SOCADA).
Credit Amount:            SDR 4C8.  million (US862.0 million)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years* maturity
Project Description:      The Transport Sector Project (TSP) will finance the transport sector
component of CAR's 1991-93  public  Investment program and will be
accompanied by a substantial number of policy measures to Improve sector
performance.   These measures Include deregulation of transport and
Institutional reforms of MTPAT, MTAC, BARC (Bureau d"Affrbtement Routier
Centrafricain --Road Freight Bureau), CCAC (Conseil des Chargeurs
Centrafricain -- Shipping Council) and ASECNA-CAR; river transport tariff
reform; Improved transport sector Investment planning; privatization of
road maintenance and improved domestic resource mobilization for road
maintenance financing; a road safety program, and Improved public
procurement procedures. The TSP Includes the following components:
Road Sector Component
(a)  rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority national and regional
road network of about 4,000 km of which 420 km are paved; rehabilIt-
ation and maintenance of 720 km of rural roads; and ferry and bridge
repaIr;
(b) reconstruction to paved standards of part of National Road NR3;
Including road works on National Road NR1 necessitated by the creation
of a lake at the UMBali hydro-electric dam facilities under
construction (Energy Project USfI8 M 1978-CA);
(c) provision of equipment, vehicles and spare parts for routine road
maintenance and ferry services;
(d)  development of the national construction Industry to encourage prIvate
sector participation in road maintenance, Including technical assis-
tance to private contractors;
(e) rehabilitation of office facilities and improvement of the bus and
freight station In Bangui;



- ii -
(f)  strengthening of the National Public Works Laboratory; technical
assistance and logistical support toMUTPAT in programming, supervision
and monitoring of road works; training of MTPAT staff, Including
seminars and scholarships;
(9) detailed engineering and supervision of the rehabilitation and
regraveling works; detailed engineering of the bridge over the M'baore
River and swamp crossing at Bambio; and
(h) implementation of a road safety program.
River Transport Component
(a) pre-feasibility and feasibility studies regarding the construction
of a river flow regulating dam on the Oubangui River; and
(b) study to review and rationalize SOCATRAF's river transport tariff.
Civil Aviation Component
(a) improvement of airport security, studies regarding the recrsanization
of ASECNA's services in CAR and audit of ASECNA's accounts; and
(b)  spot improvement of the runway at Berberati airport, and feasibility
study to examine the possibility of adapting Berberati airport for
regional air traffic.
Technical Asslstance. Training, and Special Studies
Provision of technical assistance and training of MiPAT, UTAC, and Planning
Cell (IPCTP) staff, Including seminars and scholarships, to improve
managerial and technical capability, and to prepare the next phase of the
transport sector Investment program; strengthening of UTPAT's supervision
capacity, and assistance and training In procurement; carrying out of
special studies to Improve CAR's procurement system, to promote Its local
constr&'ction industry, to develop a master plan for rural roads
rehabilitation and maintenance, and to establish a computerized program
to monitor overall project implementation and expenditure.
Prolect Benefits:          The TSP is an integrated package of transport sector policy measures and
sector investments comprising priority road network, river and air
transport improvements. Non-quantiflable bonefits would be liberalization
of the transport industry; increased cost efficiency of road maintenance
through privatization; more efflcient use of loc: r-sources for road
maintenance through Improved planning erd monitoring of the road
maintenance programs; stronger national economic management by systematic
transport sector planning; reduced transport costs through improved control
of axle load limits, rationalizing SOCATRAF's river transport tariff
system, end streamlining CAR's transport institutions (BARC, CACC, ASECNA);
substantial reorganization and institutional reform of the mnagement and



- iII -
operation of MTPAT and MTAC; launching a road safety program; and an
tmproved public procuremont system. Quantifiablo benefits would be reduced
vehicle operating costs and reduced costs of transport services.
Project Risks:            Institutional weaknesses In project management constitute the main project
risk.   Satisfactory execution  of the  national  and  regional  road
rehabilitation and maintenance program depends on the abiIlty of the Road
Maintenance Management and Coordination Group (RMMCG) at MTPAT to organize
and implement, and the Road Fund to finance, these programs efficiently.
Similarly, the efficiency of the rural road rehabilitation and maintenance
program using brigades of the local cotton agency (SOCADA) depends on
SOCADA's ability to restore Its implementation capacity to satisfactory
levels, and on MTPAT's capacity to establish ar efficient rural roads
coordination and programming unit.   The possibility of these risks
resulting In cost increases has been taken into account by a careful
calculation of unit prices of the road works, provision of appropriate
contingencies, and support to the procurement system. On the manpower
side, provisions have been made, among others with technical assistance
and training programs, for strengthening MTPAT's and MTAC's implementation
and supervision capacity, the Road Fund's funding mechanism and efficiency,
and MTPAT and MTAC's Institutional organization.
Project Cost Estimates
CFAF Millions ------    ----- USS Million   …         Foreign   Total % of
Category       Local     Forelan     Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange   Base  Cost
RN1 Reconstr.
M'Ball Dam      859.8   1,444.2    1,304.0    2.9        4.6      7.7        4.0%        6.3X
Paving RN3         967.0   2,229.0    3,196.0      3.2      7.4    10.7         6.1K        8.8%
Paved Rds.Rehab  2,024.8    8,367.2    5,372.0    6.7       11.2    17.9        9.3a       14.6x
Graveled Rds.    5,940.0   7,590.8   13,630.8   19.8    26.3    46.1           20.9%       37.2x
Rural Roads        715.8    1,044.9    1,780.7    2.4       3.5       6.9       2.9%        4.8%
Crit. Points       363.0      537.0      900.0    1.2       1.8       3.0       1.5%        2.5X
Privatization      289.5   1,188.5    1,478.0    1.0        4.0       4.9       8.3%        4.1I
Civil Aviation      71.8      170.4      242.0    0.2       0.6      0.8        0.5%        0.7%
Inst. Support      873.2    4,540.4    6,413.6     2.9    15.1    18.0         12.6X       14.9%
Studies            250.4      874.1    1,124.5    0.8        2.9      8.7       2.4X        3.1X
Pilot Actlons      144.2      396.8      540.0    0.6        1.8      1.8       1.1        1.5S
PPF                 70.6      897.4      488.0     0.2      1.3       1.6       1.1K        1.3K
Total
Base Cost       12,549.9  23,777.7   36,327.6   41.8        79.3   121.1       65.5x     1lW.0X
Physical
Contingencies    1,037.8   1,676.8    2,714.6      3.5      6.6      9.0        4.0X        7.65
Price
Contingencies      738.0    1,831.2    2.s69.2     2.6      6.1       8.6       4.4         7.1K
Total
Project Cost    14 39.7   27.285.7                47.8    91.0   138.7         66.6e      114.5%
Taxes            8,738.7               3,736.7   12.6                12.5
Total
Project Cost    10.589.0              37.874.?   35.3               128.2
(Net of Taxes)    A- 7847 3.                                        2.



- Iv -
Financing Plan
------ USfSMllion -
Cofinanciers          Local     Forelan   Total
Government /e          29.1       4.8     33.4
IbA                     7.8      54.2     62.8
lapan (JICA)           6.1      10.0    15.1
France (FAC; CCCE)      1.9      14.8     16.7
Germany (KfW; GTZ)      2.8       4.6      6.9
EEC                     0.8       1.2      1.8
UNDP                    1.0       1.8      2.8
Total                  47.8      90.9    138.7
/a  Including US112.S U equivalent for tae"s.
Estimated Disburse'ents from IDA Credit
(US2 Million)
…    ----          - IDA  Fiscal Years -------
Category           FY91        FY92     FY93     FY94     FY95     FY96      FY97
Annual               8.8 L       6.6     18.7     18.0    10.6    6.20         1.8
Cumulative           8.3        16.8    B0.6      48.5    64.0    60.2    62.0
/a  Includes USS1. U PPF refinancing, and US8S.B M for the RN1 M'Bali
reconstruction works.
Rates of Return:          Paved road rehabilltation:  18X
Gravel/earth road rehabilitation and maintenance: 82X
Rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance: 20X
Estimated Prolect.
Completion:             June 1998
Maps:                     IBRD No. 18096Ri   Transportation and Population Density
IBRD No. 21981R    1989 Highway Maintenance Program
IBRD No. 22298     TSP Priority Road Network Maintenance Program
AF1IN
March 29, 1990



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
Project File Code
Document Title                                    and/or
Bank Document No.
I.    Sector Background
1-1   Etude de l'industrie des transports routiers
BCEOM (February, 1983)
1-2   Etude d'ame.ioration de la navigation sur
la riviere Oubangui - SOGREAH (Septembre 1986)
1-3   Etude sur l'amenagement et l'amelioration
des couloirs de transport Bangui-Outre-Mer
- UNICONSULT (December, 1987)
1-4   L'Enclavement de la Republique Centrafricaine
et l'exploitation de la voie transcamerounaise
Raoul Schabille (August, 1989)
1-5   Strategie des Transports - Plan d'Action,
Alain Bernard (November, 1989)
1-5   Transport Sector Strategy Note                             8315-CAR.
- AFIIN (December 27, 1989)
1-6   Une Strategie au Transport pour le
D4veloppement - Documentation for the
Transport Sector - Donor Consultation Meeting
Bangui, March 1990



- vi -
Project File Code
Document Title                                    and/or
Bank Document No.
II.    Project Preparation and Background Studies
2-1   Creation d'une Cellule Interministerielle
de Planification et de Coordination des
Projets de Transport - BCEOM - Rapport de
Mission (August 1988)
2-2   Preparation du 3&me Projet d'Assistance
Technique et du Projet Sectoriel de Transport
BCEOM Rapport de Mission pour l'assistance
technique A la formation (August 1988)
2-3   Rappott de l'Etude Geotechnique associee A
l'etude technique et economique des pistes
rurales en Republique Centrafricaine
Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux
Publics, Bangui
(27 avril 1989)
2-4   Rapport de presentation du programme
triennal d'investissement 1989 - 1991
CAR - Planning Secretariat (Avril, 1989)
2-5   Organisation et Plan d'Effectifs du
Ministere des Transports et de l'Aviation
Civile - SEMA GROUP (June, 1989)
2-6   Organisation et Plan d'Effectifs du
Ministere des Travaux Publics et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire - SEMA GROUP
(June, 1989)
2-7   Rapport d'audit sur les comptes annuels
au 31 decembre, 1988 - Cameroun Audit
Conseil (July, 1989)



- vii -
Project File Code
Document Title                                    and/or
Bank Document No.
2-8   Flux de transport de la Republique
CaDtrafricaine - Interministerial Planning
Cell for Transport and Public Works
(September, 1989)
2-9   Projet Sectoriel des Transports                             AIS D34601
Secteur Infrastructures Routieres BCEOM
(October, 1989)
2-10  Projet Sectoriel des Transports
Secteur des Trarnsports BCEOM
(October, 1989)
2-11  P:tojet Sectoriel des Transports                            AIS D34603
Etude technique et economique des pistes
rurales - BCEOM (October, 1989)
2-12  Etude de faisabilite sociale
et ecologique de la zone d'influence
de la route future Boda-Bambio-Yamando
SECA/AGRER (November, 1989)
2-13  Deviation de la route nationale 1 (RN1)
entre Bangui et Bosssembele
Etude de faisabilite - DIWI WALTER
(December 1989)
AFlIN March 1990



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      Since 1982, the Government of the Central African Republic (CAR) has
undertaken a considerable effort to rebuild its economy.  With support from
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies, the Government set out to implement a
broad based rehabilitation strategy, which focussed on promoting agricultural
production and exports, and on reducing fiscal imbalances. During 1982-86, these
efforts resulted in considerable increases in average yield of cotton and food
crop production, though coffee production remained stagnant. However, except for
exports of raw diamonds, which grew by about 6-10%, total exports (including
coffee, cotton and wood) declined by about 0.62 per annum in real terms, becaus.
of the 1983/84 drought and have continued to decline since then due to a sluggish
international economy. Merchandise exports declined from CFAF 58.7 billion in
1985 to CFAF 39 billion in 1988, while the debt service ratio increased from
15.1? in 1986 (after debt relief) to 23 and 29% in 1987/88, respectively. In
order to reverse these deteriorating trends, the Government has launched a
medium-term structural adjustment program since 1986, supported by two SAL
operations.
1.02      In support of the ongoing efforts under the structural adjustment
program to improve agricultural production and exports, and to reduce the cost
of domestic and international trade, the Government has requested IDA to help
develop and finance a transport sector project that would strengthen CAR's
transport system, both domestically and internationally, and rationalize the
sector's policy framework. Past IDA financing in the transport sector has con-
centrated on reconstruction and maintenance of the main national and regional
road network and training of local staff, but part of this effort was interrupted
by a period of political difficulties, and some of the results were lost. During
the Fourth Highway project (US$18.0 H Credit of 1982). which was completed in
1987, the road network was substantially rehabilitated, but more needs to be
done to shore up CAR's international transport links, strengthen its road
maintenance capacity, improve the rural road network, and build a durable
institutional capability to successfully plan, finance, exezute and manage
transport sector investment and expenditure. The proposed Transport Sector
Project (TSP) aims at achieving these broader sector objectives, which may
require a decade of concerted donor effort to accomplish fully, and at
complementing the macro-economic objectives being pursued under the structural
adjustment program.
B. Geographic and Economic Context
1.03      CAR covers an area of about 620.000 knm. It is landlocked by the Sahel
countries Chad and Sudan in the north, by Zalre and Congo in the south, and
Cameroon in the west (see map: IBRD No. 180950R1), and depending on the transport
route (para. 2.01) is about 1,650 to 1,850 km away from the sea.   In the
southwest, CAR is covered by a regional equatorial rain forest, stretching over
north Congo and east Cameroon.  Most of the country lies on a high rolling
plateau, which presents no particular geographical obstacles to transport. While
the north and northeastern parts are relatively dry, the south and southwest
experience heavy rain fall during the wet season posing heavy demands on road



- 2 -
maintenance.    CAR's  relatively  sparse population  (about  2.7 million)  is
concentrated in the east and southwest, where the most fertile areas are located
and levels of economic activity are highest. The eastern part of the country is
virtually uninhabited, making it difficult for the Government to economically
justify road infrastructure investments, although political circumstances may
dictate maintaining continued access to the region.
1.04      About 602 of the population lives in rural areas, mostly immediately
along the roads. Bangui, the capital, holds 49? of the urban population (with
about 600,000 inhabitants). Other important regional towns (Bambari in the east,
Bouar in the west, and Berberati in the southwest) have smaller populations
ranging between 20,000 and 40,000 inhabitants. The tropical forest area is
inhabited by pygmies.  Per capita income is about US$330 (1987), ranking CAR
among the least developed countries. Agriculture (cotton, coffee, forestry)
represents about 42? of GDP and 56? of commodity exports, services 40X, mining
(diamonds, gold, some manufacturing) 15Z, and construction 32. About 802 of the
population lives from agriculture sharing plots half and half for subsistence
farming and cash crop production.
1.05      Due to CAR's deteriorating terms of trade and the decline in its major
agricultural exports, growth of GDP is expected to remain modest over the next
few years. The broad objective is to achieve an average real growth of 42 per
annum by 1991. Per capita income is unlikely to increase much during this period,
and a substantial foreign capital inflow will be necessary to help CAR strengthen
the foundation for improved per capita income. A substantial portion of CAR's
budget is supported by external financing (about 50o of total expendi-
tures -- current and capital expenditures -- and 99? of the overall deficit, in
1987). As a result, debt service has increased (26? of total domestic revenue
in 1986) and outstanding debt has grown to US$400 M (41.5Z of GDP). Therefore,
CAR will have to be very selective in making future investments. Moreover, since
external financing is used to support a substantial amount of current expendi-
ture, less foreign resources are available for capital investments in the
productive sectors. These circumstances dictate an investment strategy focussing
on projects with the highest economic return and affordable to CAR. In keeping
with this reality, the TSP has been developed to achieve improved productivity
and efficiency of the transport sector in line with CAR's macro-economic
parameters set in the context of the structural adjustment process, as well as
to implement the necessary Lnstitutional reforms to permit the Government to
sustain the project's achievements over time.
II. TRANSPORT SECTOR ISSUES
A. The Transport System
2.01      Transport Routes.  CAR's international surface transport is divided
over the river route via the Oubangui to Brazzaville (Congo) and from there by
rail to Pointe Noire (1,850 km), and the road route to Douala, Cameroon (1,650).
Close to 75? of CAR's trade takes the river route (with about 10? of wood
shipments by river being evacuated over the Sangha, a tributary to the Oubangui
river in eastern CAR); about 23? travels by road and only 2? by air. Due to the
sluggish economy, total import/export traffic declined from about 312,000 tons
in 1984 to about 251,500 tons in 1987 (ALanex 2-1). This declining trend, which
is likely to persist in the near future, indicates that future increases in trade



- 3 -
volumes could be absorbed by the present infrastructure, and that CAR's emphasis
should, therefore, be on maintaining existing investments.
2.02      Bulk goods (fuel, cement, wood) generally take the cheaper river route,
while the Cameroon route is more attractive for higher value commodities
(vehicles, beverages, foodstuffs) and smaller shipments. Fuel and cement imports
are shipped from Kinshasa by river. Of CAR's export products, wood is mostly
exported by river, as well as smaller quantities of coffee and cotton. On the
Cameroon route, about 1O of imported goods are shipped by rail from Douala to
Ngaoundere in Cameroon and from there by road to Bangui, while most exported
goods are shipped directly by road to Douala. The main di-advantages of the
river route, albeit cheaper, are (a) the long shipping timt about 30 days, as
opposed to 5-8 days by road to Douala and often longer for heavy goods such as
wood) causing higher financial and insurance charges; (b) damages resulting from
transshipment at Brazzaville (river to rail), port handling at Pointe Noire, and
pilferage along the route; and (c) increasingly low water levels of the Oubangi
River. River transport is interrupted during the dry season (February-June), when
CAR's main agricultural products, coffee and agriculture, are harvested and
exported. Cotton, coffee, and even wood are increasingly exported by road because
of the lower tariffs currently charged for road transport to Douala port, while
flower is again imported by road because of more rapid service at a cost that
is easily absorbed by local market forces. Thus, the two routes are competing
and complementary at the same time, while quantities and composition of freight
over both routes change with the fluctuations in the cost of transport. Howev-
er, due to consistent dryness in eastern CAR, declining water levels will
continue to affect the navigability of the river. The low-water mark of the river
has declined by 64 cm in ten years, and is expected to decline by another 40 cm
in the future, making CAR more and more dependent on the Cameroon route for
access to the sea.
2.03      International road transport is shared between about seven larger CAR
transporters (owing about 10 to 18 trucks) and Cameroonian transporters. The
latter are generally operating larger fleets and have the upper hand in road
transport to and from CAR (about 80Z of total traffic). Domestic transport is
mostly informal, less lucrative, and handled by transporters owing only a few
trucks. Because of the limited supply of viable domestic transport, several
merchants and state agencies (SOCADA, PETROCA) operate their own trucking fleet.
2.04      A bilateral agreement between the Republic of Cameroon and the Central
African Republic governs international road transport between Douala and Bangui.
This agreement, which was originally concluded in 1969 ("convention de
Berberati") was revised in August 1989 and stipulates that CAR and Cameroonian
transporters share transport on 60-40Z tonnage basis, respectively, between
Douala and Bangui.  However, while previously transport was chiefly by road,
Cameroon has obtained that heavy goods (including wood and wood products,
fertilizer, engines and non containerized construction materials) are to be
transported to and from Douala by Cameroon railways in order to augment the use
of its ailing railway services. This may result in costly delays for CAR's wood
exports because Cameroon railway wagons and terminals are under equipped to
handle heavy transports and transhipment efficiently, which would force wood
exporters to choose the less costly but also slow river route. At present,
railway transport of these goods is not yet enforced and CAR may seek an excep-
tion to this rule in accordance with the agreement's provisions for recourse.



- 4 -
2.05      Air transport has become mainly international, since CAR has liquidated
its domestic airline under the state enterprise reform measures of the structural
adjustment program. During 1982-1988, annual international passenger traffic
numbered around 50,000 persons and annual freight transport 5,000 tons. Domestic
commercial air transport is insignificant and limited to a few regional towns
serviced once or twice per week by two private charter companies. In addition
to Bangui Airport, which has been adapted to receive jumbo airliners, about
30 small airports and air strips are scattered throughout the country, of which
13 are serviced by permanent staff.
2.06      Sector Institutions.  The Ministries of Transport and Aviation (MTAC)
and of Public Works and Territorial Development (MTPAT) have joint respon-
sibilities for the transport sector. MTAC is responsible for transport policy
making, tariff setting, surface and air transport regulations, and meteorology.
MTPAT is entrusted with the technical execution of works and urban affairs,
which, in additio.a to maintenance of urban roads, also includes cadastral mat-
ters. MTPAT has a staff of about 1,100, 75Z of which is employed in the Road
Maintenance Department of the Directorate of Public Works (DPW). MTAC has a much
smaller staff of about 80, half of whom are employed in the Civil Aviation and
Meteorology Directorate. MTAC also supervises several specialized agencies, such
as SOCATRAF (river transport), BARC (road transport), ASECNA-CAR (airport manage-
ment and air transport services) and CCAC (maritime transport), which are
described below.
2.07      Both Ministries and their subsidiary agencies are seriously constrained
by lack of competent technical staff, and operate with limited implementation
capacity. There is no appropriate statis ical data base in support of transport
policy making which hampers decision making.   Functional lines of internal
communication are inefficient, with MTAC exerting little control over its
subsidiary agencies. MTPAT's staff is burdened with too many undefined tasks,
making it difficult to focus on the specific requirements of road maintenance
planning and execution. As part of the SAL II measures, an administrative reform
program has been prepared financed by UNDP with IDA acting as executing agency
which has recommended institutional changes and personnel reduction for major
ministries, including MTAC and MTPAT. Additional institutional reviews have been
carried out during the TSP feasibility studies, and agreements with regard to
personnel reductions and adjustments in the organization charts of both
Ministries are to be reached during negotiations.
2.08      Despite several years of training and technical assistance, produc-
tivity has remained low and additional training and technical assistance will
remain necessary for some time to come. However, such programs should be more
clearly tied to regularly supervised productivity improvement targets, work
environment improvements to make trained staff useful, and built-in requirements
for a declining need in expatriate personnel. In order to strengthen the capacity
of both Ministries in preparation of the implementation of the TSP, an interim
training program is being financed under the Economic Management Project (Credit
1971-CA), focussing on improved personnel management, reviving the MTPAT train-
ing center, improving equipment maintenance with a view to possible privatizat-
ion of equipment repair, and strengthening sectoral investment planning and
computerized information systems.
2.09      Transport Agencies.  Transport is regulated by several specialized
agencies, all responsible to the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTAC).
River transport is handled by SOCATRAF (Societe Centrafricaine des Transports



Fluviaux), a mixed economy company created in 1980, and owned 51Z by the
Government and 49Z by SAGA, a French forwarding agent, which manages the company.
It operates a fleet consisting of 47 pusher tugs, and 102 barges, which have been
gradually repaired with foreign assistance, and a river port at Bangui, with
300,000 tons capacity.  The present decline in transport demand has caused a
surplus capacity of about 25? in SOCATRAF's fleet and in the short term no new
investments appear necessary. However, due to the aging of the fleet, and an
expected increase in transport requirements in the early nineties, replacement
investments would soon be necessary to maintain capacity. Port facilities are
adequate for the time being and capable of handling current container traffic,
which has steadily increased but is still modest at about 2,500 units per year.
River transport between Bangui and Brazzaville is shared by bilateral agreement
between CAR and Congo, with SOCATRAF carrying 80? and ATC (Agence Transcorgolaise
de Communication) 20Z. SOCATRAF has the sole transporting rights for merchan-
dise from and to Zaire. SOCATRAF functions efficiently and breaks even on its
operations, thanks in part to concessionary financing (Germany, France) of
equipment renewal and repair, and technical assistance provided by France to
maintain and operate the fleet.
2.10      Road transport is regulated by BARC (Bureau d'Affr&tement routier
Centrafricain), also a mixed economy agency. Private shareholders consist of
a transport syndicate (GTC -- Groupement des Transporteurs Centrafricains), hold-
ing 202 of BARC's equity, several forwarding agents (40?) and the National
Employers Federation (7Z).  The Government holds 33Z.  BARC does not operate
trucks, but allocates road transport contracts between shippers and truckers,
and manages the road transport station (*gare routi6re") in Bangui, where all
transport is handled.   It assigns shipments arbitrarily ("tour de role") to
transporters with the objective of giving all transporters a fair share of the
business.   To enable smaller truckers to participate, it provides financial
assistance in purchasing and operating their vehicles. In addition, it collects
a Government tax (TCA -- taxe sur le chiffre d'affaires -- 16.5Z) over the value
of domestic transport contracts, which it transfers to the Treasury on behalf
of the transporter (para. 2.34). Because of its monopolistic position, it is
allowed to charge a 10? penalty commission over contracts to which it is no
party and can enforce this rule because valid travel documents (Olettre de
voiture') can only be obtained through its offices.   However, due to BARC's
inefficiency, and to avoid the risk of their goods being assigned to financially
insolvent or poorly equipped truckers, shippers and transporters have turned away
from using BARC as a mediating agency and about 80? of all transport contracts
are now concluded privately.   Barc's accounts are in balance thanks to the
revenues from the 10X commission, which support, among others, the financial
assistance  to small transporters.   BARC's monopoly position unnecessarily
increases the transport cost. As part of the measures of the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, the Government decreed, as a condition of negotiations of the
proposed IDA Credit for the TSP, the abolishment of BARC's monopoly and the
elimination of the penalty commission.
2.11      Bangui's airport is serviced and maintained by ASECNA (Agence pour la
SecuritS de la Navigation Adrienne en Afrique et Madagascar, with headquarters
based in Dakar), of which CAR is a member. ASECNA is responsible for managing
CAR''s air space and technical installations and related services, and in
accordance with its Articles of Agreement also handles national services such
as the commercial management of Bangui's airport and several secondary air fields
in the interior, and the management of the coordinated meteorological network.
Its budgetary revenues are derived from airport fees, and a State subsidy, which



- 6 -
in 1988 amounted to CFAF 91.6 million (US$300,000). ASECNA's CAR budget is in
deficit, because of delayed payments by CAR, and also because of lesser revenues
following declining air traffic. ASECNA's operational costs in terms of personnel
are higher than necessary because of over staffing. Part of its meteorological
equipment needs replacement. The Government desires to rationalize ASECNA's
performance in CAR and intends to carry out an audit of ASECNA"s accounts and
operations which should provide recommendations for improvements (para. 3.06).
2.12      CCAC (Conseil Centrafricain des Chargeurs), which was created in 1979,
regulates maritime transport of CAR imports and exports and, in accordance with
its statutes, is responsible for obtaining most favorable sea transport tariffs
for CAR shippers. Like BARC for road transport, CCAC maintains the monopoly for
allocating maritime transport contracts. In 1986, CCAC also assumed the maritime
transport  rights of LCA  ("Lignes  Centrafricaines"), which,  in a business
arrangement with a German-Cypriote shipping company, briefly operated sea
transports with Europe before it was dissolved by the new Government in 1984.
CCAC operations are funded from a 0.50X general import tax of which half is
allocated to CCAC. It obtains additional revenues from the sale of "transport
rights" of CAR merchandise to foreign shipping companies and forwarding agents.
In doing so, it is faced with a conflict of interest in making efforts to sell
such transport rights at the highest possible price, while CAR shippers seek the
lowest possible rate. It has continued negotiating transport arrangements with
shipping companies and forwarding agents that would limit competition and
increase transport rates. MTAC has not approved CCAC's proposals, as they are
in conflict with the liberalization policies adopted by the Government. MTAC
established a Task Force to review CCAC's operations and has decided, as part
of its sector policy measures, to turn CCAC into a service organization
supporting the interests of CAR shippers rather than those of foreign shipping
companies, and to improve CCAC's professional competence through appropriate
training and technical assistance.
2.13      Transport Costs.   Transport costs are high because of CAR's long
distance to the sea; multiple transshipment on the river route; relatively high
costs of fuel in CAR for road transport because of the fuel tax, part of which
finances road maintenance through the Road Fund (para. 2.29); high vehicle
operating costs, especially due to the low maintenance levels in neighboring
countries; dearness of spare parts resulting from high customs tariffs; and
monopolistic  rates  charged by  international  shipping companies.    Surface
transport rates charged by forwarding agents for imported products are general-
ly twice as high than for exported products because charges for the empty back
haul of trucks or containers are included.  Road transport tariffs amount to
about CFAF 50-60/ton-km for imported goods (CFAF 82,500-99,000/ton) and
CFAF 20-35/ton-km (CFAF 23,000/ton-56,000/ton) for exported goods, due to com-
petition for shipments. The transport rates for imported goods do not meet much
resistance, because importers face relatively little competition and can recover
the cost.
2.14      For river transport, some 19 different tariffs apply, with preferential
rates for cement and fuel imports on the one hand, and coffee and cotton exports
on the other. Tariffs range from CFAF 10/ton-km to CFAF 17/ton-km for the river
portion (Bangui-Brazzaville), and CFAF 13.61/ton-km to CFAF 30.63/ton-km for the
whole distance to Pointe Noire (amounting to CFAF 25,000-56,000 per ton in
total). River transport tariffs lack transparency and should be simplified to
permit shippers to determine more clearly their relation to the cost of transport
(para. 3.04).



2.15      In addition to the tariff for river transport, a tax is levied to
recover the operating cost of SCEVN (Service Commun d'Entretien des Voies
Navigables), which is shared between CAR and Congo, and maintains the river route
over the Oubangui between Bangui and Brazzaville, especially by removing rocks
to facilitate passage.   This tax, which is in fact a user fee, varies from
CFAF 700/ton (promotional, tax for coffee, arabic gum) to CFAF 2,820 m8 for fuel.
2.16      The cost of air transport from Europe, mainly France, to CAR is
relatively high because fares include round trip cost due to lack of return
cargo and limited competition between airlines.
2.17      Transport Obstacles. With SPPF financing, a study is being undertaken
to establish a program for customs and tariff harmonization and improvement of
international transport movements in the UDEAC countries (Union Douanibre et
Economique de l'Afrique Centrale; member countries: Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon). The study is being carried
out with financing from the European Communities, and in consultation with the
UDEAC Secretariat residing in Bangui. On the basis of existing studies, the
present situation and future evolution of these countries' transport sectors and
related constraints have been analyzed. In a subsequent phase, measures will
be prepared to resolve the constraints identified, especially with regard to
regulations, simplification of customs procedures, cost recovery and tariff
setting, and least cost operational and infrastructure improvements. Results
of the first phase have been completed and indicate the need for further work
to prepare concrete proposals for improved custom procedures, transit regulations
and vehicle regulations. During donor coordination on CAR's transport sector
development, much support was expressed for improving customs procedures and
transport regulations on CAR's main international transport routes to Douala and
Pointe Noire as parallel actions to the implementation of the TSP, which has a
more national focus.
2.18      Investment Planning.   Transport sector investment planning is the
responsibility of an Interministerial Planning Cell for Transport and Public
Works (IPCTP), established at MTAC in October 1988 under the shared respon-
sibility of MTAC and MTPAT. This Cell operates in close collaboration with the
Secretariat of Planning, which has the prime responsibility for planning and
formulating the national investment budget.   A beginning with systematic
investment planning in CAR has only been launched since 1987, with the
formulation of a five-year investment plan prepared with assistance of the UNDP,
an effort which was expanded under the structural adjustment program. Subse-
quently, transport sector investment planning was launched in preparation of the
TSP, in order to arrive at an appropriate ranking of sector investments in
accordance with economic justification, priorities, and estimates of recurrent
cost requirements. Although a beginning has been made, national and sectoral
investment planning are still in an early stage and will require sustained
technical assistance for some time before becoming reliable tools of economic
management. IPCTP will also be strengthened to analyze statistical data prepared
by services of MTAC.
B. The Road Sub-sector
2.19      Road Network and Traffic Density.  The CAR road network consists of
about 23,700 km, of which 9,300 (or about 45Z) are classified national and
regional roads and the remaining 14,400 km are rural roads and tracks.  About



440 km of the main national roads (including about 20 km of national roads
passing through Bangui) are paved. Since 1982, after severe deterioration, the
Government has substantially improved about 3,700 km of the classified road
network, of which 1,300 km were rehabilitated under the Fourth Highway Project
(US$18.0 H Credit of 1982, paras. 2.40-2.42).
2.20      The national and regional road network carries 80X of total traffic,
502 of which is concentrated on the paved roads. Traffic density is highest near
Bangui and weakens rapidly beyond 100 km from the city. While on paved roads
daily traffic ranges between about 120 to 500 vpd (vehicles per day), and in
Bangui reache3 some 3,400 vpd on the main urban roads, average daily traffic on
national roads ir. the interior is lower at about 20 to 60 vpd, except near some
larger provincial towns, where it is estimated at between 50-100 vpd. Traffic
on regional roads varies between 15 and 50 vpd, and is much lower in more remote
areas. Some rural roads carry about 20 vpd and many less than 10 vpd. Due to
CAR's sluggish economy of the last five years, traffic has generally stagnated
or declined, and is projected to increase only slightly with the forecasted slow
improvement in economic activity resulting from the adjustment program (para.
1.05). Although statistics are incomplete, the number of vehicles is estimated
about 11,600, which has been relatively constant during the period 1985-89. Of
this number, about 802 are light vehicles (of which 402 are pick-up trucks), and
the remainder are larger trucks and tractor-trailers. An overview of the road
network and traffic density is given in Annex 2-2.
2.21      Rural Roads.   About 602 of the 14,400 km rural road network is
generally in a poor state of repair. Some 9,000 km of rural roads are under the
responsibility of agricultural agencies such as SOCADA, responsible for cotton
production; ADECAF, responsible for coffee production; ANDE, which implements
a livestock project (PNDE) financed by IDA and the European Communities; SCAT,
responsible for tobacco production; and a few others, including forestry
companies.  However, limited budget funds prevent most of the agencies from
adhering to a regular maintenance program.   About 3,500 km were under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), but since its
maintenance brigades did not receive budget funds, these roads have not been
maintained for many years and have since become generally impracticable. Conse-
quently, provision of inputs, collection, and marketing of cash crops and food
crops, even in regions where some road maintenance takes place, has become dif-
ficult and costly due to the high vehicle operating cost.
2.22      Rural road rehabilitation and maintenance is an important priority for
CAR's agricultural sector, which contributes close to half of GDP. Hence, both
special agricultural agencies and rural maintenance brigades require substantial
material, technical and institutional strengthening in support of CAR's
agricultural development objectives. In an effort to increase efficiency, the
Government has launched programs to restructure agricultural institutions
including a reorganization of MDR, whose task of maintaining the rural roads
under its responsibility have been transferred to MTPAT.   However, MTPAT's
experience with rural road rehabilitation and maintenance is limited, making it
necessary to achieve sustained improvements in this area through combined efforts
of MDR, the specialized agricultural development agencies (which, in accordance
with recent plans, would be reorganized into rural development zones), and MTPAT.
Since the residual group of rural roads previously under MDR has not been
adequately maintained. MTPAT would concentrate more specifically on maintaining
primary rural roads linked to the regional and national road networks, with
financing under the transport sector component of the investment plan, leaving



the responsibility for maintenance of secondary and tertiary rural roads to the
agricultural development agencies, with financing under the agricultural
development component of the plan.
2.23      Urban Roads.  Urban roads in CAR are generally classified in primary
roads, which are extensions of the national road network, secondary roads, which
link up to the main roads, and a tertiary network serving the interior of the
towns. Bangui has an urban road system of about 70 km, with little over 50 km
paved, of which some 20 km is in the secondary category; Bambari's urban roads
extend over 20 km, Bouar's network is about 22,5 km, both with about half
consisting of national roads, followed by Berberati with 15,6 km, mostly national
roads. None of these larger three secondary towns have paved roads. National
roads in these towns are generally used by heavy through traffic, which creates
substantial discomfort during the dry season because of dust, causes damage to
the road surface during the wet season and also constitutes a major safety
hazard. Lacking the necessary funds and equipment, the municipalities require
assistance in maintaining their city roads in a satisfactory, passable state.
2.24      Road Maintenance.  Despite efforts under previous highway projects
financed with IDA assistance, MTPAT has not been able to develop an appropriate
maintenance strategy. This deficiency is mainly due to long time lags between
donor-financed highway projects, interruptions in technical assistance and
training programs, and frequent turnover of local staff. Of the 9,300 km of
classified roads,  kbout 5,400 km (close to 60Z) have thus far been programmed
to be maintained annually, about 4,600 km with mechanical means and 1,000 km
manually. Of the mechanical road maintenance program (resurfacing of paved roads
and regraveling of earth roads), MTPAT's share is about 3,200 km per year or
about 34Z of the total road network. The remaining 1,400 km, which is about 152
of the total network and 302 of the mechanical maintenance program, is maintained
by brigades operated by French and German technical assistance (see map: IBRD
No. 21981).
2.25      As a result of its inadequate maintenance  strategy,  MTPAT has
maintained generally much less than the annual maintenance program agreed between
its Department of Public Works and the Road Fund (discussed in para. 2.29).
Consequently, following the substantial investments made during the rehabilit-
ation program of 1982-1986, the road network has begun to deteriorate again.
In addition, since part of the road network is not being maintained at all,
especially in sparser populated areas, these roads are gradually being lost to
the country posing problems of continued geographical access. At present, MTPAT
operates four mechanized maintenance brigades, of which one is applied solely
to the paved roads; the remaining three are carrying out resurfacing of gravel
roads. In addition, MTPAT operates smaller brigades for patching work and bridge
repair.   Their composition is determined each year in light of the road
maintenance work programmed by MTPAT. Manual maintenance is carried out by
MTPAT's 16 subdivisions and 11 small local contractors, who were trained under
a pilot operation financed by the Fourth Highway Project. To succeed in its
maintenance program, MTPAT will have to diminish its responsibilities for force
account methods in favor of the private sector, among others by a broader use
of small contractors, which would be an essential element of its new road main-
tenance strategy (para. 3.08).
2.26      Grouped  in OPPER  (Operation Promotion  des  Petits Entrepreneurs
Routiers), and managed by foreign technical assistance, the small local
contractors carried out manual maintenance on close to 1,000 km in 1988,



- 10 -
generally at lesser expense and more efficiently than MTPAT's maintenance crews.
Having progressively grown more into an association of private entrepreneurs.
the contractors have organized themselves into a private cooperative with statut-
es independent from MTPAT. OPPER will continue to carry out manual maintenance
for MTPAT, and seels to gradually enter into mechanical maintenance as well,
using equipment that would be made avaAable by MTPAT through a pooling arrange-
ment. In addition, to keep their businesses from failing due to a possible lack
of work, the small contractors are also branching out into other public works,
such as building and drainage works in urban areas.
2.27      Equipment.   MTPAT holds a considerable amount of equipment (about
300 units with a replacement value of US$28 M at 1989 prices), that has mostly
been provided on a grant basis by Japan. However, due to lack of technical
ability and inadequate handling, only about one third of this equipment is
operative. The usable equipment has a remaining economic life of at most three
more years, which, if MTPAT continued to carry out road maintenance by force
account, would dictate equipment renewal in two stages (1991 and 1994) to meet
maintenance targets, requiring substantial financial commitments. The principal
reasons underlying the weak performance of MTPAT's equipment department are
(a) insufficiently qualified mechanical engineers and technicians; (b) inadequate
spare parts and funding, which are provided through the Road Fund, causing
equipment to be idle unnecessarily for sustained periods; and (c) inappropriate
programming of equipment use. Part of the deficiencies are due to the fact that
MTPAT uses spare part funds for light vehicles not associated with road
maintenance, thus reducing Road Fund resources for maintenance equipment. Light
vehicle repair and spare parts for other than maintenance purposes should
normally be financed by the ministerial budget, and not the Road Fund. Given
MTPAT's weak performance in maintenance and equipment operation, commitments for
the purchase of new equipment would be difficult to justify. To avoid future
capital losses, MTPAT will establish commercial management of equipment
maintenance as part of its new maintenance strategy.
2.28      MTPAT also operates 62 ferries, of which 22 are motorized.   All
motorized ferries have recently been repaired with German financing and are in
a satisfactory state of repair. About 27 of the non-motorized ferries will be
renovated with additional financing provided by the Federal Republic of Germany.
2.29      Road Maintenance Financing.  Road maintenance is financed by a Road
Fund, established in 1981 as a legally and financially autonomous body. The Road
Fund's staff is small with about 30 employees, of which 12 higher level staff,
headed by an expatriate administra.or. The Road Fund is overseen by a Management
Committee chaired by the Minister of Public Works and members from other
Government departments, including the Ministry of Finance, and the local chamber
of commerce.   Total 1988 and 1989 revenues of the Road Fund amounted to
CFAF 1.7/1.8 billion (about US$5.3/5.5 M). These revenues are derived from a
CFAF 50/1 user fee built in the fuel tax (Annex 2-3) which is directly trans-
ferred by PETROCA, the national petroleum agency, into the Road Fund account es-
tablished at a commercial bank. A more detailed description of the Road Fund
is provided in Chapter VI.
2.30      Although the Road Fund user fee has been gradually increased by the
Government, resources have not kept pace with rising maintenance requirements,
thereby adding to the insufficient maintenance capacity of MTPAT. Future Road
Fund requirements to support the routine maintenance program proposed under the
project have been estimated at about CFAF 2.7 billion per annum (US$8.4 M,



- 11 -
depreciation of equipment and installations not included), which exceeds present
revenues by 25Z. Moreover, while the Road Fund has been adequately managed with
technical assistance, funds were used for non-maintenance related expenditure
due to shortages in the Ministerial budget. As a result, the Road Fund was called
on to finance part of expenditures for fuel, salaries and other items that should
normally have been charged to MTPAT'e or the national budget. Thus, funds for
maintenance work were reduced and overall output was adversely affected. An in-
depth audit of the 1988 Road Fund accounts has been carried out with terms of
reference approved by IDA to determine the application of funds and to provide
recommendations  for  improvements  to  be  implemented  during  the  project
(paras. 6.04-6.05).
2.31      Other deficiencies of Road Fund financing stem from delays in PETROCA
transfers (about three to four months), lack of coordination between the R'ad
Fund and the maintenance department on the actual implementation of tne
maintenance program, and administrative weaknesses in keeping track of actual
expenditure. In addition, equipment supplies and maintenance operations financed
by bilateral donors are not within the purview of the Road Fund, making control
over the use of these resources and overall planning for future expenditure more
difficult.
2.32      The main weakness of the Road Fund has, therefore, not been the
mobilization of revenues from road user charges, but inappropriate use of these
revenues. In order to cope more efficiently with future maintenance requirements
and to safeguard past investment, Road Fund management requires strengthening;
budgeting, funding, and maintenance planning and implementation need to be better
integrated, and additional resources ought to be mobilized as maintenance
requirements increase. However, continued external financing of road maintenance
will remain required as long as national resources are constrained, and only as
a matter of last resort should incremental contributions be sought from the
nation-l budget.
2.33      The Public Works and Buildings Laboratory  (LBTP).   LBTP  is an
autonomous directorate of MTPAT responsible for geotechnical studies and
engineering, research on local construction materials and soil studies, and tests
on existing structures. It has a staff of about 30 people, of which 13 are
professionals, and is managed under contract by the French Public Works and
Building Research Center (CEBTP), which is at the origin of many public works
laboratories in former French Africa. Activities of LBTP are naturally influenced
by the volume of construction activity in CAR, and were highest during the Fourth
Highway Project (1984-1987). Since then, its volume of work has declined, and
LBTP's resulting operational deficit is covered by its reserve funds. The
Laboratory provides good potential for strengthening local capacity and expertise
to intervene in foreign financed construction projects, and this potential should
be utilized to the fullest extent during future investment projects. The TSP
will provide assistance for this purpose.
2.34      Cost Recovery of Road Traffic.  In addition to the Road Fund user fee,
several other taxes, sales taxes on spare parts, which are relatively high (tires
in CAR are 301 more expensive than in neighboring Cameroon), and import duties
constitute the framework for cost recovery of road rehabilitation and main-
tenance.   Fuel prices (CFAF 350 for gasoline and CFAF 280 for diesel) are
considerably higher than in neighboring countries (CFAF 280 and 180, respective-
ly, in Cameroon; CFAF 295 and 195, respectively, in Congo; CFAF 290 and 270
equivalent, respectively, in Chad), leading to substantial contraband traffic



- 12 -
on CAR's western border. Domestic road transport, which generally carries lower
value commodities, is charged with a 16.5Z tax over the value of the transport
contract -- with the exception for cotton and coffee, which carry a reduced rate
of 2.42 -- while international road transport, which carries generally higher
value commodities, is taxed at the rate of 5Z.
2.35      There is no special road user fee applied to heavy vehicles.  This
benefits especially foreign transport vehicles, which escape paying the Road Fund
user fee because they often carry large quantities of lower priced fuel in
auxiliary tanks from neighboring countries. Measures have recently been taken,
that at the border Customs charges payment of duties, or confiscates any amount
of fuel in excess of what is needed to reach Bangui.   Confiscated fuel is
transferred to PETROCA. However, the actual success rate of these measures is
difficult to assess.   Introduction of tolling charges on the international
transport road from Bangui to the Cameroon border may not be practicable under
the present efforts to harmonize transport policy among the UDEAC countries.
Axle load in CAR is controlled at the sole weighing station near Bangui. Payment
of fines has not been enforced for some time, which has encouraged heavy
overloading causing substantial damage to the road network. MTAC is responsible
for applying axle load control, and has hesitated to fine foreign truckers for
fear of counter measures in neighboring countries. MTAC has advised neighboring
countries that as of January 1990 overloading is again penalized. Concomitantly,
taxing of heavy trucks should be enforced to recover the cost of road repair and
to supplement Road Fund revenues. Possibilities for the establishment of such
a tax system is being reviewed by the study on transport obstacles in UDEAC
countries. which is to make recommendations for harmonizing axle load require-
ments and for instituting appropriate recovery mechanisms of road maintenance
expenditure.
2.36      Road Safety.  CAR experiences a high accident level due to lack of
enforcement of traffic rules, under equipped and insufficiently trained police,
absence of road signs and inoperative traffic lights in urban areas. MTAC, which
is  responsible  for  traffic  regulation,  is  faced  with  azi  increasing
accident-related cost to the economy, which has been estimated at least
CFAP 1 billion per year in terms of insurance damages. As a result of the poor
statistical base, it is d4fiicult to estimate the additional production losses,
and hospitalization ewpenses, but comparing data with other African countries,
the cost is likely to be much higher. Consequently, MTAC has taken steps to
prepare a road safety program (para. 4.26), that would be carried out under the
project.
2.37      Procurement. Responsibilities for procurement are vested in a national
procurement committee, established at the Presidency, which reviews the
evaluation and recommendations made by the technical committees at ministerial
level, and decides on contract awards. Although the objective was to streamline
procurement procedures under a centralized organization in order to achieve
uniformity and objectivity, the new procedures have led to long processing delays
that prove costly to the economy. In October 1989, an IDA mission carried out
an assessment of CAR's procurement system. The main conclusions were that ICB
and LCB procedures are slow and inefficient, that the enabling legislation
requires updating and rationalization, and that measures are to be taken to
accelerate control procedures which require excessive processing time.   The
Government is aware of these weaknesses and is in the process of redrafting
regulations.    However,  assistance  is necessary to help  improve  existing
arrangements, in particular with respect to policy making, institutional



- 13 -
capability and rules and procedures. This would include drafting of codes as
well as model documents.   Provision has been made under TSP to provide such
assistance.
2.38      Environmental Aspects.  The Government has constructed, with external
financing, part of an international road from Yamando through Bambio to Boda
through the CAR portion of the regional equatorial rain forest (see Map
IBRD 21981). On completion, this road would shorten the distance between Bangui
and Douala by about 140 km, and reduce travel time by half between Bangui and
southwestern CAR  (Berberati), which is an important regional center.   In
addition, it would reduce the transport cost to Douala port for wood products,
which is one of CAR's major export items.  The Government has completed an
Environmental Impact Study to obtain recommendations for necessary actions to
limit potential damage to the forest resulting from the road construction.
2.39      The Study's recommendations focus in particular on (a) erosion prevent-
ion, and the need for maintenance and drainage; (b) protection of the forest from
man-made fires to establish plots for cultivation; (c) containment of hunting
of protected wild life; (d) creation of a greater participation between the State
and private forestry companies in order to protect the forest and to develop in-
tegrated projects including the forestry population; (e) study of the ecological
aspects and required protective measures regarding possible continuation of the
road from Bambio to Boda, including the crossing of the 3 km-long Mbaere River
swamp which regulates much of CAR's river basin; and (f) realignment of the
proposed trace of the Bambio-Boda road along existing villages to prevent
migration away from the village to the new road, and to avoid portions of primary
forest. Part of these measures will be implemented under the proposed Natural
Resources Management Project which was appraised in August 1989. In the interim,
the Government has taken measures to prevent village farming and cultivation
along the portion of the road that has already been constv zcted.  The Study
recommends that CAR huild on these ongoing efforts to protect the forest.
C. Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.40      Since 1969, the Bank Group has mainly been involved in assisting
development of the highway sector, with four IDA Credits (Credits 146-CA of 1969,
199-CA of 1970, 847-CA of 1978, and 1258-CA of 1982 for the Fourth Highway
Project, which was the last IDA-financed operation in the transport sector)
totaling US$46.5 M (including US$4.5 M for a supplemental Credit for High-
ways III, in 1980). These credits focussed on road reconstruction, rehabilita-
tion and maintenance, and technical assistance and training to the then Ministry
of Public Works (MPW).
2.41      The success ratings of these projects were mixed.  During the period
of the Bokassa regime (1976-1980), the road network deteriorated cc.nsiderably,
and had to be substantially rehabilitated during the Fourth Highwey Project.
Much of the previously trained staff had left, leaving a serious gap in
implementation capacity. While the physical part of the Fourth Highway Project
was relatively well executed, transfer of technical knowledge remained
insufficient because of a poorly motivated civil service and insufficient
training ability of expatriate assistants. Continued weaknesses have been MPW's
limited capacity to implement these projects and to establish an adequately
funded reliable maintenance organization, lack of qualified staff, and slow
results in institution building despite a substantial amount of technical
assistance.



- 14 -
2.42      Lessons  learned include  that given CAR's  limited  implementation
capacity and the long span it would take to educate and train a public works
force capable of maintaining the country,'s sizable road network, road maintenance
in CAR should increasingly be carried out by contract; and in selecting technical
assistance, greater weight should be given to the training ability of expatriate
consultants. These lessons have been taken into account in the preparation of
the Transport Sector Project.
2.43      The above four operations have been critically reviewed in a Project
Performance Audit Report which will be issued shortly and which points especially
to the weaknesses mentioned above. The PPAR confirms the analysis made on the
road sector in the CAR Transport Sector Strategy Note (December 27, 1989,
available in the Project File), which served as the basis for the formulation
of the TSP and was discussed with the Government during appraisal in the fall
of 1989. The issues raised in the Strategy Note and the PPAR with respect to
CAR's road rehabilitation and maintenance capacity are proposed to be resolved
by (a) improving donor coordination to finance high priority projects based on
continued economic and physical planning in order to achieve a sustainable road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, including rural roads and other transport
sector investments, over a ten-year period (para. 4.01); (b) shifting the focus
on improving road maintenance by force account to carrying out these works by
private enterprise, including promotion of a national construction industry, and
by limiting MPW's involvement to programming, control and supervision
(paras. 4.0914.10); (c) strengthening Government staff in these managerial tasks
rather than in carrying out works themselves (para. 4.23); (d) establishing an
appropriate personnel management system to improve staff morale and to encourage
junior staff (para. 4.23); (e) training local staff in project preparation,
application of appropriate technologies, investment planning and supervision in
order to gradually lessen CAR's dependence on expatriate technical assistance
(paras. 4.16/17, 4.19, 4.23124, 4.31, 4.33); (f) maintaining a computerized
system of actual costs of project implementation to ensure up-to-date cost data
by project implementation (para. 4.39); and (g) improving management and
utilization of road maintenance funding (paras. 6.05-6.07).
2.44      Rationale for Continued Bank Group Involvement.  Experience with past
projects and, in particular, the structural adjustment program that was put in
place in 1986, revealed that a broader approach of transport sector development
was needed to tackle the sector's institutional aspects, its development strategy
and planning, and donor coordination in order to focus on priority investments.
The Government and the Bank concurred on the need to prepare a transport sector
project that would encompass these objectives. Other donors, also active in the
sector, joined in developing a coherent sector strategy which was agreed during
a donor consultation meeting in March 1990 and will be the cornerstone of
transport sector development throughout the nineties.  The Bank Group's role
will be to continue to help promote and maintain this strategy during this period
and to ensure that it remains consistent with the overall structural adjustment
and expenditure policies set for the CAR economy.
III.  TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY MEASURES
3.01      In order to address the issues described in Chapter II, in partrculart
to rationalize transport sector performance and to reduce the cost of transport
to the economy, the Government has adopted a coherent set of transport sector
policy measures. These measures, which have been laid down in a declaration of



- 15 -
sector policy (Annex 3-4) endorsed by the President of the Central African
Republic, constitute an integrated package of the TSP and are related to
transport liberalization; adjustment of transport sector instit-itions and
specialized agencies; adherence to careful sector investment planning;
establishment of an adequate road maintenance strategy, including a transfer from
current force account methods to using private enterprise and a stronger
management of the Road Fund; a greater transparency of the river transport tariff
qystem; implementation of a road safety program, and more efficient procurement
procedures. A timetable for the implementation of these measures is contained
in Annex 3-5.
3.02      Liberalization of the Transport Industry.   As a first measure to
liberalize the transport industry, the role of BARC (para. 2.10) will be
substantially revised. This revision is based on the recommendations of a Task
Force on Road Transport, established by MTAC ad part of the Government's
commitments under SAL II. The agreed recommendations are fully consistent with
the measures agreed under SAL II and include among others (a) abolishment of
BARC's monopoly by having it compete for supplying transport services together
with other transporters and forwarding agencies and by abolishing the 102 penalty
commission; (b) representation of the interests of CAR transporters in Douala
and surveyance of the adequate application of the bilateral agreement between
CAR and Cameroon regarding the sharing of transport between CAR and Cameroonian
truckers (para. 2.04); and (c) continuation of the collection of taxes
(TCA -- para. 2.34) on behalf of the Treasury and statistics of transport data
for MTAC policy making. The measures agreed to under SAL II (removal of BARC's
monopoly and the 102 penalty commission) have been completed as part of the
conditionality for negotiations of the IDA credit for the TSP. After two years
of operations under its revised statutes, the merits of BARC continuing as a
separate organization will be reviewed.
3.03      In iddition, the Government will implement the agreed recommendations
of its Task Force which has reviewed the role of the Central African Maritime
Shipping Council (CCAC) (para. 2.12). These recommendations include, that CCAC
will reduce its operational costs; abolish all directives and decrees providing
CCAC with the sole allocation of shipping rights; and abolish the sale of
transport rights of CAR merchandise to a sole forwarding agent against commis-
sion. Instead CCAC, with a reduced staff and budget, will solely operate as a
service organization to help shippers locate most favorable maritime transport.
To this end, CCAC will acquire the technical capability to enable it to carry
out its service function through an appropriate training program of its staff
with UNCTAD assistance. In addition, CCAC will be regularly audited. with the
first audit taking place before mid-1990. After two years, CCAC's performance
in its revised capacity will be reviewed in order to make further corrections
if necessary, including a decision on the merits of CCAC continuing as a separate
agency.
3.04      Transport Controls and Tariffs.  Road and river transport in CAR are
subject to many controls which hamper traffic and unnecessarily increase
transport costs. Ad hoc commissions in 1988 and 1989 examined the problems of
transport controls and made recommendations for their removal. The Government
has issued decrees to implement these recommendations. Transparency of the river
transport tariffs is complex, and consists of many different elements making it
difficult to determine their relation to the actual cost of transport. During
the TSP, a study will be made with a view to establishing a simplified and



- 16 -
systematic tariff system, so as to ensure clarity to shippers and rational
pricing.
3.05      Institutional  Reforms.   MTPAT  and MTAC will  be  reorganized in
accordance with new organization charts to be agreed during negotiations and
which should reflect the staff reduction agreed under the Structural Adjustment
Program ("Plan dteffectifs"). With regard to MTPAT, its reorganization concerns
especially the Department of Public Works (DPW) to achieve improved efficiency
of the road maintenance  task.   The equipment workshop  of the Equipment
Directorate will be turned into a self-sustained commercial operation.
Additional reforms will be the creation of a new Department of Human Resources
responsible for personnel management and training (including MTPAT's Training
Center). Similarly, MTAC will create a Division of Human Resources to improve
efficiency of personnel management and training, and regroup several departments
to permit a more efficient preparation of transport sector policy making,
supervision of specialized agencies, and control of traffic and transport
regulations.
3.06      ASECNA.  In consultation with ASECNA, which has its headquarters in
Dakar, the Government will carry out a study of the optimal local staffing
requirements of ASECNA's services in CAR with the objective of reducing its
current payroll. In addition, an audit of its accounts will be carried out to
verify, in particular, the use of funds, the status and recovery potential of
receivables, and, generally, to improie ways to economize on expenditures.
Also, a market study will be carried out to explore the potential for additional
revenues that could be generated from its meteorological services in CAR. These
studies would be completed for review before mid-1991.
3.07      Investment Planning.  Sector planning will be further strengthened by
assisting the Interministerial Planning Cell for Transport and Public Works
(IPCTP) in the preparation of the annual investment budget.   Selection of
projects will be based on the highest economic return (in any event not less than
lO0), and affordability to CAR in terms of recurrent cost expenditure. Donor
transport sector project proposals will as a rule be reviewed as to whether they
fit within the agreed parameters of the investment plan, and meet the above
economic and affordability criteria. The proposed transport sector investment
budget will be reviewed annually with the Planning Secretariat and IDA and with
donors in local coordination meetings, in light of the economic parameters agreed
under the structural adjustment program and the availability of foreign and local
resources.
3.08      Road Maintenance Strategy.  The new maintenance strategy to be adopted
by the Government will comprise adherence to an annual maintenance program of
an agreed priority network of about 4,000 km of national and regional roads
(Annex 3-6). Moreover, programming and decision making will be strengthened by
integrating the Road Fund, Road Maintenance and Equipment Directorates, and the
MTPAT subdivisions in the preparation and implementation of the annual road
maintenance program. Road maintenance and equipment repair will be privatized
using foreign and local contractors, including the Cooperative OPPER, with the
objective that MTPAT will operate only two maintenance brigades for emergency
operations and elimination of critical points. The equipment workshop will be
organizationally separated from MTPAT and placed under commercial management.



- 17 -
3.09      Road Maintenance Resource Mobilization and Management.   Road Fund
management will be strengthened to ensure that Road Fund expenditure will be
applied to road maintenance only and in accordance with the implementation
schedule of the agreed maintenance program.   Financing of fuel consumption,
salaries, maintenance and repair of vehicles and other expenditures not
associated with road maintenance will be gradually transferred to the national
(ministerial) budget during the period 1990-93.  Road Fund resources will be
increased to CFAF 2.7 billion per year by 1993 in constant terms starting
January 19F0 to finance the agreed road maintenance program in its entirety.
The 1988 Road Fund Audit recommendations (paras. 6.04-6.05) will be fully imple-
mented during the TSP, including integration into the Road Fund accounts of all
maintenance programs and equipment supplies funded by donors and heretofore not
monitored by the Road Fund, in order to permit permanent overall expenditure and
performance review. The Road Fund Statutes will be amended to reflect the above
modifications.
3.10      Social Costs of the Transport Sector.  Several actions will be taken
to address social costs associated with transport sector development in CAR, such
as implementation of a Road Safety Program to curb the increasing accident rate
in CAR, including provision of appropriate controls, signalization, traffic
education, and medical services and support. Moreover, the Government will imple-
ment the agreed recommendations of the Environmental Impact Study to mitigate
the ecological consequences of the road construction through CAR's tropical rain
forest.
3.11      Procurement.  Following the assessment of the Government's procurement
system in October 1989, the Government will carry out the resulting recommenda-
tions for reorganizing its procurement procedures, including a training program
for procurement staff, in order to accelerate procedures for contract awards.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. TransRort Sector Program and Objectives
4.01      The  project,  which  was  prepared  and  appraised  during  Novem-
ber 1988-November 1989 with financing from PPF 453 and the French Trust Fund,
is designed to finance the transport sector component comprising the road, river
and civil aviation subsectors of the Government's rolling Public Investment Plan
for the period 1991-93.   In addition,  following consultations between the
Government and donors in March 1990 in the context of the UNDP-sponsored round
table conferences and sectoral consultation meetings, a mechanism has been put
in place to prepare and to help finance through the TSP, successive future
transport sector investment programs over a period of ten years placed in a
framework of appropriate sector policy measures, and based on (a) sector
priorities; (b) the macro-economic parameters of sector investment agreed under
the structural adjustment program; and (c) the Government's capacity to finance
the resulting recurrent costs.   This mechanism will permit multilateral and
bilateral donors, through improved and systematic annual donor coordination, to
participate in the investment plan financing in accordance with their own lending
procedures and programming. This would enable the Government to ensure sustained
financing of a coherent and economically justified sector investment program.
Such a mechanism would avoid the interruption of necessary investments that
occurred during 1985-89 following completion of the Fourth Highway Project.



- 18 -
4.02      The proposed TSP, which would be implemented over a period of five
years, equals the size of the 1991-93 transport sector component of the Public
Investment Plan (PIP), agreed within the structural adjustment program, which
amounts to about CFAF 40 billion (US$132.0 M), or about 30? of the annual
investment budget.  This sectoral proportion was agreed under the structural
adjustment program.   The proposed additional investment of about US$6.5 M
equivalent concerns reconstruction work on the Bangui-Bossembele road (RN1) which
is necessitated by the creation of a hydro-electric dam lake near this road
under the Energy Project (para. 4.05).   Consequently, no major additional
investments are envisaged beyond the TSP in order to (a) remain within the
sector's investment limits; (b) contain resulting recurrent charges to be
financed by the national budget; and (c) encourage donors to help finance only
priority investments with the highest possible economic rate of return.  The
contents of the PIP for the transport sector have been agreed with the Government
and were confirmed with the donor community during the above-mentioned donor
consultation meeting.  Because the most urgent needs for the 1991-93 period
consist of rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority road network, about
three quarters of the investment program (see para. 4.36) is devoted to the road
subsector.   Future transport sector programs are likely to devote greater
attention to investments in improvement of the navigability of the Oubangui River
and replacement of SOCATRAF's fleet of barges anc tugs. The investment program
is accompanied by a coherent set of policy measures, described in Chapter III,
which have been adopted by the Government and fully endorsed by the donors as
an integrated part of the TSP.
B. Proiect Description
4.03      Specifically, the TSP has the following components:
Road Sector Component
(a) rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority national and regional
road network of about 4,000 km of which about 420 km are paved,
including portions of national roads passing through secondary cities;
rehabilitation or/and maintenance of 720 km of rural roads; and ferry
and bridge repair;
(b)  reconstruction  of  part  of  National  Road  NR3,   and  devia-
tion/reconstruction works on RN1 needed as a result of the M'Bali
hydro-electric dam construction (US$18.0 M IDA Credit 1978-CA for the
Energy Projec_);
(c) provision of equipment, vehicles and spare parts for routine road main-
tenance, and ferry services;
(d) rehabilitation of office facilities and improvement of the bus and
freight station in Bangui;
(e) development of the national construction industry to encourage private
sector participation in road maintenance, including technical assis-
tance to private contractors;
(f) strengthening of the National Public Works Laboratory; technical
assistance and logistical support to MTPAT in programming, supervision



- 19 -
and monitoring of road works; training of MTPAT staff, including
seminars and scholarships;
(8) detailed engineering and supervision of the rehabilitation and
regraveling works; detailed engineering of the Mbaere river and swamp
crossing at Bambio; and
(h) implementation of a road safety program.
River Transport Component
(a)  pre-feasibility and feasibility studies regarding the construction of
a river flow regulating dam on the Oubangui River; and
(b)  study to review SOCATRAF's river transport tariff.
Civil Aviation Component
(a) improvement of airport security; studies regarding the reorganization
of ASECNA's services in CAR and audit of ASECNA's accounts; and
(b) spot improvement of the runway at Berberati airport and feasibility
study to examine the possibility of adapting Berberati airport for
regional air traffic.
Technical Assistance, Training, and Special Studies
provision of projct implementation assistance and training of MTPAT,
MTAC, and Planning Cell staff, including seminars and scholarships,
to improve managerial and technical capability, and to prepare the next
phase of the transport sector investment program; strengthening of
MTPAT's supervision capacity, and assistance and training in
procurement;   carrying out of special  studies to improve CAR's
procurement system, to promote its local construction industry, and
to develop a master plan for rural roads rehabilitation and main-
tenance, and to establish a computerized program to monitor overall
project implementation and expenditure.
C. Road Sector Component
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program (Map IBRD No. 22298)
The rehabilitation and maintenance program of the national and regional
road network has been subdivided into separate lots, discussed bel-,w.
4.04      Reconstruction of Part of the National Road NR3 (RN3) -- Lot 1.  The
section of the RN3 between BossembdlM and Yaloke (about 70 km), which is part
of the main international link of CAR between Bangui and the port of Douala in
Cameroon, and is of crucial importance to CAR's economy, will be upgraded to
paved standards. This section is currently a modern gravel road with a traffic
of about 143 vpd, about 20Z of which are heavy trucks travelling to and from
Douala and to Chad.  Reconstruction to paved standards will include double-
surface treatment, while retaining the characteristics of the existing alignment.



- 20 -
4.05      Reconstruction of Part of the National Road NR1 (RN1) -- Lot 2.  As
a result of the Energy Project (US$18.0 M Credit of May 1989), which helps
finance the construction of a dam on the M'Bali River to increase CAR's
hydroelectric power supp'.y, the RN1 would on several locations be below the
highest water level of the dam lake.   To ensure continued passability,  a
deviation of about 7.5 km of the road will need to be constructed between Bangui
and Bossembele, while the portion of the existing alignment that passes through
four thalwegs of the future dam lake area needs to be elevated by about a meters
over a distance of 12 km. At these four locations, large metal culverts will
be installed with a surface of 30 e2 and 50 mi, respectively, to permit the
passage of water during the wet season.  Construction works are scheduled to
start in October 1990 in order to complete the main earthworks and installation
of culverts before the beginning of the next wet season in July 1991. After
settlement of the reconstructed sections, the laterite surface will be paved
during the 1991-92 dry season.   To allow international transport traffic to
continue during the works, a temporary deviation will be built along the road
sections under construction.
4.06      Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance of the Existing Paved Roads
-- Lot 3.  The paved roads to be rehabilitated under the project are part of
three main road axes, the remainder of which are built to modern gravel
standards:  (a) Bangui-Bossembele (148 km. 300 vehicles per day -- vpd) -- RN1;
(b) Bangui-Damara (63 km. 400 vpd); (c) Damara-Sibut (111 km, 140 vpd) -- RN2,
which is the main road to CAR's second largest town, Bambari; and
(d) Bangui-M'baiki (98 km, 130 vpd) -- RN6, an important center of forestry
development and wood processing. Shoulders will be cleared over a distance of
about 420 km, followed by patching of damaged road sections over about 25 km;
shoulder rehabilitation over 125 km; double surface treatment over 242 km; and
reconstruction of the first 35 km of the Bangui-Damara road, which are seriously
deteriorated, including installation of a large culvert to replace a broken
bridge. In addition, manual maintenance activities such as clearing ditches,
and repair of structures will be intensified over the entire paved network to
reduce future road deterioration.
4.07      Rehabilitation, Periodic and Routine Maintenance Strategy on the
Priority Gravel/Earth Road Network -- Lots 4-7. To rehabilitate and maintain
the existing priority gravel/earth road network of about 2,970 km (2,470 km of
national roads -- RN -- and 500 km of regional roads -- RR -- Annex 3-6), a new
strategy has been developed consisting of a set of coherent operations over time
based on a "Decision Table" (Annex 4-7). During the TSP, about 1,030 km will
be rehabilitated and graveled. This program will be repeated every six to ten
years during following planning periods in accordance with traffic levels, soil
and climatological conditions. After rehabilitation and regraveling, grading
accompanied by spot graveling will be carried out over about 850 km. Routine
mechanized maintenance will be carried out every six or twelve months.  The
timing and frequency of the above operations will be determined in accordance
with traffic volume and also climatological circumstances, since the northern
and southern part (roughly above and below the 6th parallel, see Map IBRD
No. 22298) of CAR have a different frequency of rainfall.  During the next plan
period, the road network (630 km) which is being completed in the Ouham-Pende
Regional Development Program (cotton producing area) will be added to this
program.
4.08      The above rehabilitation and maintenance program of the earth road
network has been subdivided into areas of approximately the same road volume



- 21 -
which can each be implemented and financed individually by separate donors. They
consist of:
(a)  the East Zone (761 km -- Lot 4).  This zone comprises the sections
Sibut-Grimari (RN2, 120 km, 80 vpd); Grimari-Bambari  (RN2, 78 km.
60 vpd); Bambari-Alindao (RN2, 118 km, 46 vpd); Bambari-Bria (RN5,
211 km,   21 vpd);   Alindao-Kembe   (RN2,   112 km,   31 vpd)   and
Kembe-Bangassou (RN2, 122 km, 21 vpd);
(b)  the Central Zone (558 km -- Lot 5).  This zone comprises the road
section- Sibut-Kagabandoro (RN8, 152 km, 89 vpd); Kagabandoro-Ouandogo
(RR10, 60 km, 55 vpd); Ouandogo-Batangafo (RR1C, 48 km, 25 vpd);
Kagabandoro-Mbres (RN8, 83 km, 35 vpd) and Damara-Bouca (RN4, 215 km,
30 vpd);
(c)  the North-West Zone (931 km -- Lot 6).  This zone comprises the road
sections Bossembele-Bossangoa (RN1, 148 km, 55 vpd); Bossangoa-Bedaoyo
(RN1, 195 km. 37 vpd); Bossembele-Bossemtele (RN3, 143 km, 143 vpd);
Bossemt6l-Bouar (RN3, 149 km, 79 vpd); Bouar-Garoua Boulai (RN3,
154 km, 63 vpd) and Bouar-Bocaranga (RR4, 142 km, 43 vpd);
(d)  the South-West Zone (722 km -- Lot 7).  This zone comprises the road
sections Baoro-Carnot (RN11, 95 km, 45 vpd); Carnot-Berberati (old RN6,
94 km. 99 vpd); Yamando-Bambio (RR26, 85 km, 20 vpd); Berberati-Nola
(RN10,   136 km,   64 vpd);   Nola-Salo   (RN10,   55 km,   35 vpd);
Berberati-Gamboula (RN6, 91 km, 70 vpd); M'baiki-Boda (new RN6, 85 km,
49 vpd) and M'baiki-Mogoumba (RR1, 81 km, 53 vpd);
(e)  bridges and culverts on the priority road network; and
(f)  Ouham-Pende (North-West cotton growing area) regional road network
(630 km) being rehabilitated and maintained under the Ouham-Pende
regional development program.
The rehabilitation and maintenance programs will be designed for implementation
over three-year periods to attract private contractors to participate, in
accordance with specifications based on the "Decision Table."
4.09      Privatization of the Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program.  While
road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance have thus far been carried out
through foreign contractors, permanent maintenance has been the task of MTPAT's
departmental forces. However, despite training and technical assistance during
implementation of the Fourth Highway Project, MTPAT has had difficulties in
maintaining its portion of the priority road network (about 2,000 km) with its
own brigades. Therefore, during the TSP, mechanized maintenance will essentially
be contracted out, while MTPAT will put more emphasis on strengthening its
ability to plan, program a-d manage, control and monitor implementation of
rehabilitation and maintenance works. Consequently, its four mechanized brigades
will be reduced to two which will be assigned to the repair of critical road
sections and emergency requirements that cannot be covered by contract. Ferry
operation and maintenance will also remain the responsibility of MTPAT operators.
The results of the privatization program will be reviewed with MTPAT and the
donors by the end of 1992 to review its performance, and to determine its
continuation and expansion during the next investment phase.



- 22 -
4.10      Development of a Domestic Construction Industry.  Manual maintenance
will be carried out by village Ocantonnage" and small contractors associated in
the OPPER cooperative (para. 2.26), which were trained under the Fourth Highway
Project and succeeding technical assistance programs, and have been operating
successfully since then. These tasks will principally consist of patching, brush
clearing, drainage repairs, and simple maintenance of structures.  A special
effort will be made to encourage medium-size domestic contractors currently
engaged in the building industry to expand their business into mechanized road
maintenance.  This would be achieved through (a) launching training works on
some sections of the road network (Sibut-Kagabandoro and M'baiki-Mongoumba);
(b) establishing an equipment renting unit (see para. 4.11 below) at the MTPAT
Equipment Workshop, which will manage the equipment that will become available
due to the reduction in force account. This equipment would be made available
to local contractors under hire/purchase agreements, whereby MTPAT would deduct
from the contractors, invoices the equipment amortization and interest charged;
(c) encouraging subcontracting to foreign contractors; and (d) providing techni-
cal assistance to assist private contractors in the management and operation of
their enterprises (preparation of cost estimates, bids, billing, accounting,
programming) and works on site. In addition, the contractors would be invited
to participate in training seminars at the Public Works Training Center. Some
five domestic contractors have been identified, who expressed keen interest in
branching out to mechanized maintenance works.   Before  implementing this
initiative, a study will be carried out with remaining PPF funds to define in
greater detail the modalities of developing a national construction industry.
This study would in particular determine the requirements for appropriate
financial and technical training, as well as the creation of the necessary
financial and legal environment to permit such an industry to flourish. These
requirements would be regularly reassessed as the program progresses to permit
adaptation where necessary.
4.11      Exploitation of the MTPAT Equipment Workshop.   With financial and
technical assistance from the Government of Japan, MTPAT has obtained a modern
equipment workshop completed in 1989 and valued at about US$12 M. The workshop
contains sophisticated machinery for the repair of equipment that has been
donated by the Government of Japan over the last decade to assist MTPAT in the
carrying out of maintenance works. With the new strategy for road maintenance
to be applied by CAR during the TSP, most of MTPAT's equipment, that will be
managed by the workshop's equipment unit, will be gradually sold to domestic
contractors, while a limited stock will be selected to constitute MTPAT's two
remaining brigades. The workshop would also be used for equipment repairs needed
by private contractors, forestry companies and the river transport company
SOCATRAF, as these are often forced to import expensive new parts or equipment
for lack of an adequate local repair facility.
4.12      Despite efforts to train national staff in the technical operation of
the workshop's machinery, competent staffing is likely to remain insufficient
to adequately utilize the workshop's potential. In addition, inefficient use
and operation of the machinery could lead to costly breakdowns and operational
losses, which would have to be financed from the recurrent budget, in particular
from the limited resources of the Road Fund. To ensure that the workshop will
be utilized efficiently, the Government has decided -- and the donating
Government of Japan agreed -- that it be commercially managed.
4.13      Initial surveys revealed substantial interest of private enterprises
operating in CAR and in neighboring countries in such an arrangement. A study



- 23 -
will be carried out to determine the appropriate financial, legal and technical
parameters for operating the workshop under commercial management which is
planned to be installed as of January 1991. In addition, as of January 1990,
three mechanical experts have been assigned to the workshop under the Interim
Transport Sector Technical Assistance ani Training Component of the Economic
Management Project (para. 2.08), to initiate operation of a limited number of
machines in order to gain the necessary operating experience needed to support
a decision on the appropriate formula of commercial management.
4.14      Rural Roads.  As a result of the feasibility studies regarding the
rural roads sub-component, about 1,700 km of rural roads were identified which
constitute essential links between the rural development zones and the national
and regional road network.   Because it would be difficult to implement the
rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads by contract, in view of the limited
size of works involved, these works would be carried out by existing specialized
agricultural agencies. During the TSP, a beginning will be made to carry out
such works through SOCADA, the cotton producing agency. The rural roads program
would especially benefit the cotton development effort of ongoing agricultural
programs. SOCADA's capacity was evaluated to permit a work program of about
240 km per year, that is 720 km during the plan period of 1991-93. Works would
include earthwork, clearing, upgrading and improvement of access ramps to
bridges; improvement of the wearing course; and construction or repair of small
structures and culverts. Payment will be based on work performed in accordance
with agreed performance criteria. In addition, village teams ("cantonnage") and
the OPPER cooperative will be integrated in the maintenance program. Generally,
existing equipment will be used, renovated, and repaired where necessary to
improve SOCADA's implementation capacity. Alternatively, available equipment
will be rented from the Equipment Workshop.
4.15      The  rural  roads  rehabilitation and maintenance program will be
determined in accordance with a master plan for rural roads ("Schema directeur")
to be established during the TSP on the basis of a rural roads feasibility study
carried out during project preparation. This program should permit investment
and maintenance expenditures to be carried out on the basis of economic and
engineering criteria and regional agricultural productivity. At the end of the
trial period during the 1991-93 plan, the performance of this initial rehabilita-
tion and maintenance program will be evaluated to determine the potential for
an enlarged rural road rehabilitation and maintenance program during the
following phase of the transport sector investment program (1994-96), using
brigades of other specialized agencies. Additionally, in close consultation with
MDR and the Specialized Agricultural Agencies, studies will be launched to
prepare a rural environment improvement program, which would also include further
improvement of rural infrastructure, for implementation during the following plan
period of 1994-96.
4.16      Pilot Actions.  During the TSP, a number of actions will be launched
to develop appropriate technologies for road infrastructure operations, and a
data bank will be created of feasibility and engineering studies and results of
how works are actually performed. The purpose of these actions (Annex 4-8) is
to establish a framework to permit national staff (of MTPAT, MDR, and local
technical institutions) to obtain and develop practical knowledge of how to
rehabilitate and maintain road infrastructure within the particular climatolo-
gical, geotechnical, and soil conditions of CAR. Thus far, little transfer of
such practical knowledge has been attempted nor have study results and learn
processes been properly recorded, stored and kept accessible to local staff.



- 24 -
As a result, knowledge and experience often retained by consulting firms and
passing technical assistance financed by donors have been lost to the country.
4.17      The pilot actions include (a) establishment of a national capability
in preparation, management and control of road infrastructure works; (b) develop-
ment of appropriate technologies in maintenance of paved and gravel/earth road
surfaces and shoulders; and (c) development of local materials (including locally
available wood for the construction and repair of small structures) and
techniques adapted to the local soil and climatic conditions to maintain the road
network better and at lessor cost. These pilot actions will be launched and
followed up through seminars (held at the MTPAT training center), during which
specific working groups will be established for different subjects (maintenance
of paved roads; improvement of the durability of roads; utilization of local
woods and materials; organization and active use of village workers -- canton-
nage -- in road maintenance). The groups will consist of responsible ministerial
staff, technical assistants, small and middle size local enterprises, the public
works laboratory, and consultants supervising works. Practical test results will
be presented by each group for discussion in follow up seminars and will be
recorded in technical papers, which will subsequently be used to draft critical
sections in specifications, bid and contract documents. This procedure will
permit the national services to retain lessons learned and to maintain its road
network with greater confidence and ability, and lesser dependence on expatriate
technical assistance.
4.18      Public Works Laboratory (LBTP). Continuing under the supervising role
of MTPAT, LBTP will assume a broader role in participating more actively in the
geo-technical aspects of studies, control of road works and maintenance,
construction of buildings, research, and geo-technical training at the Public
Works Training Center. LBTP's staff will be strengthened through assistance
provided by France. LBTP will charge for its services on a commercial basis.
It will be managed by a director, appointed by MTPAT.
4.19      Implementation Support of the New Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Strateay. Annual road rehabilitation and maintenance programming will be carried
out under the leadership of a Road Maintenance Management and Coordination Group
(RMMCG).  This group was formally established at MTPAT in February 1990 and
consists of the Director General of Public Works, Director of Road Maintenance,
Director of Equipment, and the Road Fund Administrator. RMMCG will meet at least
monthly to oversee progress and would be joined at the annual planning process
and intermittently (at least quarterly) by representatives from IPCTP, the
Secretariat of Planning, and the Ministry of Finance, to maintain a linkage with
the national investment and budget expenditure process.
4.20      Initial planning of the road works for each calendar year will be
executed in close coordination with the subdivisions. For force account work,
each of the two remaining mechanized maintenance brigades will be assigned an
annual program of elimination of critical interruptions of the road network or
bridge repair. Sub-divisions receiving private contractors and MTPAT brigades
will be responsible for supervision and will be provided with logistical support.
Clear reporting mechanisms will be established requiring subdivisions to state
the timing of the technical progress of work, number of km done, and bridges
repaired. The reporting mechanism will serve as a feedback on whether the road
rehabilitation and maintenance system functions adequately or needs adjustment.
These data will be established by the Monitoring Division of the Directorate of
Public Works with assistance from the Public Works Laboratory (LBTP).   The



- 25 -
Monitoring Division will also carry out regular traffic counts on the road
network under MTPAT's responsibility in accordance with appropriate technologies
to be established, perfected and supervised by the technical assistance team.
Results will be submitted to and continuously analyzed by RMMCG to enable it to
direct logistic supplies, and accelerate or adjust the work program as necessary.
RMKCG will prepare quarterly reports on the progress of work, which will be sent
for review to the donors associated with the program.
4.21      Before launching the rehabilitation and road maintenance planning for
the following year, generally during September-November, a detailed analysis will
be made of the road maintenance record of the ending year, to review performance
and adherence to the maintenance schedule, and to review the effectiveness of
channeling Road Fund revenues in support of the maintenance program. The lessons
drawn from this exercise will be at the basis for the planning of next year's
program. Before November 30 of each year, MTPAT will consult with IDA on the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program established for the following year in
accordance with progress achieved during the previous year, requirements for the
following season, contractor performance and equipment availability, and avail-
able Road Fund revenues.
4.22      To program, manage and coordinate the rural roads program, a rural
roads coordination cell will be attached to the office of the Director General
of Public Works. This Cell will consist of two rural road engineers, assisted
by an expatriate engineer/economist, to establish coherent standards for
rehabilitation and maintenance works, program these works and coordinate
implementation with MDR and SOCADA.  The annual maintenance program will be
determined at the end of each preceding year, based on performance and estimated
capacity and experience of SOCADA.
4.23      Institutional Strengthening of MTPAT.  A strong technical assistance
program will be put in place to help the Government implement the road component
of the TSP, in order to avoid the institutional weaknesses that adversely
affected the execution of previous highway projects (para. 2.41). A list of the
technical assistance positions  is provided in Annex 4-9.   At MTPAT,  the
Department of Public Works (DPW), and the Equipment Directorate will be
strengthened in managing, controlling and supervising work by contract, managing
equipment maintenance and utilization, and creating a limited, but more
efficient, departmental force for maintenance work.  In addition, the Ministry's
personnel management will be modernized to establish a more flexible and dynamic
personnel policy so as to encourage and retain younger engineers and economists
in career development. During the interim training project (para. 2.08), an
analysis is being made of the capacity of MTPAT personnel, including sub-
divisional staff, based on the work already carried out during the feasibility
studies.   Moreover,  the  interim project  is providing  assistance  in the
implementation of decisi,ns regarding reduction in staff and improving skill mix.
The agreed new organization chart of MTPAT (Annex 4-10), including a new Human
Resources Department, and the modified DPW, will be introduced before credit
effectiveness. The appointments of the Director of Road Maintenance and of the
Director of Human Resources, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA, will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.24      Specifically, four technical assistants at MTPAT will assist in each
of the following critical functions:  planning and programming, studies and
procurement, supervision of works, and monitoring of project implementation.
In addition, a chief training officer who would be a human resources expert,



- 26 -
will assist the Public Works training center in the preparation and organization
of training courses and seminars in planning, management, and supervision of
works, general subjects related to the transport sector, and the use of
appropriate technologies.  To prepare and deliver such courses and seminars,
short-term consultancies will be used, including expertise locally available.
The chief training officer will also help in completing the task of establishing
and maintaining an adequate personnel management policy, for which the Director
of Human Resources will be responsible. A chief mechanical engineer and two
mechanics will be provided to the Equipment Workshop, especially during the
initial years of the proposed commercial operation of the workshop, in order to
reduce the charges and risks likely to be incurred by an expatriate management
group. Scholarships will be provided on a selective basis to acquire capabil-
ities that can not be obtained through the MTPAT training center.
4.25      Supervision Capacity at MTPAT.  In addition to consultants' services
required for detailed engineering and control of road construction, rehab-
ilitation and periodic maintenance works, and the technical assistance at MTPAT,
the project provides for short-term missions to assist and train MTPAT staff in
overall project supervision. This assistance will be provided by a consultant
firm selected by the Government.  These actions should gradually help reduce
MTPAT's dependence on expatriate technical assistance for managing project
implementation.
4.26      Road Safety Program.  As an additional pilot action of a different
nature, CAR will implement a Road Safety program, prepared by MTAC, that
comprises a broad range of activities, including strengthening and training
police forces in controlling traffic rules; provision and installation of
equipment for traffic regulation, signalization and safety; application of
technical vehicle controls; provision of improved medical and ambulance support
services; establishment of appropriate statistics for accident recording and
analysis; creation of a traffic safety education program and testing; and a
drivers school.  The project would help finance the investments required for
signalization, the creation of rescue brigades, and traffic education and related
technical assistance.
D. River Transport Component
4.27      Improvement of the River Flow of the Oubangui.  As a follow-up to
ongoing pre-feasibility studies financed by the European Economic Communities
(EEC), the project provides funds for the preparation of a feasibility study for
the construction of a possible dam over the Oubangui, about 60 km above Bangui,
to regulate its flow in order to extend the river's navigability during the dry
season.   The Government will ensure that the aforementioned study will be
accompanied by an environmental assessment and will include in the terms of
reference of the study the examination of potential issues with ripariani states
(Congo, Zalre). Technical assistance to the river transport agency SOCATRAF,
financed by France, will be continued for equipment maintenance and river
transport and to the river maintenance brigade SCEVN, including replacement of
the equipment of one of its four rock removing brigades. The appropriateness
and adequacy of this technical assistance to SCEVN, which is also financed by
France, is being evaluated by the French Ministry of Cooperation with IDA
assistance in order*to better determine the scope and tasks of the assistance
proposed to be financed during the TSP.



- 27 -
E. Civil Aviation Component
4.28      Improvement of Airport Security and Facilities. The security of Bangui
airport has been affected several times in the recent past.  In addition to
several security measures having been taken recently, the airport's security
will be further improved during the TSP by constructing a protecting fence to
surround the immediate airport grounds. Moreover, small improvements will be
made in the airport's facilities for a smoother handling of passenger traffic.
Finally, spot improvements will be applied to the paved runway of Berberati
airport, which has deteriorated to a level that poses a hazard to the fairly
frequent local traffic of private commercial aircraft. These works will be
carried out by local contractors. In addition, a feasibility study will be
carried out with respect to the possible improvement of Berberati airport to
service regional air traffic.
4.29      Meteorological Services.  To improve meteorological services in CAR
in support of international and local private air transport, about 10 small
stations operating with solar energy will be inste'.led to provide meteorologi-
cal information. This information will also be channeled to agricultural in-
stitutions for dissemination to farmers by radio.
4.30      Institutional Strengthening of MTAC.  At MTAC, the establishment of
a Human Resources Division will be essential to develop a sound personnel
management system, and to strengthen MTAC staff in technical matters of surface,
air and river transport, and meteorology. The appointment of the Division Chief,
in charge of the Human Resources Division, will be a condition of effectiveness.
The agreed modifications in MTAC's organization chart (Annex 4-11) will be
implemented before credit effectiveness. Implementation of the organizational
changes in MTAC's subsidiary agencies (BARC, CACC, and ASECNA) will be completed
in accordance with the Action Plan provided in Annex 3-5.
F. Other Items
4.31      Planning Cell.  The technical assistance program to the Planning Cell,
which has been launched under the interim technical assistance and traininqg
program of the Economic Management Project (para. 2.08), will be continued during
the TSP. About 24 man-months will be provided for training in transport sector
planning and computer ability. In addition, in view of the coordinating role
of the Planning Cell with respect to implementation of transport sector
investments, 50 man-months of expatriate assistance will be provided to assist
and train government staff in the execution of the TSP.
4.32      Office Improvement. To improve the Road Fund's computerized accounting
facilities, the Road Fund will move into offices, to be rehabilitated under the
project, which will be partially vacated by the Equipment Directorate which in
turn will move into the newly build Equipment Work Shop financed by Japan. To
permit LBTP to carry out its functions more efficiently, the project provides
for the supply of additional research equipment and the rehabilitation and
extension of its offices, using in part adjacent offices to be vacated by the
Road Fund. Finally, the Road Freight Station ("gare routi&re") in Bangui, which
is managed by BARC, will be improved. This freight station is of importance in
facilitating international road traffic between the Central African Republic,
Chad, and Cameroon.



- 28 -
4.33      Evaluation of Technical Assistance.  Detailed terms of reference are
being prepared for each technical assistance position, with strong emphasis on
the capability of transferring knowledge to national staff. Both the technical
assistance and training programs financed under the project will be subject to
half-yearly critical analysis on the progress made. The consulting firms and
technical assistance specialists will be evaluated on increased efficiency of
nationals and larger volume of work performed.   Before continuing under the
project with the technical assistance started under the interim technical assis-
tance and training component of the EMP, the interim results will be evaluated
so that corrections or adjustments can be made. It is expected that, at the end
of the project period, clear improvement will be achieved in the Government's
supervision capacity, so as to reduce its dependence on long-term expatriate
assistance.
4.34      Studies.  The program of studies can be summarized as follows.  During
the project, detailed engineering will be carried out for rehabilitation of the
paved,  gravel and rural roads.   In addition,  studies will be carried out
regarding the crossing over the Mba6rd river and swamp area at Bambio taking into
account the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Study. Assistance will
be provided in strengthening procurement regulations and rules, and training
government staff in appropriate application. A study of SOCATRAF's transport
tariff will be carried out with a view to improve transparency and establish a
closer relation with actual transport costs. This study will liaise with similar
studies being carried out under the Congo Parastatal Enterprise Reform Project,
which includes a review of ATC (Agence Transcongolaise de Communication), the
Congolese transport company. Diagnostic studies will be carried out with respect
to the merits of BARC and CCAC continuing as separate agencies, and if so with
what personnel strength and objectives. Feasibility studies will be continued
with regard to the construction of a possible river flow regulating dam on the
Oubangui. With regard to civil aviation, an audit will be carried out of the
ASECNA-CAR accounts and proposals will be prepared with respect to the
rationalization of its internal organization. Moreover, the project provides
for studies to promote the national construction industry, to develop a master
plan for rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance, and a rural environment
improvement operation, and to prepare the implementation of the next phase of
the transport sector investment program.
G. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.35      Total cost of the project in January 1990 prices (including taxes and
duties, amounting to US$12.5 M), amounts to US$138.7 M, with a foreign exchange
component of US$91.0 M. Cost estimates are based on recent data for civil works
and detailed unit prices, and include lOX for physical contingencies.  These
contingencies are considered acceptable, given the type of civil works to be
performed. Reconstruction, periodic and routine road maintenance expenditures
are based on prices prevailing in neighboring countries and also in ongoing main-
tenance projects in CAR financed by the Road Fund and by bilateral donors.
4.36      The estimated costs per man-month of technical assistance, excluding
contingencies, allowances, foreign and local travel and local subsistence
allowance, is estimated at US$11,500 equivalent; including these allowances, the
cost per man-month is about US$16,000 equivalent. The estimate for one man-year
scholarship for training staff is about US$10,000 including travel.  The cost
of buildings is based on prevailing prices in CAR.



- 29 -
4.37      Price contingencies for the foreign exchange components have been
estimated at 4.9 per annum during 1990-96, and for local costs at 3.02 during
1990, 3.52 during 1991-92, and 4.02 during 1992-96. The cost of the project is
summarized in the table which follows (details are given in Annex 4-12):
Prolect Cost Estima+As
------ CFAF Millions --         US- UN Million -----  X Forolgn  Total X of
Category    Local   Foreln    Total   Local  Forelin  Total   Exchanae  Base Cost
RNI Reconstr.
MIBali Dam    869.8  1,444.2   2,304.0   2.9    4.8    7.7       4.0X       8.8X
Paving RN3      967.0  2,229.0   3,198.0   8.2    7.4   10.7        8.1%      9.98
Paved Rds.Rehab 2,004.8  8,867.2   6,372.0   6.7   11.2   17.9      9.8X *    14.8X
Graveled Rds.   6,940.0  7,5960.8  18,536.6  19.8   25.8   45.1    20.9%      87.21
Rural Roads     715.8   1,044.9   1,766.7   2.4    8.5    5.9       2.9%      4.8X
Crit. Points    863.0    637.0    900.0   1.2    1.8    3.0         1.65      2.6X
Privatizatior.    289.6  1,188.6   1,478.0    1.0    4.0    4.9     8.8%      4.1X
Civil Aviation    71.6    170.4    242.0   0.2    g.e    0.8        0.6X      0.7X
Inst. Support    878.2  4,640.4   6,413.8    2.9   15.1   19.0    12.6X      14.9%
Studies         260.4    874.1   1,124.6   0.8    2.9    8.7        2.40      8.1X
Pilot Actions    144.2    89E.8    540.0   6.5    1.3    1.8        2.15      1.5%
PPF              70.6    397.4    468.0   0.2    1.3    1.8         1.1%       1.3X
Total
Bwe Cost     12,649.9  28,777.7  386,827.6  41.8   79.8  121.1   8e.6x    100.0X
Physica l
Contingencies   1,087.8   1,676.8   2,714.8   8.6    6.6    9.0     4.0%      7.6X
Price
Contingencies    738.0  1X831.2   2,s69.2    2.6    6.1    8.6      4.4%      7.1%
Total
Project Cost   14.825.?  27.285.7  41.811.4  47.8   91.0  138.7    66.8s    114.5X
Taxes         3,738.7            8,788.7  12.5            12.5
Tota l
Project Cost   iS6.59.0          37.874.   36.3           126.2
(Net of Taxes)
4.38    Total external financing of the project amounts to US$105.3 M or 832 of
total project cost net of taxes.   In addition to taxes, the Government will
contribute US$20.9 M equivalent (about 172 of total costs, net of taxes) through
the Road Fund (para. 6.06). IDA financing in the amount of US$62.0 M equivalent,
represents 492 of total cost net of taxes. Other financing, all on concessional
or grant terms, is provided by France (US$16.7 M equivalent for technical
assistance to a substantial number of transport sector institutions and agencies
(FAC), and for rural roads (CCCE)); Germany (US$6.9 M equivalent for the Ouham-
Pende regional roads rehabilitation project in northwest CAR -- KfW -- and for
assistance to road maintenance and a ferry renovation and development
program -- GTZ); Japan (US$15.1 H equivalent --JICA --, for the reconstruction
to paved standards of the Bossemb6ld-Yalok6 road); European Communities (US$1.8 H
equivalent for the feasibility studies regarding the possible water flow
regulating dam over the Oubangui River) and the UNDP (US$2.8 H equivalent for
the repair and reconstruction of bridges).
H. Responsibilities and Monitoring of Project Implementation
4.39    MTPAT will be responsible for implementation of the road component,
which will be carried out by DPW and monitored by the Monitoring Unit of the
Directorate of Studies, Procurement and Control. MTAC will be responsible for



- 30 -
the components concerning airport security, river transport, road safety, and
transport sector studies.   MTPAT and MTAC have joined responsibilities for
ensuring the adequate functioning of IPCTP. An implementation schedule is given
in Annex 4-13. Although the investments for the rehabilitation and maintenance
program of the TSP are part of the 1991-93 investment plan, their implementation
is 'ikely to stretch over three to five years depending on when these programs
are launched, especially those financed by other donors. However, since these
programs have been designed as individual operations to be carried out over a
three-year period, it is expected that all will be implemented within the
six-and-a-half year estimated disbursement time for the TSP. During the TSP,
a computerized program will be developed and maintained by the Project
Coordinator at IPCTP to ensure continued updating of the actual cost during
project implementation so as to ensure accurate cost analysis for anr.ual planning
and to provide complete cost data by project completion.   In addition,  an
integrated computer system will be installed, linking the computer stations of
the Road Fund, the Equipment Workshop and the project coordination center at
IPCTP to facilitate overall planning ar.d supervision of the TSP program. By the
end of 1992, a mid-term review will be carried out to take stock of progress
achieved with the implementation of remaining policy measures and overall project
execution.
I. Procurement
4.40    Amounts and procurement methods are estimated as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement /a
(USS million equivalent)
Item                 ICB     LCB   Other       Cofinancing /b   Total
1. CivTI Works                      59.2    6.9       6.5         29.7        1l1.B
(88.1)   (5.1)    (3.2) LC     C--)        (46.4)
2. Training Works                     --      --      2.0           --           2.0
(__)    (--)    (2 .0) Ld--            (2 . )
3. Equipment, Vehicles, and Materials   4.0    1.8     --          2.0           7.3
(8.7)   (1.2)    (--)         t--)         (4.9)
4. Incremntal Operating Costs         --      --      0.7           --           0.7
C--)   (--)    (0.4)         (--)          (0.4)
S. Technical Assistance and Train;ng  --      --      4.9         12.0          16.9
(--)    (--)   (4 .8)    (-)(4. 8)
8. Consulting Services lo             --      --      3.6          7.0          10.6
(--)           (53 61                      (3.5)
Total                            63.2     7.2    17.6          50.7         138.7
(41.8)   (6.8)   (13.9)        (--)        (62.0)
/  Amounts In parentheses indicate IDA financing.
/b Cofinancing: parallel financing by donors would be in accordance with their own procedures.
/c Force account expenditure
L  Training works for development of domestic construction industry (para. 4.10).
/a Includes US81.5 M PPF financing.



- 31 -
4.41    Unless otherwise indicated, procurement arrangements for the project
are as follows: (a) Civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of paved and
non-paved roads, and equipment financed by IDA will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Procurement of contracts in excess of US$100,000 will be subject to prior
approval by IDA. This would cover 902 of the total value of such contracts;
(b) requirements for road maintenance (fuel, lubricants, spare parts, tires,
materials, and tools costing less than US$50,000.per contract and aggregating
to US$1.2 M, and contracts with local small contractors grouped in the OPPER
Cooperative costing less than US$150,000) financed through the Road Fund, as well
as the construction of buildings costing less than US$150,000, aggregating to
US$5.1 M, will be procured following LCB procedures; (c) force account works
(para. 4.09) will mainly include repair of critical sections and maintenance of
more remotely located roads that are unlikely to attract international bids;
(d) contracts for training works up to an aggregate of about US$2.0 M equivalent
to be carried out by domestic contractors (para. 4.10) would be let on a
competitive basis among such contractors, as these concern more remotely located
road sections, which require relatively modest works that are unattractive for
ICB. The October 1989 procurement assessment (para. 2.37) confirmed that LCB
procedures are technically acceptable, but some require clarifications and
rationalization.   Procurement procedures also need improvement.   The project
provides for specific short-term consultancies to assist the Government in
avoiding delays in procurement. In any event, LCB procedures to be followed will
include local advertisement with public bid opening, and award to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Criteria for bid evaluation will be clearly specified in the
bid documents and foreign bidders will not be excluded from participating. ICB
procurement for goods and civil works will include the standard provision for
domestic price preference; (e) consultants financed by IDA will be selected in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Consultants, and with terms of
reference approved by IDA; and (f) items financed by cofinanciers will be
procured in accordance with cofinanciers' guidelines.
J. Disbursements
4.42    The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 46.6 million will be disbursed as fol-
lows.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Credit Disburement   X of Expenditures
Category                   Amount of Credit Allocated   to be Financed /a
(SOR MI111on)
1. Civil Works                                      32.0                  95
2. Equipment, Vehicles, and Materials               3.6                   95
B. Incremental Operating Costs                      0.3                  1oo
4. Consultant Services                               3.0                 100
6  Training                                         2.a                  100
68  PPF Refinancing                                  1.1               Amount Due
7. Unallocated                                      4.9
Total                                           4686
in Of amounts not of taxes
4.43    Disbursements for consumables for road maintenance (with contracts up
to US$20,000), and for operational support to supervision, technical assistance,
training, and seminars will be based on certified statements of expenditure
(SOE). SOE statements will be kept available for review by IDA representatives



- 32 -
during supervision. To facilitate project implementation, a special account will
be opened at a local commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
with an initial deposit of US$0.5 M equivalent for expenditures to be disbursed
from the Credit after Credit effectiveness and upon receipt of a withdrawal
request. IDA would replenish this account on receipt of satisfactory evidence
of disbursements for eligible expenditures. Should any disbursements be made
from the account that are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit
the corresponding amount into the account. Retroactive financing in an amount
of US$3.0 M is envisaged to cover the initial portion of reconstruction works
on the RN1, near the M'Bali River (para. 4.05) and related consulting services
for  supervision.      Disbursements  for  civil  works  expenditures  under
Category l(b) -- civil works other than those related to NR1 deviation works --
are contingent on settlement in a manner satisfactory to IDA of arrears due by
PETROCA to the Road Fund (para. 6.05). The detailed disbursement schedule over
a period of 6.5 years for the project is given in Annex 4-14. Due to the advance
procurement needed to complete the RN1 deviation works during 1990-91 for which
an amount of about US$5.3 M equivalent will have to be disbursed, the overall
disbursement profile for the TSP is somewhat distorted, as shown in Graph 1 in
Annex 4-14.   In addition, disbursements in FY91 reflect the refinancing of
PPF 453  (US$1.5 M).   When separating the disbursements related to the RN1
deviation works from the TSP proper (Graph 2), the profile only differs slightly
from the standard Africa Region disbursement profile of seven years. This is
justified because bids for detailed engineering of the road rehabilitation comp-
onent, for which terms of reference are under preparation, will be launched
before the start of the TSP investment program in January 1991 so as to permit
rapid project start-up.
K. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.44    Accounts on road maintenance expenditure are kept by the Road Fund, of
which a separate analysis is presented in Chapter VI. Road Fund accounts, the
accounts of the Equipment Workshop and the Public Works Laboratory will be
audited annually. Because of the initial phase of the commercial management of
the workshop under the TSP, this audit will be financed by the IDA Credit under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA.   Project accounts and Statements of
Expenditure on the Special Account (SA), will also be audited annually. The
audit reports will be sent to IDA within four months after the close of each
calendar year.  The audit report of the project accounts would include specific
verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures out of the SA and an opinion
on the reliability of the SOE procedures and utilization of goods and services
financed under the project.
4.45    IPCTP will distribute to IDA and co-donors a quarterly report on over2ll
project implementation, including the quarterly report prepared by the RMHCG on
implementation of the road component (para. 4.20).
L. Impact on Environment and Employment
4.46    Environment.  With respect to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
existing road network, measures will be taken to protect the environment which
will be considered an important component in the design and executic.a of
infrastructure operations. These objectives will be achieved by including such
measures in terms of reference for detailed engineering and specifications. The
environmental protection measures will take into account that the geographic
areas of the priority road network differ greatly in terms of geomorphology,



- 33 -
hydrology and climatic conditions which constitute the basis for the road
rehabilitation and maintenance "decision table" (para. 4.07) that will be the
framework for the planning and execution of works.   For the existing road
network, measures will consist cf preserving shoulders, surface drainage systems,
road bases and surfaces, anL will include (a) protecting the slopes of
embankments and cuts containing erodible soil, grass seeding or sodding or
planting small trees and shrubs; (b) designing main ditches and turnouts so that
the water will be properly channeled and the ditch section protected against
erosion; and (c) improving critical parts of road surfaces vulnerable to erosion.
In addition to environmental protection, erosion control measures would have the
advantage of reducing maintenance work, especially on surface drainage systems,
small structures and surfaces, while safety is improved by suitable shoulder
greenery, which will improve depth perception by providing vertical points of
reference.   Other measures will consist of clearing ditches to evacuate
stagnating water, and limiting brush fires along the roads by removal of vegeta-
tion.
4.47    As  for  the Yamando-Bambio  road  (para. 2.38),  adequate  Government
measures are already being taken and will be extended to prevent farmers from
establishing plots and villages along the road in prohibited forest areas. The
Government has committed itself to carrying out the recommendations of the
Environmental Impact Study. Several of these recommendations will be complied
with under the TSP (erosion protection, fire protection, studies of a revised
alignment of the continuation of the road to protect the forest and to prevent
migration from existing villages, and optimal solutions for the crossing of the
Mba4r4 River and swamp area to avoid environmental damage to the forest's river
basin). Others (prevention of village settlements, wild life protection, and
improved cooperation between State and forestry companies), will be addressed
under the Natural Resources Management Project, which is scheduled to be
presented to the Board in the near future.
4.48    Employment.   The TSP will create substantial employment for local
workers, as foreign and local enterprises will need local labor to carry out the
road rehabilitation and maintenance works.  In contracts with foreign enter-
prises, use of local contractors will be encouraged, while promotion of a
national construction industry would enhance the local ability to take on
maintenance and eventually rehabilitation works.   Development of a local
construction industry is also likely to provide employment to Government workers
and staff previously engaged in force account works and released under the public
sector reorganization program being executed under SAL.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01    Proiect Benefits.  The TSP is an integrated package of transport sector
policy measures and sector investments in the priority road network, and river
and air transport improvements. Non-quantifiable but important benefits of the
project will be derived from the policy measures, which aim at liberalizing the
transport industry; increasing cost efficiency of road maintenance through
privatization; improving the economic application of limited Road Fund resources
through improved planning and monitoring of the road maintenance programs;
strengthening the national economic management system by solidifyiJlg transport
sector planning; reducing the cost of transport for the economy through
establishing a more transparent river transport tariff system and streamlining



_ 34 -
CAR's transport institutions (BARC, CACC, ASECNA); introducing substantial
reorganizations and institutional reforms in the management and operation of
MTPAT and MTAC; establishing a road safety program; and improving the efficiency
of CAR's public procurement system. Quantifiable benefits consist in reduced
vehicle operating costs and elimination of charges on transport services
resulting from monopolistic state regulations.
Methodology and Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
5.02    National and Regional Road Component.  Specific benefits of the project
are derived from savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) from tLe estimated
traffic when comparing these costs with the "without project" case where the
present level of service remains unchanged over the economic life of the
investment. Basic voc were obtained by applying the HDM III model (a) to various
typical levels (ranging from very good to good, average, bad and very bad) of
service of the priority road network (paved, modern or ordinary gravel, or earth
road); and (b) vehicle types, in order to permit the calculation of the operat-
ing benefits for each type of vehicle. The benefit consists of the difference
between the present level of service of a road and the one corresponding to the
proposed rehabilitation or improvement standards. With regard to vehicle types,
the general composition of traffic in CAR consists of three types of vehicles:
(a) private light vehicles and small trucks, equally represented in this category
(i.e., 50-50); (b) trucks with two axles and heavy trucks with three axles
(represented in the proportion of 67Z and 332, respectively, in this category);
and (c) trailer-truck combinations. Homogeneous road sections (i.e, sections
of the priority road network with similar traffic volume, and levels of service
as described above) were then defined (using adjusted traffic counts, vehicle
composition, and levels of service of the road identified during the feasibility
studies).
5.03    The above exercise resulted in the following distribution of homogeneous
traffic sections: for bituminized roads, 253 vpd on average over 419 km; for
modern and ordinary gravel roads (2,874 km), the composition of traffic varied
from 143 vpd over 136 km, to 73 vpd over 1,170 km, 35 vpd over 1,054 km and
16 vpd over 514 km; for earth roads (5,993 km), the composition of traffic varied
from 53 vpd over 81 km and 31 vpd over 581 km, the remainder carrying a traffic
less than 15 vpd.
5.04    Taking into account a modest growth in the economy as a result of
structural adjustment policies and improving market conditions for CAR's export
products (in particular coffee and cotton), traffic on the priority road network
(4,000 km) is estimated to increase by about 2Z. Using this growth rate, the
above data (traffic composition on homogeneous road sections and future traffic
estimates) were applied to the proposed level of service for these road sections
(i.e., different standards of road rehabilitation and maintenance). Savings in
vehicle operating costs were then calculated and compared with the costs of the
proposed road rehabilitation and road maintenance program.   The difference
between the benefits and the costs resulted in an economic rate of return of 18?
for the paved road rehabilitation component, and 32Z for the gravel/earth road
rehabilitation and maintenance component.
5.05    Sensitivity Analysis of the Paved and Gravel/Earth Road Component.
Reconstruction to paved standards of the Bossembele-Yaloke road is relatively
sensitive to cost increases. When constructed at relatively simple standards
as planned (double-surface treatment while maintaining the present road



- 35 -
alignment) the ERR would be about 11Z. However, if costs increase by 20? and
benefits decrease by 202, the ERR would decline rapidly to about 7?. With a 10?
cost increase and decrease in benefits, the ERR would amount to 9Z. While a
decrease in benefits, which would mainly stem from a fall in traffic volume, is
less likely on this important international road link, a cost increase might be
possible because the cost of the construction to paved standards has been
estimated without the benefit of detailed engineering which is scheduled for
early 1991. If traffic remained constant at the present level, the ERR for the
rehabilitation of the paved network would be about 162.   If costs were to
increase by 102 or 20? the ERR would decline to 12.52 and 8.9?, respectively.
The occurrence of the latter case is rather unlikely because the unit prices of
the rehabilitation costs have been carefully estimated, while adequate provision
has been made for physical and price contingencies. Application of the same
sensitivity analysis to the rehabilitation of the gravel and earth roads results
in ERR variations of 29.7?, 24? and 19?, respectively, which is fully satis-
factory.
5.06    Rural Roads Component.   The composition of the rural roads rehabi-
litation and maintenance component was arrived at by establishing an inventory
of primary rural roads (roads which are directly linked with the national and
regional road network) whose rehabilitation would result in an ERR of above 20X.
This analysis produced a list of about 1,700 km of rural roads, primarily in the
cotton growing area, of which 555 km yields a return of more than 30?, and the
remainder between 202 and 30?.  Under the TSP, 720 km will be rehabilitated,
taking into account the capacity of the executing specialized agricultural agency
(SOCODA). Benefits were calculated by estimating vehicle operating cost savings,
and by including 40? of the estimated increase in value added to agricultural
production resulting from improved access to farms and markets.
5.07    Risks.  No unusual risks are foreseen in the physical implementation
of the paved, gravel and rural road rehabilitation and maintenance components,
as they will be executed by contract and supervised by experienced consultants.
However, in view of the sensitivity of the ERR for the reconstruction investment
of the Bossembele-Yaloke road, careful feasibility and detailed engineering
studies are required to ensure that modest standards are applied. Satisfactory
execution of the national and regional road rehabilitation and maintenance
program carried out by private contractors, including OPPER, and village workers
(acantonnage") depends on the ability of the Road Maintenance Management and
Coordination Group (RMMGC) and the Road Fund to organize and implement these
programs efficiently and to adhere to timely procurement procedures applied by
the co-donors. Similarly, the efficiency of the rural road rehabilitation and
maintenance program using the brigades of the local cotton agency is linked to
SOCADA's ability to restore its capacity to its previously satisfactory levels.
The possibility of these risks resulting in cost increases has been taken into
account by a careful review of unit prices of the road works and providing for
appropriate contingencies. The estimated international price inflation is fairly
stable for the period 1992-96 at about 4.5? per annum. Implementation of the
road component is based on a three-year work program starting in 1991 and should
be completed in 1994. However, possible slippage in part of the rehabilitation
and maintenance program to 1995 has been accounted for in the costing of the
project. The main risk of the project would be institutional weaknesses in the
implementation of the TSP. To alleviate this risk, provisions have been made
on the manpower side to strengthen MTPAT's and MTAC's institutional organization,
including the supervision capacity, and the Road Fund's financial performance.
Project implementation will be supported by task specific technical assistance



- 36 -
and appropriate training programs. The remaining components, strengthening of
airport management and maintenance of river transport, do not include investments
subject to risks.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE ROAD FUND
6.01    The CAR Road Fund has gradually developed from a "special account" in
the sixties and seventies, maintained at the Ministry of Finance and funded
through the general budget, to a legally and financially autonomous public
institution established in 1981. The rationale for this decision was that the
"special account" mechanism of the national budget had not adequately functioned
in providing timely the necessary funds to sustain maintenance works regularly.
The Road Fund is placed under the authority of a Management Committee, chaired
by the Minister of Public Works and Territorial Development and including the
Minister of Finance. This Committee approves the budget, the balance sheet, and
the directions for usage of funds recommended by the Road Fund Administrator.
6.02    The Road Fund's main revenue, the direct transfer by PETROCA of the user
fee contained in the fuel tax, has increased in nominal terms from CFAF 1.0 bill-
ion in 1982 to CFAF 1.7 billion in 1988, and is estimated at CFAF 1.8 billion
for 1989. These increases were principally due to increases in the user fee from
CFAF 24/1 in 1982 to CFAF 50/1 in 1988. However, as a result of CAR's sluggish
economy, fuel consumption has declined by over 25X from a peak of 47,854 mP in
1985 to 34,942 mn in 1988. This consistent decline contributed to the increase
in the user fee from CFAF 48 to CFAF 50 in 1988, in order to cover the minimum
needs of the road maintenance program.   The increase was financed and will
continue to be financed over the period 1990-93 through a gradually increasing
transfer of a portion of the "stabilization tax" revenue of the fuel tax
(Annex 2-3). Additional revenues are derived from ferry charges, income from
the sale of used equipment by MTPAT, and fines paid at Bangui's weighing station,
which amount to only 22 of total revenues. The Road Fund also receives grants
in the form of donor supplies of equipment, and spare parts. The main elements
of the Road fund's 1987/88 Income Statement are provided in Annex 6-15.
6.03    The Income Statement for FY87-88 shows that about 17X of Road Fund
revenues were used to finance road maintenance staff and also MTPAT staff (about
502), who should normally be paid by the Ministerial budget; 16? was used to
finance local costs incurred on account of externally financed supplies, and
contracts for works including maintenance, new construction and/or rehabilita-
tion; 22? went to procurement of fuel and lubricants; 2? was spent on OPPER
contracts and 8Z for counterpart financing.
6.04    A detailed audit of the Road Fund's 1987/88 was carried out in 1989 to
provide clearer insight in the Road Fund's accountability and use of funds, and
to make recommendations for improvements in its operations. The auditors long
form report highlights problems of internal control, such as differences between
PETROCA and the Customs with respect to quantities of fuel consumed, resulting
in undervaluation of Road Fund revenues by CFAF 283 million (about US$943,000);
inefficient billing and revenue collection procedures at PETROCA leading to
three to four months delays in transferring the Road Fund user fee to the Road
Fund account; poor inventory management at the Equipment Directorate making it
difficult for the Road Fund to value the inventory; lack of collecting revenues
from the sale of used equipment (CFAF 7 million); and unpaid contributions in



- 37 -
counterpart funds from the Treasury to the Road Fund in support of some donor
financed road rehabilitation projects. In addition, it reveals the use of Road
Fund revenues amounting to about CFAF 183 million (US$610,000 or 8.5% of total
1988 Road Fund revenues) to road works that were not included in the agreed road
maintenance program.
6.05    The Audit's main recommendations are:  (a) establishment of an ad hoc
committee to reconcile the discrepancies between Petroca and the Customs on
quantities of fuel consumed and transfer of the due amount to the Road Fund
Account; (b) integration of the Equipment Directorate's Accounts with the Road
Fund accounting system; (c) establishment of an efficient billing and revenue
collection system; and (d) establishment of adequate measures of internal control
to ensure that Road Fund resources will be solely applied to road maintenance
related expenditure. These and other recommendations have been incorporated in
the policy measures described in Chapter III (para. 3.09).
6.06    Road Fund Needs during the TSP.   To finance the annual maintenance
program of the national And regional road network (4,000 km), the Road Fund will
require CFAF 2.7 billior (including taxes) per annum in constant terms, or about
CFAF 0.9 billion more than budgeted for FY89 (CFAF 1.8 billion). The rural road
maintenance program (including periodic maintenance) will require CFAF 402 mill-
ion in 1990 increasing to about CFAF 600 million in 1993 (taxes included),
bringing total road maintenance requirements to CFAF 3.1 billion (US$10.3 M) per
annum ',y 1995. To cover these requirements, Road Fund revenues will be increased
by gr dually increasing part of the stabilization tax to the Road Fund account.
To ni itralize this effect on the national budget, to which the stabilization tax
is armally transferred, an existing vehicle tax will be increased, both for
light and heavy vehicles. Taking into account the present vehicle park, such
an increase would provide additional revenues of about CFAF 1.0 billion by 1995,
which would about equal the additional funds transferred from the stabilization
tax to the Road Fund.   Meanwhile, additional funds required would need to be
provided by donor financing, as is provided under the TSP. In addition, as of
1990, the national budget will progressively assume responsibility for paying
MTPAT salaries, administrative expenses and costs for fuel and maintenance of
light vehicles that are not related to road maintenance, estimated at atout
CFAF 144 million (US$480,000), so that by 1993 this amount will be fully
available to the Road Fund. Half yearly reviews will be carried out to verify
the appropriate use of funds in accordance with the agreed road maintenance
program.  The Road Fund would be audited annually by an independent auditing
firm.
6.07    Road Fund Management.   Key staff of the Road Fund, comprising the
Administrator, the Controller, and Accounting Officer/Supervisor of the
computerized accounting system, would need to be in place before credit
effectiveness. A recruitment program and appropriate terms of reference of the
above key staff, as well as a list of required support staff to operate the
computerized accounting system, is being prepared by the Road Fund.
6.08    Justification of the Road Fund. Maintaining the Road Fund as a separate
financing mechanism from the national budget with revenues flowing from an
earmarked user charge is considered justified as an interim measure to ensure
timely transfer of the necessary funds for road maintenance, until an adequate
budget system within the national budget could be put in place capable of
assuming this critical task. During the TSP, the appropriate functioning of the
Road Fund as a separate financing mechanism would be regularly assessed.  By



- 38 -
project completion (i.e., in about six years from project inception), the need
to maintain the Road Fund would be reassessed in light of improvements achieved
in the budgetary system, in particular with respect to its capacity to make
necessary funds timely available for road maintenance.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    Before Negotiations, the following agreements were reached:  (a) the
Government passed a decree abolishing BARC's monopoly and LOX commission on
transport contracts to which BARC is not party (para. 3.02); (b) MTPAT
established the Road Maintenance Management and Coordination Group (RMMCG); and
(c) an Interministerial Committee was established grouping the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Energy, and the Min'stry of Public Wforks,
the Director of Customs and the Director of PETROCA, to verify regularly the
collection and transfer of revenues from the Road Fund user charge.
7.02    During NeRotiations, additional agreements were reached on the following
items:
(a) contents of the Government's transport sector policy statement and
action sian (paras. 3.01-3.11 and Annexes 3-4 and 3-5);
(b) preparation by IPCTP of the annual investment budget before October 31
of each year, for review by the Planning Secretariat and IDA
(para. 3.07);
(c) MTPAT's new road maintenance strategy (paras. 3.08; 4.07-4.19);
(d) size of the priority road network for road maintenance (para. 3.08 and
Annex 3-6);
(e) establishment of commercial management at the Equipment Workshop
(paras. 4.11-4.13);
(f) implementation of MTPAT's and MTAC's new structure and staffing plans
(paras. 4.22-23; 4.29);
(g) annual consultation with IDA before November 30 regarding the annual
transport sector expenditure program, the routine maintenance, periodic
maintenance and road rehabilitation programs (para. 4.21);
(h) execution of environmental protection measures (paras. 2.38-39 and
4.46-47);
(i) cost of the project (paras. 4.35-38);
(j) MTPAT's and MTAC's training and technical assistance program
(paras. 4.23-24 and 4.30, 4.31);
(k) inclusion of the examination of potential riparian issues (para. 4.27
and environmental assessment in the terms of reference for feasibility
study of construction of water flow regulating dam on the Oubangui
River;



- 39 -
(1) establishment of an equipment management unit on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.11-12);
(m) improvement of the Road Fund's accounting system as recommended by the
1988 Audit (para. 6.05);
(n) increase in existing vehicle taxes to mobilize additional funds for
road maintenance expenditure (para. 6.06); and
(o) streamlining of measures for bidding and contract awards and selection
of consultants; training requirements of procurement staff (para. 4.42).
7.03    Conditions of Effectiveness ares
(a) appointment of the Director of Road Maintenance, the Director of Human
Resources (MTPAT) and the Division Chief of Human Resources (MTAC), with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.23 and
4.30);
(b) implementation of the agreed reorganization plans of MTPAT and MTAC
(paras. 4.23 and 4.30); and
(c) appointment of the Road Fund Administrator, Controller, and the
Accounting Officer/Supervisor with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.07).
7.04    The following is a condition of disbursement: disbursement for payments
for civil works under the TSP -- except those civil works related to the
deviation works of National Road NRl at the M'Bali dam site -- will be made only
after settlement of the difference of Road Fund Revenues with PETROCA/customs
and transfer of the agreed amount into the Road Fund Account (paras. 4.43 and
6.05).
Recommendation
7.05    Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed transport sector
project is technically and economically sound, and is suitable for a credit of
SDR 46.6 million on standard IDA terms.
AFlIN
March 29, 1990



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
EXPORTS
(Volume)
(--------Estimates---------
Items                  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991      1992
Diamond ('000 karat) Rav         326.4   342.7   353.2   409.0   370.0   383.0   399.0   411.0   423.2
Diamond ('000 karat) Cut            4.1     4.2      1.2      1.8      2.1      2.4      2.7      3.2       3.6
Coffee ('000 tons)                12.9    18.7    10.2    11.2    13.0    15.0    16.0    17.0    17.0
wood
Logs     ('000 inS)            87.9    64.8    62.7    40.9    45.0    50.0    55.0    55.0    55.0
Plywood ('000 inS)             32.1    31.9    29.9    24.8    29.5    33.0    34.5    35.5    35.5
Other                           5.4      4.5      2.7      1.6      2.4      3.0      4.0      4.5      4.50
Total vood ('000 mS)          125.4   101.2    95.3    67.3    76.9    86.0    93.S    95.0    95.0
Cotton ('000 tons)             12.6    12.9    13.1        8.5      6.3      8.3    10.0    10.0    10.3
0.5     0.5      0.6      0.6      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.5       0.5
2.4     1.7      1.7      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.2      1.5       1.7
Source: Ministry of Finance
AFlIN
March 26, 1990
Dacumfnt: ANX2-1.aar
Diskette: IV ANNEX CAR:jsk
x4



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Traffic Volume 1989
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
AmDo iI.
BIRAO       4:o
Carte des trofics 1989                                                                          0
.~  ~    ' ".           /                              -v'..'t
Oundo Diolle
aOoddo
0 ~~~~~~~0
ai       ;.   :                                                                                                     j B tongo
Boci .o
ossemtejt  SBAN            lo"t
>        _     t    -    l j~~             ~      f5ad                                   Dleina          WnS,
LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU
:4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t
Ca, w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zm Oro
.... K.1            t&= . ssel ** %%_Di BANGASSOU  .      *-
: . :mb q
:.4         AT t                                             em         t
Brb,o  mOAK                                          .
NOLA               *      4*.Oongoumnbo              .    .
.. ,  olo,  .ttOtNDE
AFIIN              .,,                                
March 27, 1990    .           co         0 °
.  .  .                                                                         _      S., 0
.:~~~~~~~~ sO S100  150 200K._    ^



- 42 -                          A     2-3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PRICE STRUCTURE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Premium
gasoline         Kerosine           Diesel
Item  CFA/100 Liters                    d = 0.75  /a        d - 0.80 /a        d - 0.85 /a
1. C.I.F. Matadi                         5,171.00           5,897.00           5,753.00
2. Transit Zaire                          1,256.00          1,256.00           1,256.00
3. River transport                       1,850.62           1,974.00           2,097.38
4. SCEVN tax                                240.75            256.80             272.85
5. River insurance                            7.22              7.95               7.95
COST IN BANGUI EXCL. TAXES            8,525.59           9,391.75           9,387.18
6. DUTIES, TAXES, FEES
6.1  Entry tax                         500.00             100.00
6.2  Supplementary tax               8,200.00                              6,300.00
6.3  Treasury tax                       17.40               0.20              12.60
6.4  Road user fee                   5,000.00                              5,000.00
6.5  Conseil des Chargeurs + RIDT       25.85              29.49              28.77
6.6  Settlement of Centra-Hydro debt  500.00              500.00             500.00
6.7  Repayment to banks                100.00             100.00
6.8  Stabilization (variable)        2,472.92           2,465.78           2,036.03
Subtotal Duties and Taxes           16,816.17           3,195.47          13,877.40
STABILIZED PRICE IN BANGUI
INCLUDING ALL TAXES                 23,341.76          12,587.22          23,254.58
7.  STORAGE                                244.00             244.00             244.00
8. Miscellaneous costs
8.1  System maintenance                370.00             370.00             185.00
8.2  Transport equipment maintenance  230.00              230.00             230.00
8.3  Amortization                      202.00             202.00             202.00
8.4  Overhead                        2,195.00           1,485.00           1,485.00
8.5  Finance charge                  1,708.70           1,706.40           1,650.70
8.6  Profits                           581.54             464.38             4(8.72
8.7  Spillage                          167.00              51.00              30.00
Subtotal Gross Margin                5,454.24           4,508.78           4,231.42
9.  EQUALIZATION                         3,100.00          (4,100.00)           (500.00)
SELLING PRICE EX STORAGE BANGUI    34,140.00           13,240.00          27,240.00
10. CITY DELIVERY                           160.00            160.00             160.00
11. RETAILER'S MARGIN                       700.00            600.00             600.00
PRICE AT PUMP IN BANGUI             35,000.00          14,000.00          28,000.00
PRICE PER LITER                        350.00             140.00             280.00
----------------------------------
/a d = density
AFlIN
March 26, 1990
Document: AX2-3.ear
isktt=: TSP AE)a3 CAR:jdh



- 43 -                    AMNEX  3-4
Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
GENERAL POLICY DECLARATION
(Translation from the French Original Transmitted by the
Government of the Central African Republic)
Introduction
The transportation sector plays a primary role in the economy of the
Central African Republic. Because the country is landlocked and its transporta-
tion system outward and transit oriented, the sector is one of the Government's
priority concerns.
Any mode of transportation in the Republic is generally expensive and
slow, owing to the state of the infrastructure use, the fact that the country
is landlocked, the constraints that affect the productivity of domestic providers
of transport services, and institutional shortcomings.   These difficulties,
which restrict the support the sector affords an economy based on rural
development, are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the international
environment that work against the developing countries.
Mindful of these problems, the Government is committed to a firm policy
of revitalization of the transportation sector, designed to enable it to
contribute more effectively to integrated, self-sustaining development.
1.        Development Plan
In order to pave the way for economic recovery and a return to growth,
the Government, since 1982, has been following a stringent policy of economic
structural adjustment that consists in redefining its own role,   providing
greater incentives for the private productive sector, reorganizing the parastatal
sector, and reforming the administrative apparatus.
This policy has received active support from the international
agencies, particularly the World Bank.  Two successive structural adjustment
programs have been undertaken, the second concluding at the end of 1990.
2.        Recent Measures in the Transportation Sector
Against the background of its adjustment policy introduced in 1982,
the Government simultaneously launched a vast priority road network rehabilita-
tion program known as the Fourth Highway Project. Besides opening up the country
both internally and to the outside, this included a start toward the privatiza-
tion of road maintenance via OPPER, a program to promote small road-building
enterprises.
Measures focused on the other modes of transportation have formed the
substance of the rest of the Government's policy in the sector since the early
1980s: rehabilitation of the river fleet, privatization of river transportation



- 44 -                     ANNEX  3-4
Page 2 of 6
management, modernization of waterways maintenance services, and conversion to
jumbo-jet standards and upgrading of runways at Bangul Mpoko airport.
Some more recent measures have beens  initial deregulation of road
transportation, highway and aviation security and safety actions, development
of applied meteorology activities, and studies for reorganization of two
ministries -- the Ministry of Transportation and Civil Aviation (MTAC) and the
Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development (MTPAT).
3.        Transportation Strategy 1990-1995
In parallel with these recent measures, the Government engaged in a
far-reaching review process which has led to formulation of a comprehensive
strategy for the transportation sector covering all modes and related issuest
infrastructure, plant and equipment, organization, regulatory matters,
facilitation, rate schedules, taxation and institutions.
In view ofs
(1) the heavy burden transportation places on the economy, not only because
the country is landlocked but also because of still substandard
operating performance in both the transport industry itself and
infrastructure maintenance, and
(2) the limited percentage of the domestic investment budget that can be
allocated to the sector, so that choices are necessarily very
stringent,
the Government proposes to incorporate this strategy and the series of actions
it will involve with pursuit of the major objectives now outlined below.
(A)       Institutional strengthening and Dromotion of the private sector.
through the following measures:
(i) the technical ministries concerned are to be reorganized in accordance
with their newly redefined missions;
(ii) sector planning capabilities are to be strengthened;
(iii) the Road Fund is to be reorganized in the interests of its better
management;
(iv) the specialized sector agencies BARC and CCAC (Bureau d'affr&tement
routier centrafricain. Conseil centrafricain des chargeurs) are to be
reorganized so they can provide better services for road haulage
contractors and shipping agents and bring costs down;
(v) increasing use is to be made of private contractors for the execution
of road maintenance works;
(vi) ingisdical resources and vocational training are to be provided for
officiz.. entities;



- 45 -                     ANNEX  3-4
Page 3 of 6
(vii) the procedures used in awarding government contracts are to move faster
so as to preclude losses to the domestic economy resulting from delays
in the pre-award and implementation stages.
(B)       Designation of a priority network of transportation infrastructure that
will ensure the opening of the country to the exterior and make major economic
centers accessible. This network will consist of:
(i) the system of navigable waterways having the Oubangui River as its main
international axis; maintenance operations will be continuous and ways
and means of keeping the river navigable throughout the year will be
studied so that advantage can be taken of its competitive potential;
(ii) a priority network of 4,000 km of the national and regional highways
that carry the heaviest traffic; the concentration of resources on
maintenance of this network leaves little room for building new roads
or moving up to higher standards, not justifiable at present because
of the stagnation in volume of traffic;
(iii) Bangui Mpoko international airport, where safety and security
facilities are to be reinforced; smaller airports in other parts of
the country will receive necessary minimum maintenance.
(C)       Deregulation of the transportation sector, and facilitation
The regulations currently in force will be extensively amended and
simplified, so as to:
(i)  eliminate monopoly  situations,  as well  as  the obstacles  facing
individuals wishing to set up business as transport operators;
(ii) reduce the controls exercised by the various official entities;
(iii) continue tariff liberalization so as to achieve more transparent rate
schedules that reflect real economic costs better;
(iv) make the conditions for competition among the various transport modes
more equitable, especially as regards recovery of infrastructure costs.
In addition, the Government will seek ways of emphasizing cooperation
with transit countries.
(D)       Greater recopnition of the social costs of transportation, particularly
in the fields of:
(i) road safety, where a program is to be put under way;
(ii) the environment, where conservation measures will be taken.
These various measures are summarized in the Action Plan which is now
outlined below and then explained more fully in Annexes 1 through 9, which form
an integral part of this Policy Statement.



- 46 -                     ANNEX  3-4
Page 4 of 6
4.        Action Plan
4.1 Institutional reinforcement
-    As proposed in their Staffing Plans (Plans d'effectifs), MTAC and MTPAT
will be reorganized by the end of February 1990; staff cutbacks will be made and
steps taken to increase efficiency.
-    The role of the interministerial planning unit (sector investment
planning) will be strengthened, through continuation of the technical and
logistical assistance arrangements set up as part of the Economic Management
Support Project.
-    The network of MTAC branches will be extended progressively; costs will
be kept down by associating them, initially, with the decentralized units of
MTPAT.
-    MTPAT structure will be modified progressively so that the agency can
devote more attention to programming, procurement and supervision and monitoring
of works in progress.  Coordination among its divisions responsible for road
maintenance will be improved. A new division will be set up to take charge of
the programming, coordination and supervision of rural road works.
-    As of February 1990, the Bangui Mpoko equipment maintenance shop will
be operated by MTPAT according to private-sector principles of financial
administration. In addition, a study will be conducted in 1990 with a view to
placing it on a commercial type of management system as of January 1991.
-    Before the end of 1990, the Construction and Public Works Laboratory
will convert to an industriallcomercial basis.
-    The Statutes of the Road Fund will be amended to allow for creation
of an internal management audit unit, redefinition of the function of the
Management Committee, and takeover (against the allocation of specifically
earmarked resources) of responsibility for the rural roads previously financed
by MTPAT. The Fund will be subject to annual audit.
External resources intended for road maintenance will be channeled
through or monitored by the Road Fund.  Its own resources will be increased
regularly from road tax revenues, so as to reach a minimum of CFAF 2.7 billion
in 1993. Furthermore, MTPAT operating costs, now financed by the Fund, will be
covered progressively from the general budget so ad to free up resources for road
maintenance, a changeover that is to be completed in 1993.
-    An audit of the Republic's aeronautical and meteorological activities
is to be conducted by the end of 1991, the resulting recommendations being put
into effect within the following six months.
4.2 Transportation infrastructure
-    The Government undertakes to commit itself only to transportation
infrastructure investments which promise an economic rate of return that meets
the ERR criteria generally applied to capital spending projects.



- 47 -                     ANNEX  3-4
Page 5 of 6
-    Road maintenance operations will focus on a priority network of about
4,000 km of roads carrying a traffic volume of at least 20 vehicles/day, while
rehabilitation operations will focus on roads carrying a volume of at least 50
vehicles/day. Maintenance tasks will gradually be transferred to the private
sector through the fostering of subcontracting arrangements and development of
SMEs and local private firms.
Checking for overloaded heavy vehicles at the weighbridge located at
the north exit point from Bangui will be systematic, as has been the case since
January 1, 1990.
-    Waterway maintenance and improvement works (dredging, rock removal,
marking/buoying) will continue regularly on the Oubangui (the stretch below
Bangui), the Lobaye and the Sangha. Methods of improving the navigability of
the Oubangui with a dam to raise low water levels will be studied at the same
time.
-    Airfields outside Bangui will receive necessary minimum maintenance,
and special attention will be given to safety and maintenance at Bangui Mpoko
international airport.
4.3  Transportation operations
Liberalization will be emphasized:
-    a decree will put an end to the monopoly on road haulage contracting
held by BARC and to its associated commissions, prior to mid-February
1990;
-    a decree reorganizing road transportation (free enterprise, simplifica-
tion of formalities) will be issued, again prior to mid-February 1990;
-    BARC's Statutes will therefore be reviewed, and both its staffing and
other costs reduced in the interests of its financial soundness and
ability to carry out its new mandate;
-    the recommendations handed down in July 1989 by the commission that
examined the role of Conseil centrafricain des chargeurs (CCAC) will
be implemented by the end of 1990, in particular redefinition (through
regulatory channels) of its mission, so that competition has freer pl-y
and the agency provides shipping agents with real services;
-    the tariffs currently governing road passenger transportation will be
studied and made more flexible (changeover to the approval or
ratification system) by the end of 1990;
-    a study on river freight transportation costs and tariffs will be
conducted in 1991, and the resulting recommendations implemented before
May 1992, the end purpose being to ensure that service rate schedules
are rationalized, simplified and made flexible.



- 48 -                    ANNEX  3-4
Page 6 of 6
Obstacles to efficient provision of transportation services will be
lessened through:
-    implementation, by the end of May 1990, of the recummendations from
the commission on reduction of road transport controls, as had already
been done with river controls;
-    negotiation, with Cameroon, of measures to facilitate and liberalize
international transportation and transit activities;
-    promotion, within the Central African Customs and Economic Union
(UDEAC), of a system of intra-Community transit regulations;
Transportation safety will be improved through:
-    implementation of a road safety program and,  from 1990,  annual
allocation of resources to road safety;
-    continuation of the Bangui Mpoko airport security program.
NB: Annexes 1-10 of this policy declaration are in the Project File and are
available on request.
APlIN
March 27, 1990
Document: AnxS-4.sar
Diskette: TSP ANNES CAR:Jatc



- 49-                                      ANNEX 8-S
Poge 1 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROGRAM OF POLICY MEASURES AND ACTIONS
|  SECTOR POLICY       I      ACTIONS ALREADY      |                     | MONITORABLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES              TAKEN AND UNDER        ACTIONS TO BE AKEN         AND FOLLOW-U
OBJECTIVES                 PREPAMRATION
A. LIBERALIZATION OF THE TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
- Monopoly position       - Government              - Revision of             - Implementation of
of BARC In awarding       Committee on the          statutes of BARC to       other recommendations
transport contracts       Reflection on the         reflect modification      including
and enforcement of a      role of BARC has          of its role               - reduction in ,tftf
10X commission on         presented a report to    (Condition of              of BARC;
transport contracts       Government with main      Effecti viiFOR            - BARC to fulfill the
to which BARC is no       recommendations to        - Alleviation of          role of a service
party.                    liberalize the            requirements             organization and not
- Access to               transport industry        regulating                a regulatory
profession of             and to abolish the        registration as           mechanism
transporter Is            10X commission            transporter.              - Continuation of
restricted by             (Conditions of SAL                                 collection of road
cumbersome                II).                                                transport statistics
requirements.            - The above Committee                               but this task and
has recommended                                    collection of  Taxe
simplification of                                   our chiffre
requirements for                                   d'affaires  (TCA)
rgistration as                                     should not lead to
transporter.                                        new powrs of
reoulartzatton
- Government issued                                 -  eision on merits
on February 13, 1990                               to maintain BARC as
decree to Implement                                separate Institution
liberalization of                                   (December 199),
transport Industry,                                 following execution
abollshment of BARC's                              of Diagnostic Study.
monopoly and removal
of 10W commission.
B. REDUCTION AND IMPROVED APPLICATION OF TRANSPORT CONTROLS
- Introduction of
- River and Road          - Ad-hoc Commissions      - Review of Intro-        axle load tax
Transport Is hampered    of MTAC In 1988 and        duction of less           - Annual review
by too many controls,    1989 have examined         burdensome customs        during TSP before
increasing cost.         the problem of             controls for ordinary    Dec. 81 of each year
- International           transport controls        transport and tamper      on Implementation
Transport between         and made recommen-        proof seals for           results.
Douala and Bangul         dations for their         container transport       - Intermittent
should be facilitated    removal or                 (Septomber 199).          reviews of
by less cumbersome        alleviation of                                      effectiveness of axle
custom procedures.        procedures.                                         load control.
- Overloading Is not      - UDEAC Study on                                    - Measures to be
adequately controlled    Regional Transport                                   linked with ongoing
and fines are not         Obstacles being                                     UDEAC studies/
collected.                Implemented.                                        masures, Including
- MTAC has rein-                                    axle load tax.
troduced controls on                                - Review of recovery
overloading with                                    rate of axle load tax
penalty provisions as                               (at least half
of January 1990.                                    yearly)



- 50-                                      ANNEX 8-5
Page 2 of 7
SECTOR POLICY           ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORABLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-UP
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION
C. TARIFF POLICY AND HARMONIZATION OF MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE COMPETITION
Transport tariffs         Road Transport            - Continuation of         - River Transport
require further           Tariffs on                policy of tariff          tariff studies to be
liberalization and        internatlonal road to    liberalization.            linked with ongoing
simplification to         Cameroon have been        - Study of road           tariff study of ATC
lower cost of            abolished and             transport costs and        (Congo).
transportation and to    replaced by                actual taxes charsed      - Review of tariffs
encourage                 Indicative tariffs        to travellers to          for road transport of
competition,              generally practiced       change from a fixed       goods and travellers
by the transport         tariff system to a         (taxis, minibuses)
industry,                 liberal price system,    (December 1990)
approved by the           - Measures for
Government before end    transport liberali-
1990.                    zation to be linked
- Carrying out of a      with ongoing UDEAC
study on new tariff       studies.
for river transport
aiming at cost based
tariffs including
seasonal adjustments
during dry season and
a margin for
commercial
negotiation.
Proposals from
SOCATRAF before end
1991.
0. ROAD MAINTENANCE STRATEGY
MTPAT has not yet         Government has            - Decision on study       - Annual review of
established a             adopted a new road        results on                maintenance
satisfactory road         maintenance strategy      reorganizing the          performance of
maintenance strategy.    Including:                 workshop of the           preceding year before
MTPAT needs to            (1) an annual             Equipment Department      November; Preparation
strengthen Its            priority maintenance      Into a commerclal         of next year's
capacity to manage        program of abeut          organization of MTPAT    maintenance program
road maintenance by      4,000 km of national       to be presented kb        before December 1.
force account rather      and regional roads;       December 190.             Programs to be
than carrying out         (2) implementation of    - Commercial               reviewed with IDA
maintenance by            maintenance by con-       Management of             annually before
contract, also            tract and limited         Equipment Workshop to    finalization.
because It Is to          force account;            start as of January       - Implementation of
assume responsibility    (8) Reorganization of    i991                        Commercial Management
for maintenance of        DPW focussing on          - Preparation of a        of Equipment Workshop
tho part of the rural    maintenance manage-        rural roads master        (January 1991).
road network.  Use of    ment under the             plan and rural           - Implementation of
force account needs       Direction of a Road       Infrastructure            rural roads program
to be limited, and        Maintenance Manage-       studits.                  in accordance with
the Workshop of the       ment and Coordination                               rural roads master
Equipment Directorate    Group (RMMG), tnclud-                                plan and rural
needs to be               Ing Road Fund,                                      infrastructure
reorganized on a         Directorates of Road                                 studies.
commercial basis.         Maintenance and
Equipment.
(4) Launching of a
study to establish
commercial management
at the Equipment
Workshop.



- 51 -                                     ANNEX 8-S
Page 8 of 7
SECTOR POLICY           ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORADLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-j
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION
(6) Rural Roads
rehabilitation and
maintenance of 720 km
during 1990-93, with
extension thereafter
to 1,700 km of
primary rural roads
based on experience
gained.
E. ROAD FUND AND FISCAL POLICY
-Road Fund resources      During preparation of    - Implementation of        - Review of
are insufficient to       TSP, the Road Fund        the recommendations       fulfillment of Audit
meet road maintenance    has been audited and       to improve Road Fund      recommendations
requIrements,             proposals have been       operations, of which:    - Continued annual
- Road Fund revenues,    made:                      - Appointment of key      auditing of the Road
which are budgeted at    (1) to Increase Road       Road Fund staff           Fund and Intermittent
CFAF 1.8 billion for      Fund revenues by          (Administrator, Con-      supervision of its
1989, need to             introducing an axle       troller, Accounting       accountina system
increase to CFAF 2.7      load tax and by          Officer/Supervisor):      during implementation
billion annually in       Increasing an             before credit effec-      of TSP.
constant terms to         existing tax on           tiveness.                 - Quarterly reporting
finance maintenance       vehicles to permit         n7itlatTon of            of Road Fund review
of priority               increased transfers       implementation of         of use of fund. to be
nat/reg/rural road       to Road Fund Account       1988 Road Fund Audit      submitted to IDA and
network.                  from the                  recommendations,          other donors.
- Road fund resources    stabilization tax on       - Road fund resources    - Half yearly
neod to be applied to    the fuel price;            need to be applied to    verification of use
road maintenance          (2) to strengthen         road maintenance         of funds In
only, while general       Road Fund                 only, while general       accordance with
expenditures for          Administration with       expenditures for          agroed road
salaries, fuel,           the position of a         salaries, fuel,           maintenance program.
equipment and spare       controller to verify      equipment and spare       Inappropriate use of
parts need to be          appropriate use of        parts need to be         funds would cause
financed from the         funds for maintenanes    financed from the          interruption of
Ministerial budget.       purposes;                 Ministerial budget        further commitments
- Transfer of Road        (3) to integrate the      starting with add-        under the IDA credit.
Fund user charge by       accounting systems of    itional amount of          - Half yearly review
PETROCA are subject       the Road Fund and the    CFAF 50.2 million In       of timely collection
to delays of up to 8      Equipment                 19SO to CFAF 144.5        of Road Fund
months.                   Directorate;              million In 1993.          revenues, Including
-Fuel Is fraudulently    (4) to Improve the         - Settlemont of           collection and
Imported at the          Road Fund's               difference in volume      transfor of revenues
border by inter-         accounting system,         of fuel Imported          of heavy vehicle tax.
national transporters    Including Improved         between customs and       - Half yearly review
to avoid paying CAR's    computerization, and       PETROCA and transfer      of measures limiting
higher fuel price         revenue collection;       of user fee charges      fraudulent Imports of
thus escaping Road        (5) to integrate all      duo Into Road Foarn       fuel.
Fund user fee,            donor financed            Account (condition of
- Road Fund admin-        operations in the         disbursement with
istration Is in-          road sector Into the      respect to road
sufficiently into-        Road Fund Accounts;       rehabilitation and
grated Into road          and                       maintenance program)
maintenance               (6) to accelerate         - Increase In vehicle
implementation,          transfers by PETROCA      tax to permit In-
- Road Fund accounts      of user charge            crease in Road Fund
are not kept ade-         revenues to the Road      Resources from CFAF
quately and require       Fund Account.             2.2 billion in 1991
revision and Improved    - Measures have been      to CFAF 2.7 billion
computerization.          divised to authorize      In 1993
customs to confiscate



- 52 -                                     ANNEX 8-5
Page 4 of 7
SECTOR POLICY           ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORABLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-UP
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION
oversized fuel tanks      - Strengthening of
attached to               measures against
international            fraudulent Imports of
transport vehicles.       fuel.
- Government has          - Modification of
created                   Road Fund Statutes to
interministerial         reflect revisions
committee to verify       before December 1990.
amount of road user
charges collected and
transferred to Road
Fund Account.
F. INSTITUTIONAL REORGANIZATION AND STRENGTHENING
-MTPAT and UTAC           - Recommendations         - Implementation of       - Review of
require                   have been m_de during    agreed reorganization    implementatlon
reorganization to         preparation of the        plans of MTPAT and       measures during
fulfill their Mission    TSP on MTPAT's and         MTAC before credit        execution of Interim
more efficiently.         MTAC's 'Plan              effectiveness.            Technical Assietance
d*effectifse  and         - Appointment of          and Training
their Internal            UTPAT Directors of        component of the
reorganization;          Road Maintenance,         Economic Management
Rural Roads and Human    Project.
Resources with            - Development of a
qualifications and       training program
experiences               before December 1990
acceptable to IDA        on the basis of the
before credit             preparatory work
effectiveness.            during the above
- Appointment of          Interim technical
UTAC't  Division Chief    assistance and
of Human Resources       training component.
with qualification
and experience
acceptable to IDA
before credit
effectiveness.            - Reduced tasks of
- Completion of           CCAC should not lead
adjustment of            to new regulatory
staffing of MTPAT and    powers.
MTAC In accordance
with agreed
recommendation of
*Plan d'effectifs kX
December 31. 1990.
- The role of the         - A UTAC task force       - Implementation of       - Review of merits of
spectalized agency        has prepared recom-       recommendations of        CCAC continuing as a
CCAC responsible for      mendations on the         Task force on the         separate agency bY
CAR maritime trans-       future role of CCAC       modification of CCAC.    December 1991 on the
port, needs to be         for review by the         Issuance of Decree        basis of the agreed
modified In accord-       Government.               modifying CCAC by         recommendations of a
once with the reduced                               December 1990.            diagnostic study.
utilization of its
services.



- 53 -                                     ANNEX 8-5
Page 5 oj 7
SECTOR POLICY           ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORADLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO SE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-UP
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION
A.S.E.C.N.A cannot        Terms of Reference        - Implementation of
meet Its budget           have been prepared to    study with agreed TOR
requirements to           carry out a study to         De Dober 1991.
manage CAR's national    restructure                  Decislon on study's
airports and              A.S.E.C.N.A's service    recommendations k
meteorological            in SAR Including:         June 1992.
services, due to          a) Study of ASECNA's
insufficient funding         optimal staffing
from CAR and over             requirements with
staffing of the              the objective of
national service.            reducing ASECNA*s
current payroll.
b) Detailed Audit of
ASECNA's accounts
c) Revision of
ASECNA's budget
d) Market study
regarding
possible revenues
to be obtained
from selling the
+-.eorological
6..r'.ices to users
irn CAR.
C. INVESTMENT PLANNING AND STATISTICS
- Transport Sector        - Government has          - IPCTP to be             On the basis of the
Investment Planning       established              expanded with a            agreed criteria of
needs strengthening       Interministerial          statistical               priority erJ
and to function more      planning cell for         capability to             satisfactory ERR,
efficiently to            Transport and public      Interpret statistics      IPCTP to prepare
establish and             works (IPCTP) in          for Transport Sector      annual investment
maintain priorities       October 1988.             planning by December      budget before October
of sector investment.    - During Interim           1990.                     31, for review by and
- Transport sector        Technical Assistance      -IPCTP to act as the      discussion with the
lacks Information        and Training program,    coordinating unit for    Planning Secretariat
base due to               IPCTP will receive        transport sector          and IDA and other
inadequate               first part of              Investment planning.     donors.
statistical services.    training and TA.           Donor transport
-Transport Sector                                   sector Investment
investment needs to                                proposals to be
be limited to                                       channeled through and
priority projects                                  analyzed by IPCTP.
with an ERR of at                                   -Limitation of
least 10%, and taking                              Transport Sector
Into account                                       Investments to
Government capacity                                 priority Investments
to finance recurrent                                with ERR of at least
cost.                                               1OX, taking into
account Government's
r current cost
financing capacity.
H. ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
CAR Is experiencing       MTAC has prepared a       - Initiation of           Annual Review of
an increasing             road safety program       Implementation of         results of road
accident rate, while      to improve police         Road Safety Program       safety program by
it does not possess      skills in traffic         following due prep-       November 80, to



- 54-                                      ANNEX a-s
Page 6 oiT 7
SECTOR POLICY           ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORADLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-UP
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION                                                         l
the means to meet         control, to provide       aration by December       adjust or modlfy the
this growing problem      better traffic            1990.                     program as necessary.
due to lack of            signals and medical      l-Wovernment decision
enforcement of            support, and to           on funding road
traffic rules, under      ensure appropriate        safety program
equipped and              technical vehicle         through national
Insufficiently            control.                 budget by December
trained police, and                                 1990.
Insufficient traffic
signs. The ensuing
damage and
unnecessary loss of
life is causing
economic and physical
harm.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
- Due to the              Government has            - Initiation of           - Review of
construction of part      conducted an              implemontation of         environmental
of the Fourth             Environmental Impact      recommendation for        Protection measures
Parallel Road from        Study to provide          Immediate protection      during project
Yamando to Bambio         recommendations for       (wood burning;            implementation.
through CAR's             mitigating the            village migration to      - Close coordination
tropical rain forest,    ecological damage          road side) by January    and implementation of
ecological measures       caused by the             1990.                     other environmental
are necessary to          construction of the       -  nitiation of other    projects, including
protect the forest        road.  These              measures by September    Natural Resources
against village           recommendations           1990.                     Management Project.
migration,                include:
uncontrolled              . measures to improve
settlements and           drainage;
creation of               . widening of
cultivation plots        shoulders to permit
along the road.           faster drying of the
- In addition,            road following
continuation of the       rainfall;
road requires             . measures to arrest
crossing of the           burning of felled
ecologically              trees along the road;
Important Mbaere          . measures to protect
swamp.                    forest from migrating
- On the existing         farmers to start
portion of the road,      plots and to avoid an
erosion has adversely    increase in hunting
affected the drainage    of protected wild
system.                   animals;
. improved
collaboration between
forestry companies
and Government to
protect the forest
from migration and
hunting practices;
. launching of
studies to modify
alignment of the
continuation of the
road to protect the
forest; and
. detailed
engineering and



55                                       ANNEX 8-6
Pag I of 7
I  SECTOR POLICY       |   ACTIONS ALREADY                                  MONITORABLE ACTIONS
AREAS/ISSUES            TAKEN AND UNDER          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN        AND FOLLOW-UP
OBJECTIVES               PREPARATION                                               -
ecological studies to
solve the delicate
crossing of the
Uba6r6 swamp and
modification of road
*lignment.
J. PROCUREMENT
- Procurement Is          - Government has          - Carrying out of a       Provision of
affected by Iong          created a National        study to prepare          Technical Assistance
delays In docision        Procurement Committee    recommendations for        during project
making that prove         to accolerato the         making Its                imploemntation to
costly to the economy    procuremont process.       procuroment system        Improve the
as their delays           - An assessment of        and procedures more       procurement system
adversely affect the      CAR's procurement         efficient, as well as    and procedures and to
benefits of projects      system was carried        to prepare a training    traIn stuff In their
or delay their            out In October 1989.      program of staff          application.
preparation.                                        responsible for
procurement.
- Initiation of
agreed
recommendations by
January 1991.
AFlIN
March 27, 1990
DCcumant: ANX3-5.aar
Disetk: TSP Annexe
(CAR) :jih



- 6o -                                     ANNEX 8-6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Priority Road Network
Length
Identification                                               Km
National Roads Paved                 Ni    Bangui (PK12)--Bossembele                           148
(exclusive of paved sections        N2    Bangui (PKI2)--Oamare                                83
of national roads In Bangui)       N2    Damara-Sibut                                        III
NO    Bangui-M'Balki                                      98
Subtotal                                                                                       420
National Roads Latorite              Ni    Bossembele-Bosoangoa                                148
Ni   Bossangoa-Bedaoyo                                   196
N2    Slbut-Sambari                                      198
N2    Bambari-Alindao                                    118
N2   Allndao-Bangassou                                   234
N3    Bossembele-Caroua Boulai                           439
N4    Damara-Bouca                                       215
Ng   Sibut-Kagabondoro                                   162
NS   Bambart Ippy-Bria                                   211
NS    Carnot-Berberati                                    94
NS    Berberati-Gomboula                                  91
N8    Kagabandoro-M'Br.s                                  e3
NIS  Berberati-Nola                                      136
NIO  Nola-Selo                                            66
Nil   Baoro-Carnot                                        96
Subtotal                                                                                     2,464
Regional Roads Laterite              RI    M'Balki-Mogoumba                                     81
R4   Bouar-Docarngsa                                     142
Re    M'Balki-Boda                                        86
Rio  B.tangafo-Ouandago                                   so
Rio  s.gabandoro-Ouandago                                 48
R28   Yamando-Bambio                                      85
Subtotal                                                                                       601
Ouham Pende Regional Development Program                                                       836
Total                                                                                        4.015
AFIIN, March 27, 1990
A:nnx3-6.aaa (TSP.Annoixes (CAR))



- 57 -                          ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
DECISION TABLE
Methodology for the Design of an Earth Road Maintenance Strategy
I.   Background
1.        The main objective of the transport sector project is to develop a
dynamic road maintenance strategy which could be duplicated and repeated over
the years. However, this strategy would be reassessed every year in the light
of: (i) new macro-economic conditions in the country; and (ii) new possibilities
in mobilizing external financing.
2.        To systematize the planning of the various actions making up the Earth
Road Maintenance Strategy of the Priority Network, a decision table has been
established. The decision table proposes an operation schedule for ti) rehabili-
tation and regraveling (rehab + regrav); (ii) mechanized routine maintenance with
addition of laterite (Reprofilage Avec Apport -- RAA); and (iii) mechanized
routine maintenance with no addition of laterite (R6profilage Sans Apport --
RSA).
II. Basic Criteria of the Methodology
3.        Wearing of the Surface Course. In accordance with the results of a
study of the level and cost of maintenance of earth roads in Central Africa, 1/
the annual wear of dirt road surface course due to the combined action of climate
conditions and traffic can be derived with the following formula:
e = .8(1 + t)
where le" is the annual wear in centimeters and "t" the daily traffic expressed
in hundreds of vehicles per day (vpd).
4.        Surface Course Thickness. The main objective of road maintenance being
to er.sure a good level of service of the road, this means maintaining a surface
course thickness of between a maximum of 15cm and a minimum of 5cm, given the
prevailing traffic conditiona in the project areas.
5.        Traffic Classes.  The wear criteria and the required level of service
imply the classification of the priority network earth roads in four traffic
classes:
Class A: over 80 vpd
Class B: between 60 and 60 vpd
Class C: between 45 and 60 vpd
Class D: between 20 and 45 vpd
1/   P. Blet/CEBTP, September 1982, updated by the BCEOM/TRACTEBEL Group in
January 1990; financed by the French Fonds d'aide et de cooperation.



- 58 -                          A   . 4-7
Page 2 of 9
6.        Timing of Profile Restoration Operations with Addition of Laterite
(RAA) and Rearaveling Operations. RAA operations are performed to reinforce the
surface course whenever the thickness is down to 10cm.  Naturally, the time
intervals of regraveling operations depend on how much time is needed for the
surface course thickness to be reduced to the 5cm minimum. Depending upon the
various traffic classes, the timing of RAA and regraveling operations can be
summarized as follows:
Class A: regraveling every 6 years, with REM in year 3,
Class B: regraveling every 8 years, with RAA in year 4,
Class C: regraveling every 8 years,
Class D: regraveling every 10 years, with RAA in year 5.
To optimize regraveling operations and at the same time take charge of localized
breakdowns, these operations will be combined with localized rehabilitation work
over about 5Z of the mileage subjected to regraveling and identified during
preparation.
7.        Climate Conditions.   Climate conditions, especially rainfalls, are
significantly different north and south of the sixth degree of latitude (one
rain season in the North and two in the South). Routine maintenance of earth
roads with a traffic higher than 60 vpd resulting in an annual wear higher than
lcm must be performed at different intervals:
In the North: One regrading per year without addition of laterite every
year, following the rain season;
In the South: Regrading twice per year without addition of laterite every
year, including one following the rain season.
Consequently, traffic classes "A" and "B" have been assigned an "s" index for
the roads in the South and an In" index for those in the North.  Since the
priority network has no Class "Bn" roads, Class "Bnl has been omitted in decision
tables. Since traffic classes 'C" and 'DI consist of low traffic roads requiring
no more than one RSA operation per year, no geographical classification will
apply to these classes.
8.        Route Distribution among the Various Classes.  The earth road priority
network (2,897 km) 2/ has been broken down among the various classes (Annex 2-3).
The distribution can be summarized as follows:
Class As  :     431 km
Class An  :     152 km
Class Bs  :     459 km
Class C   s     575 km
Class D   :   1,280 km
2/   Does not include road section BosembdlU-Yalok6 (73 km), which will be
reconstructed to paved standards during TSP.



- 59 -                          ANNEX 4-7
Page 3 of 9
III. Decision Table fox Mainitenance Program Scheduling
9.        Decision Table.  Integrating the set of parameters discussed in the
above methodology leads to the creation of a decision table allowing an overall
view of the timing and frequency of the various road maintenance operations in
each road category (Annex 1).
Initial priority network road condition will be established during the 1990-91
preparatory engineering studies. This initial condition will determine the entry
point in each decision table cycle (e.g., a Class "As" road in average initial
condition will be scheduled for a type 'RAA+RSA  operation during the first
year).
IV. Average Annual Operation Program
10.       Since the physical condition of the priority network routes (2,897 km)
varies significantly over time, the project has elected to propose an average
annual operation program for all routes included in the above defined classes.
The volume of the program has been derived on the basis of allocating each year
a part of each road maintenance operation according to the timing and frequency
of the operation.
Example:
For a Class 'As' route (traffic higher than 80 vpd, south of the 6th degree
of latitude), average annual maintenance operations would be as follows:
Rehab + Regrav:  one operation of this type every 6 years for the
entire length of the route, i.e., about 16.62 (100/6) on the average
each year;
RAAs one operation of this type every 6 years for the entire length
of the route, i.e., about 16.6? (100/6) on the average each year:
RSAt nine operations of this type during the 6 year cycle for the
entire length of the route, i.e., 1502 (900/6) of the length on the
average each year.
These annual allocation rates are detailed in Appendix 1, Table b. The average
length on which work will be performed in a given year for each type of operation
is derived by multiplying the length of all roads belonging to a class by the
rate applying to this class, and is entered in the road maintenance work program
(Appendix 4).
11.       Average Annual Allocation of the Various Road Maintenance Operations.
Applying the average annual allocation rates (para. 2.07) to the total length
of roads in the various classes (para. 2.08) results in the length to be treated
each year, per type of road maintenance operation and per class (Appendix 4).
V.   Conclusion
12. Annual Reassessment of the Program. The road maintenance strategy is aiming
at the improvement of the entire priority network and should help in reaching
a good level of service on selected itineraries, after a 10 year period. This



- 60 -                         A   . 4-7
Page 4 of 9
strategy should be: (i) sustained without relaxation; and (ii) reassessed every
year on the basis of traffic counts, which could result in a change of
classification for one or more itineraries and consequently a change in the
timing of applicable maintenance work.
13.       Priority Network ExDansion.   Since the level of service will be
improving, it is natural to expect a corresponding traffic increase.   This
increase -- a synonym of economic flow growth -- should generate new resources
for the Fonds Routier which in turn should result in the expansion of the part
of the total network on which routine maintenance operations could eventually
be financed.



- 61 -                         ANNEX 4-7
Page 5 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
Appendice 1
a. Table de decision des actions d'entretien sur le reseau en terre
P6riodicit4                    PROGRAMMES D'EXECUTION
As          An           Bs           C           D
An 7        2 RSA        1 RSA        2 RSA       1RSA         1 RSA
An 8        2 RSA        1 RSA     Reha+Rech   Reha+Rech       1 RSA
An 9      RAA + RSA      1 RAA       2 RSA        1 RSA        1 RSA
An 10       2 RSA        1 RSA       2 RSA        1 RSA      Reha+Rech
Legende s RSA - Reprofilage Sans Apport
RAA - Reprofilage Avec Apport
Reha + Rech - Rehabilitation et Rechargement
Rappel : As - Routes a trafic > & 80v/j et au Sad du 6&me parallble
An - Idem As mais situees au Nord du 6Ame parallble
Bs - Routes a trafic entre 60 et 8Ov|j et au Sud 6&me parallele
C - Routes & trafic entre 45 et 60v/j
D - Routes a trafic entre 20 et 45v/j
b. Clefs de repartition moyenne annuelle des lineaires
Actions    PROGRAMMES D'EXECUTION EN X DU LINEAIRE DES ITINERAIRES
d'entretien     As           An           Bs           C            D
RSA       150.0 Z      66.8 ?      162.5 ?      87.5 Z       10.0 Z
RAA        16.6 Z      16.6 ?       12.5 Z       0.0 2       10.0 Z
Reha + Rech    16.6 ?      16.6 X        12.5 ?     12.5?        80.0 ?



- 62 -                          A    .4-7
Page 6 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
APRendice 2
Repartition des itin4raires en terre par lots de travaux
No    No        Section de route       larg. Long. Traf. Table de
Itin. Adm.                               tm)  (km)  (vlj) decision
Lot No 4 - Zone Est                            761
41  RN2   Sibut - Grimari                7   120    80      As
42  RN2   Grimari - Bambari              7    78    60      Bs
43  RN2   Bambari - Alindao              7   118    46      C
44  RN2   Alindao - Kembe                7   112    31      D
45  RN2   Kembe - Bangassou              7   122    21      D
46  RN5   Bambari - Ippy - Bria          5   211    21      D
Lot No 5 - Zone Centre                         558
51  RN4   Damara - Bouca                 6   215    30      D
52  RN8   Sibut - Kagabandoro            7   152    89      An
53  RNS   Kagabandoro - M'Bres           5    83    35      D
54  RR10  Kagabandoro - Ouandago         6    48    55      C
55  RR1O  Ouandago - Batangafo           5    60    25      D
Lot No 6 - Zone Nord-Ouest                     856
61  RNI   Bossembele - Bossangoa         6   148    55      C
62  RN1   Bossangoa - Bedaoyo            6   195    37      D
63  RN3   Yaloke - Bossemtele            7    68    80      As
64  RN3   Bossemtele - Bouar             7   149    80      As
65  RN3   Bouar - Garoua Boulai          7   154    63      Bs
66  RR4   Bouar - Bocaranga              5   142    43      D
Lot No 7 - Zone Sud-Ouest                      722
71  RN6   M'Baiki - Boda                 5    85    49      C
72  RN6   Carnot - Berberati             7    94    99      As
73  RN6   Berberati - Gamboula           7    91    70      Bs
74  RN10  Berberati - Nola               7   136    64      Bs
75  RN10  Nola - Salo                    6    55    35      D
76  RR1   M'Baiki - Mogoumba             5    81    53      C
77  RRll  Baoro - Carnot                 7    95    45      C
78  RR26  Yamando - Bambio               6    85    20      D
Total                                         2897



- 63 -                           A       4-7
Page 7 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
Appendice 3
Repartition des itineraires en terre selon les tables de decision
No    No        Section de route        larg. Long. Traf.  As    An    Bs        C     D
Itin. Adm.                                (m)  (km)  (vlj)
Lot No 4 - Zone Est                             761
41  RN2   Sibut - Grimari                 7   120    80   120
42  RN2   Grimari - Bambari               7    78    60                  78
43  RN2   Bambari - Alindao               7   118    46                        118
44  RN2   Alindao - Kembe                 7   112    31                              112
45  RN2   Kembe - Bangassou               7   122    21                              122
52  RN5   Bambari - Ippy - Bria           5   211    21                              211
Lot No 5 - Zone Centre                           558
51  RN4   Damara - Bouca                  6   215    30                              215
52  RN8   Sibut - Kagabandoro             7   152    89           152
53  RNS   Kagabandoro - H'Bres            5    83    35                               83
54  RR10  Kagabandoro - Ouandago          6    48    55                         48
55  RR10  Ouandago - Batangafo            5    60    25                               60
Lot No 6 - Zone Nord-Ouest                      856
61  R11   Bossembele - Bossangoa          6   148    55                        148
62  RN1   Bossangoa - Bedaoyo             6   195    37                              195
63  RN3   Yaloke - Bossentele             7    68    80    68
64  RN3   Bossemtele - Bouar              7   149    80   149
65  RN3   Bouar - Garoua Boulai           7   154    63                 154
66  RR4   Bouar - Bocaranga               5   142    43                              142
Lot No 7 - Zone Sud-Ouest                        722
71  RN6   M'Baiki - Boda                  5    85    49                         85
72  RN6   Carnot - Berberati              7    94    99    94
73  RN6   Berberati - Gamboula            7    91    70                  91
74  RN10  Berberati - Nola                7   136    64                 136
75  RN10  Nola - Salo                     6    55    35                               55
76  RR1   M'Baiki - Mogoumba              5    81    53                         81
77  RR11   Baoro - Carnot                 7    95    45                         95
78  RR26  Yamando - Bambio                6    85    20                               85
Totaux                                         2897          431   152   459   575  1280



- 64 -                          ANNEX 4-7
Page 8 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
Appendice 4
Table de decision des interventions d'entretien sur le reseau en terre
Repartition annuelle des lineaires selon les differentes actions
unite : km
Actions                  PROGRAMMES ANNUELS D'EXECUTION
d'entretien     As           An          Bs            C           D       Totaux
RSA            646          102         745          503        1025     3021
RAA             72           25          58            0         128      283
Reha + Rech          72          25          58           72         128       355
Totaux             790          152         861          575        1281      3659
L4gende : RSA - Reprofilage Sans Apport
R M - Reprofilage Avec Apport
Reha + Rech - REhabilitation et Rechargement



- 65 -                         ANNEX 4-7
Page 9 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
Appendice 5
Table de decision des interventions d'entretien sur le r6seau en terre
Tableau des co(ts unitaires (en milliers de FCFA)
Largeur      431km        152km       459km    409km en 6/7m 784km en 6/7m
Plateforme     en 7m        en 7m       en 7m     166km en 5m   493km en 5m
Actions                Classes de repartition des itineraires
d'entretien     As        An (1)         Bs            C              D
RSA            440          440         440            420           410
RAA            880          880         880            840           820
Reha + Rech       5900         4700        5900           5700          5600
1. 20X des lineaires concernes sont constitu4s de sols lateritiques naturels
L4gende : RSA - Reprofilage Sans Apport
RAA - Reprofilage Avec Apport
Reha + Rech - 5? Rehabilitation et 95? Rechargement
AFlIN
29 mars / March 1990
Document: A:Anx4-7E.ear
Diskette: TSP ANNES CAR



- 66 -                        ANNEX  4-8
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN PEPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PILOT ACTIONS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS
One of the objectives of the PST would be, by means of the multiple
operations which are to be employed and which will constitute very diversified
achievements, to best develop the research, study, experimentation and
development of appropriate technologies, with precise evaluation of their costs,
taking into account the technical possibilities, the skills of the various agents
involved in the infrastructure sector and the socioeconomic conditions.
In addition, these pilot actions should help in the development of the
medium-sized and small enterprises and of small independent contractors, as well
as of their practical training in working according to the rules of the art and
controlling their costs.
The non-exhaustive list for these pilot actions would include:
Ci) for the knowledge, the surveying, the management of systems
of asphalt highways, earth roads and rural earth roads, the
creation of a highway data bank;
(ii) for the maintenance of the asphalt system, the technologies
relating on the one hand to preservation of the trav;lable
surfaces (sealing of cracks, cold mix for filling in potholes
and small crack plugging, wearing surfaces of hot mix of medium
and small thicknesses....) and on the other hand to vegetation
control (application of chemical products,...);
(iii) for the improvement of the permanence of earth roads and of
roads at their critical points, the technologies of:
* studding of the travelable surfaces by means of stony
materials of different sizes in the inclines or in areas
subject to erosion;
* sanding of traveled surfaces that are too slippery;
*  stabilization with sand of natural gravel sections that are
too plastic;
*  chemical stabilization of the materials of surface courses
in steep inclines, vhich are seats of erosion phenomena;
*  chemical stabilization of embankments in the vicinity of
civil engineering works;
*  special treatment of embankments for spanning zones of
compressible and swampy soils;



- 67 -                        ANNEX  4-8
Page 2 of 4
* utilization of erosion control devices for the preservation
of currents and hydraulic sections of ditches, diversions
and surface drainage works (studding, pitching, protection
by   fascines,   wattling,   "stilling"   basins,   storm
ditches,...); and
* use of termitary earths for the surface courses of certain
roads;
(iv) for some highways and rural roads, for drainage works and
civil engineering works, the technologies of intensive use of
wood and local materials adapted to the geomorphological,
hydrological and climatic situations of different routes, with
the employment, depending on the traffic, of rustic or more
elaborate solutions, which are nevertheless always dimensioned
to meet the requirements of the structural calculations, by
using for the elaborate solutions "pieces of wood' fashioned
in industrial manner in sawmills; and
(v) for road mending, the technologies using small-size equipment
and equipment that is appror-'ately chosen as a function of
the "size' of the contractors and of the skills of the crews.
The above-mentioned pilot actions would, in their different development
stages (research, study, experimentation, development), be initiated by different
task forces, which could be named:
--   "Asphalt highways maintenance" task force;
--   "Earth roads permanence stabilization' task force;
--   "Intensive use of wood and local materials for the works" task
force; and
--   "Road mending" task force.
The task forces would depend on the TSP coordinator. The members of
these groups would be representative of :
--   the Administration, and in particular of the technical ministries
(Secretariat to the Plan, Department of Public Works, Department
of Rural Development,...);
-- medium-sized and small enterprises and small independent
contractors;
--   design agencies participating in the corresponding operations of
the TSP;
--   the Public Works Laboratory; and
--   if possible, professors of advanced technical establishments and
their students of final classes.



- 68 -                         ANNEX  4-8
Page 3 of 4
The choice of members being made as a function of the nature of the appropriate
technologies.
It would seem logical that, depending on the stages of development of
the pilot actions:
--   research and study would be the responsibility of the representa-
tive persons of the technical ministers, of the design agency in
charge of the operation as prime contractor (in which the pilot
action is included) and of the laboratory;
-- experimentation (practical execution of test slabs) would be
performed by the enterprise or the small contractor responsible
for execution of the operation (in which the pilot action is
included), would be initiated by the above-mentioned design
agency, and would be tested by the laboratory; and
--   final development and tying everything together would be entrusted
to the representatives of the technical ministries, to the
enterprises and small contractors and to the laboratory.
Depending on the above-mentioned stages, and per task force:
-_   research and study would be preceded by meetings that would lead
to an explanatory seminar;
--   experimentation would be crystallized by one or more seminars to
discuss results; and
- - final development and tying everything together would be the
subject of the final seminar.
Simultaneously for the appropriate technologies, specific subjects
would be proposed to the students of university technical schools for their
finishing studies, to end in specialized seminars.
All of these seminars, which would be presented to expert technicians
and discussed with them in depth. would lead:
--   on the one hand to a final report recapitulating and combining
the results of the seminars and discussions;
-- on the other hand to ensure dissemination of these appropriate
technologies to a broader audience, to technical conferences.
These conferences could have a didactic character and be based
on attractive and vivid audiovisual support.
Thereafter, each well mastered appropriate technology would be the
subject of detailed technical specifications giving:
--   a vivid and detailed description of the technology;
--   the detailed list of the materiel, equipment and tools;



- 69 -                        ANNEX  4-8
Page 4 of 4
--   the list of materials and products;
--   the detailed timetable of execution of the jobs;
--   the practical dimensioned execution sketches and the specific
dimensioned sketches (for the reinforcing irons);
--   the bill of quantities and estimated costs;
--   the measurements and tests for inspection and receiving;
- -   the maintenance operation to be performed for good preservation
of the finished work; and
--   the specifications to be introduced into the bidding or into the
work contracts.
The planned capital expenditures in the TSP for these pilot actions
would be 30.000.000 CFAF for each year during the three-year period from 1991
to 1993, i.e., 90.000.000 CFAF.
The planned capital expenditures in the TSP for the seminars would be:
--   75.000.000 F CFA for preparation;
-- 20.000.000 for the 3 year support.
AFlIN
March 29, 1990
Document: A:nnx48.ser
Diskette: TSP Annexes. CAR



- 70 -
ANNEX 4 - 9
COWL  N  RECt
ftmW  waWf    -0U
T QflICM. *semevAiCO POT E
IPGT'TUTII  tO 9wwv                MUTIR41                               TOTA
ItPAT
RSILITATTON NO
KANTwC  aoie
P000M~3O SPTALIS                     so             430             211000
SIOYAD eEIORUeG
PECALIST                                 so             430             2100
SUPERVISION SPECIALIST                   so             4300            211000
MtO.PRETW SPECIAA=S                       3             Sa00             1000
PM    RUN SMULIST                        so             4300            2110
SUMJtOTAL                                                               6700
TRAINING C1E4R
TRAVINI  AND PSPSON.L SSALIST            50             4SO0            210
TRtAtNIN  ASSISTANr                      30              110             48000
PEARATION1 6S ASO                                15     so00             7000,
SU-TOTAL                                                                135000
PRtVATIZATION
-ANAMuSfT EXPER OPPIR                    30             gm              Isom
RADA CONSTRJC?I0  TRADG                  20              400             60000
MAIHTOVAC SSPVWIS                        30              I1OO            1400
C4IS PE4 84OlM   WOKH                    50 so000                       2100000
I8'weICAL TOHICIMM  (Z9)                to1o             4300           410000
TRAI N  9JPX)                             S0            4300             SO0=
S4ALL CLMSTWT,00  M4 ASSISTAD6
T00 SH     TIM  (1M 21n                  12              I250            is0
LCAL SW SSn (MM w )                      3                100             1800
PROMOTIONAL STUDIES                                                      10t
S--TOTAL                                                               10900
ROAD RIO
ADM                                      soRT6  1       am0             20000
CONTROLLi                                s0              4300           21100
ASSISTANT CIVIL eMOIMR                   30              110             4600
coe.uvmp ThAWO                            3             6400             14200
829200,
IEAC
SOCATRA  ( It MEWICS)                   240              3800           640000
RI'VR MADMTWiCE(5CWQ                   170              3800            SO1000
SAA  DOIsm                               10              400             4000
MMA  SAMWrY WPOCtALISV                   12              4800            so00
AND SWATIO" PROOM                         1              300             17800,
PRJW  cOO0VuMTgm                         so              Gmo            m500
CO6'UV   SPfCIALIST                      12              4300            Sim0
PLAIUIP  IRANMDO                         12             3300             4020
SID64VsISS TUAPOIN                       12             *500             40600
Urn-TOTAL                                                               -000
TOrAL                                                                  433700



Le Nouvel organigram ptroposF
Mnstioro des TP                               |FodRutr|
et. do IA  nagomnt du Torritoer.                  .        [off1out1e
u~~~~ _I.........                         ...
Cabinet
|C.iwI Ilore Techniques               Inspection Centrl-               L rtolre Control]
| Sbet......3.............................................
DColuule de Planlficatlon
Division Comptobl- |                                     |  Direction desI
et Ftnnocibr                                                  Log--t         I
Ad tnlotratifs | 
IDir ction do                                                  Dlr ctton      I-
R _ uro" b      ii                                        jo la Lnistiique
Olr ction 4dnora                           Dr.             irectteon dn6ro      ec
do4 TP                                                de I "A nogo  nt
Iw T  eto
|Centr81- de Ceotlon           D)ctloo do Not6rTi  |         ir ctlon de     Oir ctt n de      Ol   ttnd  Cod tre        Dlrctton de
et do Progr_aation                                         I 'A^aone nt      I Urbanlsm                                  I'Hobitet et do
du Torritoir.                                                La Construction
Dirction dEtudesde              Direction des Routes
Prgea_  tton & Marc9h6o                                            ......... ........................
Chantiors Routier    |
runit.6           subdivisions                                        Liaisons Hi6rarchiques
|......    Liaisons fonctionnellos



- 72 -                    ANNEX 4- 11
I
S
1111si Ii I1
.1                                 IIIu
U                U          I
I                    I             liii
I
I                       I
Ii
I I



Central African Republic
Transport Sector Project
Project Cost Sumary
FCFA 000                          uSe 000                         X Total
___________ _  -------------- --  X Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
A. Road Works
1. Paved Roads              42259590.8  C84136.2 10872087.0    148.6  2213.8  386240.3             81.1       29.9
2. Graveled Roads           5704520.0  8038685.0 13743185.0     19015.1  26795.5  45810.8          68.6       37.8
S. Feeder Roads              714360.0  1048340.0  1760700.0      2381.2   3487.8   6869.0          69.4        4.8
4. Critical Points           360000.0   640000.0   900060.0      1200.0   1800.0   3000.0          60.0        2.5
…_ _ _  _ _ _    __-- .   .… -  -   __  __________ - ----- … -…- ________________________
Sub-Total                     11004830.8 16271141.2 27275972.0     36682.8  64237.1  90919.9          59.7       76.1
B. Aviation
1. Air Transport              48468.0   103392.0   161850.0       161.5    344.8    508.2          68.1        0.4
2. Meteorology                22500.0    67600.0    9000.0         75.0    226.0    300.0          76.0        0.2
Sib-Total                        70968.0   170892.8   241860.0      238.5    569.6    8086.2          70.7        0.7
C. Privatization
1. Workshop                  229640.0   849880.0  1079400.0       765.1   2832.9   3698.0          78.7        3.0
2. SME Support                68310.0   330890.0   387200.0       187.7   1103.0   1290.7          85.5        1.1
Sub-Total                       286850.0  1180760.0  1466600.0      962.8   3935.8   4888.7           80.6        4.0              <
0. Institutional Support
1. MTPAT Support             444975.0  2301325.0  2748300.0      1483.2   7871.1   9164.3          83.8        7.6
2. Planning Cell Support      69420.0   401680.0   471000.0       231.4   1338.6   1570.0          85.3        1.3
3. IITAC Support             288015.0  1689885.0  1977900.0       960.0   6832.9   6593.0          85.4        6.4
…-… ----- -   _ - ------ - _ ______________________------…
Sub-Total                       802410.0  43M9790.0  5195200.0     2874.7  14642.6  17317.3           84.6       14.3
E. Studies A Pilot Actions
1. Studies                   318800.0  1274400.0  1593000.0      1082.0   4248.0   5310.0          80.0        4.4
2. Pilot Actions             143250.0   396750.0   540000.0       477.5   1322.5   1800.0          73.6        1.5
_______   _…________…_-…_______   _   ____  _   ______________________---- - _---_____________- _________
Sub-Total                       461850.0  1871160.0  2133000.0     1639.6   6670.5   7110.0           78.3        5.9
Total BASELINE COSTS          12825898.8 23686723.2 38312622.0    42086.3  78965.7 121042.1           65.2      100.0
Physical Contingencies      1062178.8  1886141.4  2737320.0      3607.3   6817.1   9124.4          81.6        7.5
Price Contingencies          744228.5  1816692.9  2659819.4      2480.8   6062.0   8532.7          70.9        7.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS          14422303.9 27187457.5 41609761.4     48074.3  60624.9 138699.2         65.3       114.6
-- - ------------------------------~~~~~- --- -------------
3/23/1993 14:40
0 
"3
4.D



Cest,ol A#,lco. Ropobilo
Tre"rt Sowt.r P.J.t
Sou_er1 Acaoct by P-Joot Comp~t
rc A eu
plmma.9                                                       c mPoyole              P,lc
Pav      Grarled    Fod        CWOtWcl       Al,    btteoolog                 So6        SWAT          Coll       tTAC                   Pilot
Rood.      ROD.       Ro.r      P.l.t.    Trwpoft        y       I.b.        5rp Sop9t    5099049     5urppot    Suport sr       dfl.    Aftloos      T"ol        S       A-oot          
1.DmEt  CCTST
A. Civl tIbbe    126MI.8  12762270.0  16246mg                      _    e6t 121640.0         0.6        e.g        6.6    406e6.6            6.6        0.e 6.6               0.6  2716457.0         0.1  25104.e        7.2  1team6.?7
i. M =                                6.0        0.0        6.6        6.6 em. Se.0 e-e.e                       17e. e     n            ae 14 e.0    427M.         6.0   BUNCO  168 .6              0.6 e28.0            5.1    at1s. 7
C. TcsoI A.olt6.cO
1. uo Commoo,.alq                  6.    .0         0.6        0.     6  0.      6 .       660        66      20. .0                       0*         66         66 0.  0.0         266.0 0.0 311.  .0       0.6      6.4       166.9
4. Sllmb"                           6.              0.6  e.g .e  e-  e             e.g  e.  6         60        1.a    06e 11.0            66     884260         06         6.0   172e661.0        .0        6.6       0.0   51882.7
0.5-t*#At                             ;. ;.                  .         6          0           6    7s04m       2426.   2120.6 o                    147846          66      72et.e   510e6.0         6.1      5eM.0       7.S    s7o"
D. Stodboo A r Ssp..,Soie        525666.6   416606.0 e       6         0.Z e   e0  56s6.6 e   .0        6.6    16666.6e         e 46nee.0 462660        0I 10311666           0.6  n246.            6.1   107076.        6.s   10107.0
E. biscool o                         6.6        e.e         0..        0.6        0.e        6.6        6.0        6.6    21.0               6.6      7666         06e   127066.0   2e40.e          3.1    6e86.6       6.4    IStM.4
Total 199651224 £001           107901147.6  1817027.0  172006.    56.        216180.6    0666.6    P907046.    86826.6  26905111.0      44411106.5  112026.0  ISWM.0   040666111.0 18442617.0       L.S  2681074.6       7.1  286020.4
IZ. tEtl4T  £201
A. Eq.1lpit OK                       6.          6.        e 6.6       6.6 0.6               0.6        6.6    186m.6   186.6e oom0 e.o                            0.6               21166.0        9.4    16.0         6.      134.
b. Road Uol 6I4      6            n724.6   16415.0    25206.6          6.6        0.6        ee         0.6        0.6        0.6            e.g        6.0        6.6        0.    e28688.0        6.e0   6626.6        6.5    42065.1
Total RE6CI  tDSTS                72146,   S6661.6    20206            6.6        6.6        6.6        0.6      se6.6   16166.5         27 n6.6    111..e         6.6        0.6   0744s5.6        9.9    se248.6       6.0    67294.6
Tout BASSL   £2219              =2118 7.0 6 274315660   1    0 M766766 6    MM.:   551666.0   9etn7a.:  10766.    26.6  2746266.       4010        1                      64.9   20212022.6         7.5  273726.6       7.6  25 0.4
P~2..bool Co.tIng..clo.  8666616   1874815     17067 60   06.          M70.     OWN.       DOM         460.0    5686.0          2616.      44186.6    86750.0    27.610   2721226.6
P.1,. Cmtl.ooooloo             76877     9746407   186764 6    67406.6    6S89.1        2202.2    12340.0    20261.9   297266.e o        20029.    182862.6    74127.7    t948Z.l  200619.4       7.2   166042.7
Total P6JCT 0tSTS              1202761.34 1606120.2  2603474 610674.0   16841.0   101282.2  152749.6   426461.0  2061566.6              6119.   2160651.6  17227'.?  6o6141.5 426O680.4             7.0  2923068.7      8.2  28s0019.4
TOWN174628 7  1206567  11074    64666.6  1.0                6M.$ e.0    42242.8    24075.7   141246.6    268.8       0212.4    661ls.0    2111.6e   74179.6         7.4   27e02.7
PIV.lg. b                     7 67         766      14   2   620669.1   118106.6    7680.1   641614.4   80216.6  251274.              42574a.7  16068.7  11206.7   4428.5 27177.5                 0.7   162.4
8/231156 14.46



Central African Republic
Transport Sector Projeet
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                        Totals Including Contingencies
FCFA 00                                                US$ 000
1991        1992        1993       Total            1991        1992         1993       Total
I. DIESTM    COSTS
A. Civil Works                     10726005.1   9463e97.4   9787222.3  29901924.7         35780.0      31455.7     32467.4     99673.1
B. EquIppmnt                         903909.7    713278.9    191016.1   1808203.7          8183.0       2377.6       638.7      6027.3
C. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultancy                1221.0      1268.7      1811.2      3795.9             4.1         4.2          4.4        12.7
2. International Experts         17 U681.7   1154846.1   2005886.2   4863764.0          5678.8      3849.5       6684.6     18212.5
8. Short Term Consultancy         175057.3    146145.9    209686.7    529651.9           563.6       488.8        898.8      176M.2
4. Fellooships                     72069.9     5496s6      57627.8    184692.7           240.3        163.2       192.1       816.8
Sub-Total                           19S1976.9   1858222.2  2278905.4   5582104.5           65o.6       4520.7       7679.7     18807.0
D. Studies A Supervision            1616847.8    747803.5    712907.4   8671618.5          6385.5       2492.0      2876.4     19253.9
E. MIsceallenous                      82308.0     80302.0     40765.6    223375.5           274.4        267.7       202.6       744.6
-_- - - -___- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -- ---- --   -                                   % 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             15261847.2  12334104.0  12976815.7  40591766.9         593s9.5    41113.7       43252.7    135305.9
tI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Equipment OMC                      78802.4     81960.5    85862.0   246114.9             282.7        273.2       264.5       820.4
S. Road Manual Maintenance           247518.4   255796.0    286857.2   771879.6             625.1        852.7       895.2      2572.9
994_                  ---- ;-- - ------------ - - ---------
Total RECURRENT COSTS                826316.8   837746.5   368929.2  1617994.5             1087.7       1125.8      1179.8      3393.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                113329744.9  41609761.4                                52027.2     43             4        18889
____ _-_-______ _ ____ _ __________________ - -_----__ - - --- -… - ________
8/23/1990 14:40
ft
0u
(A)



ANNEX 4-13
-76 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Impl..eutation Schedule
czonf,its                  190         91       199R       19        19         1995
A. TechnicaL A"istame
Privatintion
13. Mechie a  Thaniner Fl IEn
2b. Spec ilixd Technician                             _
3a. techanie ltTr inr
3b. Mechanical Trainer
4. Accouatant                                     *     **
SlE Support
1. *manegmnt Expert
2. Road Contrution Expert                        -
3. Ju nor Expert (VSN)
nTPAT Support
1. junior Expert (VS)
2. Training Exrt
3. Training Junior Expwrt (VSN)
4. Studies Expert
S. Ptanfiecetion Expert
6. Supevision Expert 
7. Road Fund Ainistrstor
8. Road Fund Supervisor
9. Computer Specialist
SARC Support
1. Tranport exprt
Plamin Cell Sort
1. Project Coordinator                                      -
2. Couter Speeialist
B. DetaIled Studies
1. * Pad Road                                    -     
2. Graled Rods                                   -          -
3. Feeder Road
C. Road Verb Supeision
1. Lot ni1  80l86Uo/60884MM-
2. Lot n@2 - U*blt (CR1)               --
3. Lot nY3  Paved newo                             - 
4. Lot n*4 - Sibt/3w su                                     -
S. Lot n*  Cnte Area 
6. Lot n-6 - North-West Are                                 -          -
7. Lot n? - South-West Ar 
8. Lot n1 8   Feede Roa 
9. Lot n*9 -Srfids *& culvet  1IzI[-1
O. _emimet  Mfnt                                IIw                            II 
o ine ftferol Coe"ition sidIng
I



- 77 -                       ANNEX  4-14
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Standard
FY                                          D;isbursement
S.Mestrs        Cumulative     Cumulative      Country Profile
IDA's FY       USS Ui Iion     US lMillion         X                U
FY91               4.00            4.00            0.0            0.01
4.30            8.30            0.13            0.08
FY92               3.60           11.80            0.19            0.12
6.00           16.80           0.27            0.16
FY93               5.70           22.50            0.36            0.28
8.00           30.60           0.49             0.39
FY94               7.00           87.50            0.60            0.62
6.00           43.50           0.70             0.62
FY96               6.50           49.00            0.79            0.73
6.00           64.00           0.87            0.84
FY96               4.00           68.00            0.94            0.90
2.20           60.20           0.97            0.93
FY97               1.80           62.00            1.00            0.95
0.J9
FY96                                                               1.00
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
veus coueny prof 
0.7 -
0.9 
0.6
0.7
0.36
002.
0.4
0.
FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98
IDA Fiso Year
0   ctancdard           +   T S P
Including rapid disbursing componentfor RN1 M'Bali reconstruction works
(US$5.3 M during 1990-91; and US$1.5 H PPF refinancing at Credit effectiveness).
AFnM
fMrch 27. I0



- 78 -                       ANNEX  4-14
Page 2 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
varu countX prof
0.8 
0.7-
&  0.0
0.6 
&L    0.4-
0.3
0.2-
0.
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY93      FY96       FYn6      FY7       FY98
IDA FISCL YEARS
a   STANDARD            +   TSP             RNI MSW
TSP disbursement profile excluding rapid disbursing component for
RNl li'Bali works.
AFlIN
Nardh 27. 1iO



- 79 -                            ANNEX  6-15
Page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD FUND FINANCING
I. REVENUES OF THE ROAD FUND
On the basis of the audited financial statements of 30 September 1987
and of 31 December 1988, it turns out that the Fonds Routier (Road Fund) is in
a deficit situation (240 million CFAF in 1987 and 5.9 billion in 1988) due mainly
to insufficient revenue allocated to cover the current operating expenses. The
87 deficit does not include provisions for major repairs or for replacement,
whereas these two provisions are included in 88. To remedy this situation, which
ultimately would risk compromising the realization of objectives assigned to the
Road Fund at the time ot its establishment, an increase of revenues is proposed
which does not necessitate, under the present economic conditions, raising the
price of fuel at the pump. This increase would lead to the following revenue
levels: 2.1 billion in 1990, 2.2 in 1991, 2.4 in 1992 and 2.7 billion in 1993.
If these objectives were to be attained, the Road Fund would be able to cover
its operating expenses for the period in question (1990-93). These expenses
should be understood in the broad sense, i.e., including amortization of the
Road Fund capital assets and provision for replacement of the equipment stock.
The establishment of this provision is justified by the needs for equipment
necessary for maintaining a force account crew for repair of critical road
sections as well as a crew for regrading operations. While changing from work
under force account to work by contractor during the Transport Sector Project
(TSP), the two above-mentioned crews will be maintained to permit the Road Fund
to continue some activity under force account on highways, civil engineering
works and ferries.   This provision has been calculated on the basis of the
replacement value of the stock at the end of 1989 (estimated as 1.8 billion CFAF)
and taking into account the average remaining useful life from that date (5
years).
II. HIGHWAY FUND AND HIGHWAY TAXATION
The revenue levels mentioned in Chapter I would not be attained without
a progressive increase of user fees, since it is understood that macroeconomic
forecasts indicate very small variations in the volume of fuel consumed relative
to the 1989 level. Under these conditions, it is planned to transfer part of
the stabilization tax to the Road Fund.   If this transfer should become
effective, user fees for the 90-93 period should then be understood as over and
above the stabilization tax.
In order to compensate the reduction of the fiscal resources that would
result from such a transfer, it would be advisable to institute appropriate



- 80 -                            ANNEX  6-15
Page 2 of 5
highway taxation measures intended to increase Government revenues, which
measures could include an increase in the vehicle tax.
III. PROGRESSIVE FINANCING BY THE MTPAT BUDGET OF EXPENSES
FINANCED BY THE ROAD FUND AND NOT RELATED TO UPKEEP AND MAINTENANCE
The audit reports for the periods ending 30 September 1987 and 31
December 1988 indicated that the resources of the Road Fund had been used to
finance fuel, salary, upkeep and repair expenses of vehicles that are not related
to highway upkeep and maintenance. These non-maintenance related expenses were
identified during appraisal. They rose to about 146 million CFAF in 1988 (12
months) and are estimated at about 150 million CFAF for 1989.   For 1990,
projections suggest an amount of 144.55 million CFAF, which would have to be
absorbed by the national budget.   Of this amount, 112.55 million CFAF was
determined on the basis of the three following criterias the capacity of the
Government budget to absorb the expenses in question, the comparison of the
expenses with expenses of the same nature committed by other ministries, and the
specificities peculiar to MTPAT.  The difference of 32 million CFAF concerns
building maintenance (15 million CFAF), maintenance of equipment and office
equipment (10 million) and purchase of equipment and office equipment (7 million
CFAF), which in principle should be taken from the Government budget starting
in 1990. It has been assumed that the projected amount of 112.5 million CFAF
would serve as the basis for determining the share of expenses to be financed
by the MTPAT budget. Consequently, on the basis of discussions with officials
of the Road Fund on the one hand and of the Ministries of Economy and Finance
and of MTPAT on the other hand, it is recommended that financing by the budget
of MTPAT be effected progressively from now to the end of 1993 in the following
manners



ii                      N $J S  0; 00 gX   XD Nf *i fi gt -
1§        *§*       s@W@X             t         e 
11 j                |||||     Jl    *
SS  18 s  S  u S    IA      0 .H  O
WS                        §§gggW                     R
WS  1S   W                        >  ~~~~~~~~~~8    mcx
WE  1   W                   W  g  MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00



CENTRAL ARICAN REPULIt
TRAMNSPFtT SECTOR PROJECT
good Fund incoam Statesent. (CFAF ml Ii onal
F Routi Sdo MTPAT F Rquti 8do MTPAT F Routi bdo KTPAT F Routi Porti,      F Routi Portie    F Routi Port;i    F Routi Portia
1S o;s  15 so; 2 12 sooe I2 MSe                                fP.nncoe/           Finance./          Financoo/          Finence*/
1988     198      1988      1988     1989     1989      1990  PITFAT 00   1991   MTPAT 91   1992  PITPAT 92   1993   ITPAT 03
Petrocs                          217200D            1737B00            175000            2100000            2200000            2400000            2600000
Othbr                              a8o00              30400             3s000              42000              44000              480C0              52000
Total SRevenue           22100C0            176b000           1785000            2142000            2244000           2448000            2652000
Cburent FonctConneoent            886019    13000   244615    10400   332542    35504   349169    30000   356162    30000   363275    30000   370541             0
Carburant Mission                  60169    290    48135    18472    59100          715    62065    14000    63296    14000    64562                65853
Lubrhifint                         64967     2678    51974      2142    66949              70297      6600    71703     6600    73137      4500    74599         0
Pieces Engina                      51610       101    2828        61   101654             106737             106872             131049             113270
Piece. VEhices.                   149327    36090   119452    28872    °0720    11335    84756        9000    86452              86181             69944
Pieces Mach;nee-Outile              1565     1737      1252     1390     2878       120     3021               3082               3144               3206
Fourniture  Atoliers                6740        8      8392        6      928        30     9679               9873              10070              10272
Pieces Pour ausc                    7830               6264        0      4789              5029               5129               5232               5385
Lot. de Bord                        6510     2608      5208     2064     2892       452     3037               3097               319               3222
Pn.u_tiquo.                        172S3      488    13826       390    73276      5858    76939              78478              80048              61649
Batterr;ie                         10659       29      8527       23      9961      195    10489              10668              10882              11099
Reparstions engine                  6175       187     4940      1SO      5272             583                5646               5759               5874
Repsration. ohiculeS               29598    11794    23676      94SI     35870     9590    37864      4000    38417              39186              39909
FeurnIturer  Motors               102242     4548    81794      3638    87046        20    91398         0    93228              95090              96992
Acquisition Voituree                                      0        0         0                 0                  0                  0                  0
Acquisition Outillege              16847     2612    123S8    2090    12664          21    13297      7000    13563              13834              14111
Entretien Inst llation             24314      1853    19451     1482    1l688      3276    12272         0    12518              1276               13024
Entretien Mater,el de Bureau        7538     6785      6030     5428      7373     2857     7741    10000      7896               8054               8215
March. OPPcR                      39860              318880        0   140532             147559             1S0510             183520             156590
Remboureoent Factures               7120               5696        0    21038              22090              22832              22983              23442
Fourniture. Bureaux                28571    10289    22887      8281    48900      9123    46095      8750    47016              47957              48916
Etude. lnforst;que.                 3497               2798        0     5443               8716               S630               5946               8065
Eitreti en l_obilier               12736     3067    10189      2454     8802      2W01     9242    15000      9427               9615               9808
Location IA 1bi liers               1496               1198        0      7530     7530     7907      8900     8085               8226               8390                                     00
Charges Locetivee                  1382        168    11061       185     8766     8766     9204      9300     9386               9576               9766                                      12
Autroe  Charce Dvorse             356897     7224    29518      8779    52237      3722    54849      9        6948              57065              58206
Por_sn ento  se                   207348      1516   165876     121    138306    11000   145221          0   148126             151088             154110
Persenente as"                     33101              2681         0    47844              50026              51026              52047              53088
Rappel Selirse  Ba s                3504               2803        0      4064              4268               435                4440               4529
Rappel Selairas Sae                  223                178        0       821               862                679                897                915
Temporal;ee Entreotin Routler      28110              224d8        0    44174       228    46383              47311              48267              49222
Teepora iree ONce                                         0        0       26                278                284                290                298
TemporsIre. 8ft,rrg- Pluie         23782              16986        0     l 9587            2054S              20958              21376              21803
Temporeioe Coeptage Routi;r          53                 466        0       998              1043               1069               1091               1112
Rappel Temporiree Routeor           2315               U182        0      3326              34V3               3563               3634               3707
Rappel Tampoersre  Baca             1070                856        0        94                96                100                102                104
O.C.S.S.                           5672               45380        0    8489               B7634              s8786              59962              61161
lndr  i tee                        45654     7008    36525      Sb66     92g6       120     9718               9913              10111              10313
Mission court, duree                                      0        0      4040      610     4242      8C00     4327               4414               4602
Miseion lonceo dure 0                                             0      5852       78     6145      2000     6268               6393               8521
Indenit  toroateur.                                       0        0     18O       110      1207               1231               1256               1261
lnde.. ito  Layer                                         0        0      300                315                321                328               334
Prime  de fonction    8aJ                                 0        0    29574       876    31053              31674              32307              32953
I.F.P.P.                           10975               8780        0     9960              10458              10667              10881              11098
Frei& Tenu deo Coeptee               124                 99        0      314        59      330                337                343                350
IL/FAC                             70527              56422        0    10512              11038              11258              21484              11713
JERlB/FAC                          93169              74536        0    10600              11340              11567              11798              12034
8ien et Seor;ce. Congoo_e          24962              19970        0        72                76                 77                 79                 80
Rparostion.                        41205              32964        0       151               159                162                165                168
Cal.. d ven.e                                             0        0    20701              21736              22171              22614              23067
Aide. at Secoure Divoer             2732      S84      2168      467      1705      648     1790               1826               1863               1900
Assurances                          1604      413      1283      330     6581       210     6910               7048               7189               7333
Freis de Reception                  1572     1215      1256      972     2048        83     2151               2194               2238               2282         0                       t
0        0                           0                  0                  0                  0
Ho's Prr.ge Entr.t, Routi bJ  116782         4771    93426      3817    53720       647    i6406              57635              5e8s8              59859
Diners        cJ                   42712    38658    34170    30928               33000        0    15000         0    151000        0                  0                                  C 
TOTAL              2210584   182516  1768451   146013  1873027   150019 1756678.   144550 1791811.    65600  1827648    34500  1864201              0                        0{T
CASH FLOW               -S64              -451             111973             385322            452168             620352             7P7799                                     L
Ao"t,..tnt. de Binb Per..,"                          -32000            -32000             -32000             -32000             -32000             -32000
Pr,, sen Pour R.nouv,.Iolnt                         -360000           -360000            -360000            -360000            -360000           -360000
Re.Stet Not                -564           -392481            -250027              -6678              60188            226382             395799
Part annual finance par MTPAT "ur 145 oi ll ;one de FCFA                                            802C0              28750              31100              34800
Cueul Part ennujl finne- par W4PAT  ur 145 sillion. de FCFA                                         50200              789S0             llOo=O             144550
aJ includ undt-nfled(270.7l)
bJ Operation Jaguar
e_  9udget KTPAT 1989  Including 112,261 *262 un;dentif6ed
due to ineuffilcint analytical accounting .ystes
cJ budget MTPAT 1990, Ineludi.6ng ronea  of fied easete
/ Budget KITPAT 1988: Including Chalet de Mobay,, Fete dJo
Mli aeon. et Fete du Ier Deceebre



- 83 -                          ANNEX 6-15
Page 5 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Collection of Tax ("Vignette") on Vehicles
Collections of Bangui Tax Office - Year 1989
Number of
Number    vehicles
Amount    tax        taxed           Collection
Categories           CFCA'1    sold       (estimate)      Rate2/
A (less than 4 HP)  15.000        236     1.000           23,60 %
B (4 to 7 HP)        20.000    1.675      1.800           93,10 %
C (8 to 10 HP)       40.000    1.331      1.600           83,20 %
D (11 to 12 HP)      50.000      492        800           61,40 %
E (13 to 15 HP)      60.000      143        300           47,70 %
F (16 HP and over)  75.000       496        800           62,00 %
1/   1989 Revenues were about millions of CFAF 160.78 whereas 1988
Revenues amounted to about millions of CFAF 155.3
2/   The collection rate for the light vehicles is higher than that for
heavy vehicles.
AFlIN
March 29, 1990



F
MAP SECTION
k 



h                                                                                                                                             - N         b        -
IBRD 180959
NIGER                                                                                                                                                                       2; -  _  CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
.-,   ,._.s,,  .                       '                                    ;'  A F RIt C A                                                          . 7f  .              REPUBLIQUE CENrRAFRICAINE
"<'-        HA C.    SUDAN                                                                                                        TRANSPORTATION AND POPULATION DENSIT'
Ao  CTH A C   z  'l.  >               S             t8 [RANSPORT Er DENSITE DE POPULA TION
I G E RIA                                                                                    0.otOENSITY IN AjITAN1S PER SO  '4
L-    \                                                                                                                                                           LESS Th AN 10/ MOItS  if F. 0
/,!NEAn  (_;  VTHE                                                                                A  AGa N D  GA# A   M/NGU/   N~    t    )   4UZsN
ENTRAL /                                                                                                                                            POPULATION U-RBINE 3/1-550
CAMEFOOO  EAFRICAN   REPUBLIC                                  _ __ __ _0 -u OONES lOF 1 /5
toSnW                                                                                                                                                                                  - PEPESRP0ySoREvESutRrNNmX- I r^~lx5
CAMEROON                                                                                                     s>H.0 fTEC + -- IOEE5-''' rawSrasn
Of'lg                                                                                                                                                                                         00,0175S  ?   00F er   _ -     _
-. OR  AOSES   -I A
CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                       % T_ =
H  D  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDMIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R0!ASMERMOAE
AMEROON                                           o0so
-.-.   *  S  U   D  A   N
HA U TE
oug, ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~      ~         iu '* \
Y*I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
( Al/edo! "'R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AI  
10                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOURCE, WAED ON GENERAL POPULATION CENSUS OF 1975.
PLE'S   REP.  0       50        Too      ISO       200       250      300                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOURCE, BASEES $UR £0 RECENSEMtENT GENERAL DE LA POP'/AAVl7 DE01975.
CAMEROON                 '      "     OF  THE   /O~-                                                                 K0000,0, p1L0y70.00 0561Ef ,0vn4ERS0 C,1sneo
3 0                     too            IS0             200                 oA 00,07.008, *d00800111F0.0C~rRs ,/001
MILES
APRIL



NIGER           . C d                                                                                                /                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
-, ,,--s_.                    2                             t' A F R I C A   9                                                               REPTU8LIQUE CEWRAFRCAINE
8  C H A D  t.  S U D A N  t   t   V                      ,                 \'        HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROG                       - 1 98S
N-GERIa  tf' (<  <    .-(t  !  t  ,-'*  >  2  o4\3+~/          PROGRAMME D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER - 198'
N I G E R I A                                                    0                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCLUDING LOCAL AND FOREIGN FINANCED
NIGRRIA                         EH'*N            -                        ,,/OT                                    -                             < ! --\- Sellobtsc S $? X MAINTENANCE BRIGADES
-L    ,-..~~~~~~~.--'~~~~'I  \RTIOOC 1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~r'                         EZI ~~~~$ERS44401(E1         UNI 4350K,T)
\  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ['kJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIa(1OOK-I                                               UN2 (350K.~I
.t-w /./               r t RAi. /                                                                                                                 FAC,GLZ(UEIG) I 1400}-- t  UPI (950jX)
AFRICAN REPUBLIC-
2 CAMEROON                                                            L.xN                                                                          KfW(AROP)(630K.)     UPr2(975KE
W  ~  ~ ~ ~ ' -oOu1 ~    'N                  k. .'                             3R --                                                                  OTTER4 l  ,A, HAE' ,, _  _   --  EHOTaL
\,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,g L                           E< \' 
'IEOUORIAL('.     .3                                                                                                                               OTE °OR j~OE PEPL'SREroS 
T}  I'E                          'UGANosDA                                        20     2s      0
CONGO                                                                                                                                   RECET
CAMER     OO N       (,/ d! OFTEC sbo2                                                      iowTw                     'f^s'tr~s aE t<
Mi   !soto..                                                                                 s          20œ eoaeweitfadf"f
~~~~,4                          41~~~~~~~~~~
UUERATI           Bodo                                                   VE~~~~~~~~~~~~~o1AMRTTTTTHAWAIAEE
CAMEROON IOF TE C-                                                                     o ,f TfTHOTR  i                                                          fv ,, a  fa
_-                                                                                                                                  -i**  S U  D A0   N DE R
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
20'                              2llt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ZAIRE~~~~E



_                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRRn 222
IGER                                                                                                                     2   912'2-d,_* 249                              CENTRALAFRICANIREPUBLIC
o % = / A F R I C A \ < \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
9%  C H A D   t         ~~~S U D A N           J                                                                       T  l                   TSP PRIORITY ROAD NETORK
G E R fI A   ),,t\9z(,,                                                                                                               -        'P5T PROGRMM  D'ENTRETIEN DU
-C   , V  -\                                              <       4           10,                                 S1>                               RESEAU ROUIIER PRIORITAIRE
,.'wi           %     ;rs                 / -         <       _4                     \9                          ,~                                                      LOT I 168 km..            L   OT  1761 1,m I
V                                                                                                                                                              L         \Jt<              OT 21419 k..)  LOT 5 (558 tm ,)
d/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOT 3 (41                                                                                                                            LO    'I-|6  , (856 k-  'w 
<_~~~~~A                          >Goa                                                                                                     N-RI
P. R.>2 _-\S_ 
'\ ~    ~      '*-t i             PEPEAWEP                     I
CAMROO            s0 / OfTHECOO s'JTHE,0  2,01t                                                                                                                                           _ M2-s1@4  1
GU ~     ~      i   /AN                                                          'DloAotE                                                                +    1o  b*fUe~m_                         w
,^CONGOg20*222<                                                                                                                                                         fsAPI   9



