Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
Report No. 11845
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
MAY 3, 1993
Resident Mission in Bangladesh
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     Taka (Tk)
Taka 1                  -     Paisa 100
Taka 1                  =     US$ 0.0556k/
Taka 1                  -     US$ 0.02792/
US$1                    =     Tk 18.00
US$l                    =     Tk 35.792
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)        -     0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)             =     39.37 inches (in)
1 kilovolt (kV)         -     1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)         -     1,000 kilowatts (kW) - 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  -      1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRE      -    Area Coverage Rural Electrification
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BPDB      -    Bangladesh Power Development Board
BST       -    Bulk Supply Tariff
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
DCA       -    Development Credit Agreement
EIRR      -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GC        -    Gilbert Commonwealth
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDC       -    Interest During Construction
KFAED     -    Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LRMC      -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MEMR      -    Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources
NRECA     -    National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association
PA        -    Project Agreement
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PBS       -    Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Cooperative)
RE        -    Rural Electrification
REB       -    Rural Electrification Board
SAC       -    Supplemental Assistance Credit
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SFD       -    Saudi Fund for Development
UOLT      -    Uniform Onlending Terms
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WTP       -    Willingness to Pay
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
l/Conversion rate at appraisal
2/Current conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 3, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Rural Electrification Project
(Credit 1262-BD and Credit 1504-3-BD)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Rural
Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD and Credit 1504-3-BD)" prepared by the
Bangladesh Resident Mission of the Asia Regional Office, with the Borrower
providing Part II.
This is the first of three rural electrification credits to Bangladesh.
The project was successful in meeting its physical investment goals, although it
could not deliver electricity to all the ultimate beneficiaries, primarily
because of lack of cooperation from the national power enterprise (BPDB). This
problem and many other problems that arose during the implementation of this
project were resolved during implementation of the follow-up projects.
The aggregate economic rate of return is acceptable.  However, the
price of bulk electricity is below its supply cost and indirect development
benefits are not effectively captured.   Project design failed to include a
monitoring system that could have helped refine the estimate of these benefits.
On balance, the project is rated as satisfactory, its institutional impact as
substantial, and its sustainability as uncertain.
The goal of financial viability for the rural electricity cooperatives
that will operate the program has not been met, even with subsidized interest
loans and bulk power tariffs, thereby casting doubts on the longer term project
sustainability. The older PBSs are, however, financially viable.
The PCR is informative. An audit is underway.
Attachmentnt                                                   C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
Itheir officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.



-I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface          .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
Evaluation Summary    ..ii
PART I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .    1
1.     Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
2.     Background   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
3.     Project Objectives and Description .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Objectives   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Description ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
= Project Costs and Financing Plan .  . . . . . . . . . . .    3
4.  Project Design and Organization ... . . .  ..                                        3
-    Project Concept . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
-      Project Design   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
-      Project Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
-      Project Design Issues  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
5.     Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
-      Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up . . . . . . . .    4
-  Implementation Schedule.                                                       5
- Procurement.                                                                    5
- Project Costs.                                                                  6
- Disbursements.                                                                  6
- Credit Allocation.                                                              6
-      Risk Identification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
6.     Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
-      Project Objectives   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
-      Physical Results   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
-    Project Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
-      REB Financial Operations   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
-      PBS Operations   .g...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
-      Economic Analysis  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
-      Environment  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    11
7. Project Sustainability .11
8.     IDA Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents Cont'd.
Page No.
9. Borrower Performance  . .           ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .  13
10. Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          13
11. Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          13
12. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          13
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .          14
A. Analysis of Key Issues  ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
B. Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          15
C. Bank Officials  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
D. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance  . . . . . . . .          16
E. Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship between the
Bank and the Borrower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         17
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  18
1. Related IDA Credits .18
2. Project Timetable .19
3. Credit Disbursements .20
4. Project Implementation .21
5.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
A.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
A. Direct Benefits .24
7. Status of Covenants .25
8. Use of Bank Resources .27
A. Staff Inputs .27
B. Missions .28
ANNEXES
I.  PBSs Areas and Upazilas in the Project .29
II.  Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified  . . . . .          30
III.  Procurement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          31
IV.  Detailed Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          32
V.  Utilization of Materials Procured . . . . . . . . . . . .          34
VI.  Project Implementation  ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
VII.  Income Statements ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
VIII.  Performance Indicators of PBS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          39



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural
Electrification Project in Bangladesh, for which Cr. 1262-BD in the amount of
SDR 36.0 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 15, 1982. A
Supplemental Assistance Credit (Cr. 1504-3-BD) for the project in the amount of
SDR 7.6 million (US$ 8 million equivalent) was also approved on June 19, 1984.
Cr. 1504-3-BD closed as per schedule on June 30, 1986. It was fully disbursed,
and the last disbursement was on December 31, 1986. Cr. 1262-BD was closed on
June 30, 1990, one year behind schedule. Final disbursement was made on
October 31, 1990, after cancellation of the undisbursed balance of
SDR 0.07 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Bangladesh Resident Mission of
the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in May 1990 during IDA's final
supervision mission for the project and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondences between IDA and the Borrower, progress reports of the
Borrower and internal IDA memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        In 1978 the Rural Electrification Board (REB) developed a
comprehensive rural electrification (RE) master plan to achieve country-wide
rural electrification by the year 2000. The Rural Electrification Project
(Cr. 1262-BD for US$ 40.0 million) was IDA's first lending in support of the
plan. An additional US$ 8.0 million was provided to the project through a
Supplemental Assistance Credit (Cr. 1504-3-BD). Since then, IDA has provided
two more Credits for RE in Bangladesh. REB was the executing agency for the
project. The Palli Bidyut Samities (PBSs) or Rural Electrification
Cooperatives formed under the project have been its ultimate beneficiaries.
Objectives
2.        The project achieved its principal objective of expanding electricity
supply in the rural areas (para 6.01). Seven new consumer owned cooperatives
were formed in the project areas. However, the project's financial objectives
were not achieved (para. 6.05).
Implementation Experience
3.        Despite one year delay, overall project implementation was
satisfactory. Project implementation was delayed because of problems with:
(a) procurement (para. 5.06); (b) transfer of lines by the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB) to the Project PBSs (para. 5.03); and (c) energization
of the PBS sub-stations (para. 5.03).
Results
4.        The physical targets were achieved substantially as planned.  All 14
substations have been installed, 5,752 km of lines constructed, 371 km of lines
rehabilitated, and 80,505 consumers connected (para. 6.02). However, the
financial performance of REB and the Project PBSs has not been satisfactory.
REB could not meet the financial objectives agreed under the project, viz. that
(a) beginning FY86 its annual administrative expenses and interest payments
should not exceed 75? of the aggregate interest and other revenues received
from all sources during that FY; and (b) its internal source of funds in any FY
should cover at least 1.5 times its debt service requirement (para. 6.05).
REB's failure to meet these objectives was mainly due to a mismatch between
REB's deb-servicing to GOB and PBSs' debt-servicing to REB (para. 6.05). The
PBSs could not achieve financial viability mainly because of delays or non-



- iii -
energization of PBS substations, BPDB's refusal to hand over its lines and
consumers in PBS areas to the PBSs, and high system losses (para. 6.10).
Sustainability
5.        While significant benefits were achieved through the project, the RE
program depends on subsidies through: (a) operating subsidy during the first
five years of a PBS's life; (b) a bulk supply tariff which is below the long
run marginal cost; and (c) grants and soft onlending terms on loans to finance
investments (para. 7.01). The operating subsidy is a real demand on GOB's
budget but only supports the PBSs during their infancy. The RE program
provides high economic benefits (para. 7.01), but time for PBSs to achieve
financial viability depend on consumer mix and consumer density.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        The main lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a) IDA should provide adequate local cost financing for all of the
projects which it finances in Bangladesh (para. 4.07);
(b) individual PBSs' projected financial performance should have been
considered in selecting them for inclusion under the project
(para. 4.08);
(c) enforceable covenants should have been incorporated to ensure
transfer of BPDB lines to the PBSs and energization of PBSs'
substations in a timely manner (para. 5.03);
(d) IDA staff should have monitored the project's procurement more
closely to prevent REB from allocating materials to non-project PBSs
(para. 5.06). However, REB gave the assurance that these loaned
materials will be returned from other projects (mainly USAID-financed
projects) for ultimate use in project PBSs at a later date;
(e) the onlending terms for Credit funds should have been established
properly so that there would have been no mismatch between REB's
debt-servicing to GOB and PBSs' debt-servicing to REB (para. 6.05);
and
(f) consultancy for institutional building should be continued over a
sufficiently long period to have permanent impact (para. 11.01).
In addition, to improve PBSs' viability, the following aspects need to be
reviewed: (i) the level of tariffs that can be sustained considering consumers'
willingness to pay; and (ii) whether the size of the PBSs can be increased,
without compromising on operating efficiency (para. 7.03).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
Part I: Project Review from IDA's Perspective
1.    Project Identity
Name                       :    Rural Electrification Project
Credit Numbers             :    1262-BD and 1504-3-BD
RVP Unit                   :   Asia Region
Country                         Bangladesh
Sector                    :    Energy
Sub-sector                      Power
2.    Background
2.01       Although in 1976 over 9OZ of Bangladesh's population lived in rural
areas, and agriculture accounted for 60Z of its gross domestic product and
employed over 75Z of the labor force, less than 31 of the rural population had
access to electricity. At that time, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
embarked on a comprehensive program for rural electrification (RE). To
implement the program, GOB created the Rural Electrification Board (REB) in
1977. Prior to this, the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was
responsible for all generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity.
In 1978 REB developed a comprehensive RE master plan, with assistance of
National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association and Gilbert Commonwealth
(NRECA/GC), financed by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID). The plan envisaged country-wide rural electrification in five phases
by the year 2000, through autonomous member-owned cooperatives called Palli
Bidyut Samities (PBSs).
2.02        Phase 1 of the RE program financed by USAID, Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED) and Asian Development Bank (ADB), was completed in
1986. Phase II was completed in 1990 with financing from IDA (Cr. 1262-BD),
USAID and Finland. Phase III is being implemented with financing from IDA
(Cr. 1633-BD), USAID, Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), Saudi
Fund for Development (SFD), and Finland and is expected to be completed by
1992. Funds are being lined up for implementation of Phase IV of the program,
for which IDA has already approved a Project (Cr. 2129-BD).
2.03       The RE program's main objectives are: (a) replacing costly
alternative energy sources (mainly imported petroleum products) for lighting,
irrigation pumping, by electricity generated to an increasing degree from
domestic natural gas; (b) easing the population pressure on the land by



-2-
creating additional employment opportunities in rural areas by encouraging
multiple cropping and new small and cottage industries through providing more
economical energy for irrigation and motive power; and (c) improving the
quality of life in rural areas and providing infrastructure in hitherto less
developed areas of the country.
2.04       IDA's lending strategy in the power sub-sector has been designed to:
(a) strengthen investment planning to meet forecast demand for electricity at
least cost; (b) improve sectoral institutions' performance; and (c) optimize
the use of available resources through appropriate energy pricing and conser-
vation measures. This strategy is consistent with GOB's strategy as outlined
in its Five-Year Plans. IDA's involvement in the sub-sector started in 1979,
and during 1979-90 it supported seven investments in the sub-sector. IDA
projects mainly focused on electricity distribution, but also included genera-
tion and transmission. The Rural Electrification Project (RE-1) (Cr. 1262-BD,
for US$ 40.0 million), approved by IDA's Board in 1982, was the first IDA-
financed project in support of Bangladesh's RE program and is consistent with
IDA's sectoral lending strategy. An additional US$8.0 million was provided to
the project through a Supplemental Assistance Credit (SAC) (Cr. 1504-BD, for
US$ 30.0 million) and was approved by IDA's Board in 1984 to provide additional
financing for four ongoing IDA-financed projects to ensure that they could be
implemented in a timely manner without the Government having to divert
resources from other high priority projects in its development program. IDA
approved further credits in 1985 and 1990 to support the RE program (Second
Rural Electrification Project (RE-2), Cr. 1633-BD, for US$ 76.3 million and
Third Rural Electrification Project (RE-3), Cr. 2129-BD, for US$ 105.0
million). The second project is about two years behind schedule, while the
third is awaiting Credit effectiveness.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01       Project Objectives:  The project's principal objective was to expand
electricity supply in the rural areas, thereby supporting GOB's overall
objectives for the RE program (para. 2.03). The project also supported
institutional development associated with the creation of cooperatives for
which technical assistance was provided by NRECA under financing by USAID. In
addition, the project contributed to establishing financial performance targets
for REB and the PBSs which were adopted for the overall RE program.
3.02       Project Description:  The project provided for: (a) installation of
new electricity distribution networks in seven selected areas;
(b) rehabilitation of limited existing distribution systems operated by BPDB
and their integration into the new systems in the above areas; and (c) creation
of seven new member-owned PBSs to operate the electricity distribution system
in those areas. The PBSs and areas covered are listed in Annex I. The
project's construction goals included about 1,720 miles of three-phase and
single-phase primary line, about 1,680 miles of secondary line, and 14
substations. In terms of consumer connections, about 88,500 residential and
commercial meters (representing about 185,000 households with about 1.1 million
people), about 1,900 irrigation pumps, and about 660 industrial enterprises
were expected to be connected by December 1988 (the project's original
completion date).



- 3 -
3.03       Project Costs and Financing Plan:  The project's estimated cost at
appraisal was US$ 64.5 million, including duties and taxes and interest during
construction. The estimated cost did not include the cost of foreign
consultants, which was planned to be financed by USAID (para. 11.01). The IDA
Credit of USS 40.0 million was to finance the project's direct foreign exchange
cost, with GOB financing the local costs as a grant. GOB was to onlend the
Credit proceeds to REB at an interest rate of 22 per annum, with a repayment
period of 25 years, after a grace period of five years during which a rate of
interest of 0.75Z was to be applicable but capitalized. Upon completion REB
was to transfer the cost of constructing the distribution networks (loans and
grants) to the PBSs as loans on the same terms as the onlending from GOB to
REB, except that a 3Z interest rate was to be charged after the grace period.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01       Project Concept:  The project is based on the concept of "Area
Coverage Rural Electrification" (ACRE) and is part of Phase II of the ACRE
program. It involves a basic distribution design system that caters for a
maximum number of potential consumers, up to the relative saturation of an
area. This approach ensures a sound backbone system that could sustain a rapid
increase in the density of domestic and productive consumer connections. The
immediate model for the approach was rural electrification in the Philippines
where, as in Bangladesh, USAID, using technical assistance from NRECA, took the
lead in financing the establishment of rural distribution systems. The
Philippines model has been modified to suit local circumstances, particularly
in careful institution building.
4.02       REB, with NRECA's assistance, carried out feasibility studies in 105
thanas (administrative areas--now called upazilas), of which-88 were identified
to have high potential, according to a rating system that placed emphasis on
existing infrastructure, surplus high-voltage power supply, and potential
number of consumers. The criteria employed by REB for selection of areas for
RE are shown in Annex II. These 88 thanas were selected for electrification
under Phase II of the ACRE program and divided into 19 PBS areas, of which
eight were proposed for financing by KFAED, four by USAID and the remaining
seven by IDA.
4.03       Project Design:  The system designed for the project comprises of
11 kV three-phase primary circuits, with three-phase and single-phase branch
circuits. Distribution transformers were generally to be single-phase units
serving single-phase 230 volt secondary circuits. Existing BPDB distribution
lines and consumers within the PBS areas were to be taken over by the PBSs and
rehabilitated. The design standards introduced by REB significantly improved
those followed by BPDB in terms of cost and reliability. The 33/11 kV
substations constructed under the project were to be the source of power to the
PBSs' networks. These substations were to be energized by BPDB from its grid
substations.
4.04       Project Organization : REB was responsible for organizing the
prospective consumers into PBSs, controlling and assisting the PBSs through
prescribing standards for their technical and administrative work, approving
their tariffs, and taking measures for their development. REB was also
responsible for preparing and implementing the project and handing over the



- 4 -
system to the PBSs for operation and management. The PBSs' main responsi-
bilities started after the project was completed and the systems handed over to
them. The PBSs purchase electricity from the BPDB grid at 33 kV; undertake
consumer connections; operate and maintain transmission and distribution
facilities; undertake meter-reading, billing and collection; fix tariffs,
subject to REB's approval; and provide technical and financial assistance to
electricity consumers for wiring their premises and for acquiring and
installing electrical appliances. It was envisaged that the PBSs formed under
the project would be subject to rigorous control and supervision by REB over a
long period. Given that REB had the experience and technical know-how,
developed through the satisfactory implementation of the previous USAID-funded
RE project, the project's implementation design was considered appropriate.
4.05       REB, as the main executing agency, was responsible for procurement
of materials and construction of new and rehabilitation of existing distri-
bution systems. With NRECA/GC's assistance, REB was also responsible for
engineering design and layout of the backbone distribution system. Specialized
local consultants and contractors, whose staff were trained intensively by REB
and NRECA/GC, carried out detailed system design, layout of the village
distribution systems and actual construction.
4.06       Project Design Issues:  While the project design was largely
satisfactory, greater attention should have been given to local cost financing
and selection of the PBSs.
4.07       The IDA Credit did not provide for the financing of local costs.
The Credit proceeds were to be used only to finance the project's foreign
exchange cost, with GOB providing the local cost as grant. The appraisal team
over-estimated GOB's ability to finance the local cost. As a result, to cover
part of the project's local cost, supplementary financing had to be provided
subsequently by IDA through the SAC in 1984, and the DCA for Cr. 1262-BD had to
be amended. Based on lessons learnt in implementing the project, subsequent
Credits provided by IDA to finance the RE program did include local cost
financing.
4.08       The criteria used by REB to select PBS areas put emphasized existing
infrastructure, availability of power supply and roads, and potential number of
consumers (Annex II) and did not consider financial projections of individual
PBSs. During appraisal financial projections were made for an average PBS only
and did not assess individual PBSs' future financial performance. Since PBSs
have different characteristics the selection criteria should have included
financial projections for candidate PBSs, and only those areas showing good
prospects for financial viability should have been selected (para. 6.08).
5.    Project Implementation
5.01       Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up:  Cr. 1262-BD was signed
on June 30, 1982 and declared effective on November 30, 1982. The Government's
delay in approving the Project Proforma delayed the Credit's effectiveness.
Cr. 1504-3-BD was signed on July 25, 1984 and declared effective on October 25,
1984, as scheduled.



-5-
5.02       Implementation Schedule:  Overall, the project's implementation was
satisfactory. The project was originally expected to be completed by
December 31, 1988, but due to delays in procurement, transfer of lines by BPDB
to the PBSs, and energization of the PBS sub-stations, project completion was
delayed by about one year.
5.03       The transfer of lines and the energization of substations are
associated with major issues for the implementation of the RE program which
were not anticipated during appraisal. In the planning of PBS distribution
networks, REB assumes that existing BPDB 11 kV lines and customers within PBS
areas will be handed over to the PBSs. Although BPDB has handed over 1,036 km
of lines, due to resistance from the labor unions there is still a backlog of
about 1,167 km (311 km in Project PBS areas). In addition, several project
villages, already equipped with distribution networks, cannot be energized
because the BPDB lines, which are part of the supply system, have not been
transferred. Further, two substations (Banaripara and Sonargaon) constructed
under the project have not yet been energized as BPDB is unable or has refused
to provide power to them.
5.04       The resistance within BPDB to handing over lines could not have been
anticipated during appraisal because the RE program was a priority program for
GOB and was then backed by BPDB. Therefore, no specific covenants to address
this issue were included in the Legal Documents. A provision was included in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for GOB to improve coordination and
consultation procedures among REB, BPDB and other entities benefitting from
rural electrification, but this produced little results. These problems
underline the need for effective coordination between and full commitment by
the key entities involved in project implementation. This issue becomes
critical when project success depends on another entity not involved in actual
project implementation and not benefitting directly from the project. Under
RE-3, the problem of BPDB line transfer to the PBSs has been tackled by making
transfer of the backlog lines conditions of Board presentation and Credit
effectiveness. To address the coordination problem, as a condition for
negotiations of RE-3, a joint Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
(MEMR)/REB/BPDB engineering and planning group was created and is operational.
But the problems are still far from being resolved as seven completed
substations, financed by IDA and USAID, have not yet been energized and over
1,000 km of lines await transfer from BPDB to the PBSs.
5.05       Procurement:  During appraisal it was anticipated that procurement
under the project would be carried out in four tranches, with contracts for the
first tranche being awarded in February 1983. REB actually invited bids in
five tranches, with contracts for the first tranche being awarded in June 1983,
and some materials under the last tranche being received as late as June 1990.
As a result, all materials procured under the project have not yet been
installed. The project's procurement schedule and the materials procured
(actual vs appraisal) are shown in Annexes III and IV.
5.06       Compared to other organizations in Bangladesh, REB's procurement
performance under the project has been reasonably satisfactory. However,
project implementation was affected by three procurement problems. First, at
the time of appraisal, it was planned that IDA would finance only the project's
foreign exchange cost. Accordingly, the Project Agreement (PA) only provides



-6-
for procurement on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB).
Subsequently, under the SAC IDA also agreed to finance part of the project's
local cost, but the procurement procedure was not amended to include local
competitive bidding. This had to be done subsequently through amendment of the
PA in October 1985, about 15 months after the approval of SAC. This
procurement issue was overlooked during negotiations for the SAC. Second, in
September 1988 GOB imposed restrictions on the import of single-phase meters,
and thus REB could not procure 30,000 single phase meters under the project,
for which IDA had already approved the award of contract to the lowest
evaluated bidder on February 27, 1988. By the time GOB waived its ban on
imports of single phase meters (as a condition of negotiations for RE-3), the
validity of the bid had expired, the selected bidder did not agree to supply
meters at the same price and the bid had to be canceled. GOB, rather than REB,
was responsible for this problem. Third, REB has procured materials well in
excess of the quantities estimated in the SAR (see Annex IV). While some of
these excess materials have been used or will be used in the Project PBSs,
others have been diverted to PBSs not included in the Project description
(Annex V). These excess materials could be procured because of availability of
additional funds due to the low bid prices received by REB by following ICB
procedure for major procurement, appreciation of SDR against US$, and approval
of SAC. Although these excess materials are still being used to support the RE
program, REB should not have used the IDA-financed materials outside the
Project PBSs without IDA's prior approval. In view of the diverse types and
large quantities of equipment involved and the inadequacy of REB's quarterly
progress reports, IDA staff failed to notice this issue during supervision. It
must be recognized, however, that the transfer of a certain quantity of
materials between projects may help in the timely completion of the RE projects
provided it is properly monitored and recorded.
5.07       Project Costs:  The final cost is about US$ 67.2 million as shown in
Table 5A in Part III and detailed in Annex IV. The increase in project cost of
about 4.2Z is due to procurement of materials well in excess of that estimated
during appraisal and utilization of some of those excess materials in non-
Project PBSs (para. 5.06). If excess materials had not been procured, the
project cost would have been well below the appraisal estimate.
5.08       Disbursements:  The estimated and actual disbursements under the
Credits are shown in Table 3 in Part III. Cr. 1504-3-BD was fully disbursed as
per schedule. The Closing Date of Cr. 1262-BD, originally June 30, 1989, was
extended once to June 30, 1990, and a grace period of three months was given
for submission of withdrawal applications against eligible expenditures. Final
disbursement under Cr. 1262-BD was made on October 31, 1990, and the
outstanding balance of SDR 0.07 million was canceled. Due to appreciation of
SDR against US$, disbursements, in terms of US$, have been 23.5? and 11? higher
than estimated for Cr. 1262-BD and Cr. 1504-3-BD, respectively.
5.09       Credit Allocation:  The original and revised allocations and actual
disbursements for Crs. 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD are shown in Table 5B, Part III.
The original allocations for Cr. 1262-BD were revised when the SAC was
approved. They (and the allocations for Cr. 1504-3-BD) were further revised in
October 1985 in response to GOB's request to provide financing of local costs
associated with the installation of lines and sub-stations, civil works and
local consultancies (para. 4.07).



- 7 -
5.10       Risk Identification:  The problems which actually impeded project
implementation were not anticipated at the time of appraisal. One possible
source of delay identified at appraisal was slower build-up of skilled line
construction crew capacity than anticipated. However, an intensive lineman
training program conducted by REB/NRECA/GC developed the necessary capacity.
The following risks, which adversely affected project implementation, were not
anticipated: (a) GOB's inability to finance the project's full local cost
(para. 4.07); and (b) BPDB's inability/reluctance to transfer its lines to the
PBSs and energize the substations on time (para. 5.03).
6.    Project Results
6.01       Project Objectives:  Overall, the project was successful in meeting
its principal objective of expanding electricity supply in the rural areas.
Through the project, new electricity distribution networks were installed,
existing networks rehabilitated in the project areas and new consumer owned
cooperatives created. However, REB failed to comply with the financial
covenants (para. 6.04), and the Project PBSs are unlikely to achieve financial
viability within the time frame set at appraisal.
6.02       Physical Results:  The project's physical targets were achieved
substantially as planned. Details are shown in Table 6, Part III and in
Annex VI. All 14 substations have been constructed, and 5,752 km of lines have
been constructed compared to 4,451 km planned at appraisal. However, line
rehabilitation and consumer connections have not been up to expectations.
Compared to appraisal estimates of 2,005 km of lines rehabilitation and 91,056
consumer connections, only 371 km of lines have been rehabilitated and 80,505
consumers connected. Delays and resistance by BPDB in providing power to PBSs'
substations and handing over lines and consumers have delayed connections to
consumers and were the main reasons why the appraisal targets could not be met
(para. 5.03).
6.03       Project Impact:  Since the Project PBSs have not yet completed five
years of commercial operations, a detailed project impact study has not been
carried out. Therefore, the project's actual impact cannot be quantified.
However, REB and consultants have assessed the RE program's impact, considering
the 13 PBSs energized since 1980. The impact studies should be interpreted
cautiously since the evaluations have been partial and not fully satisfactory.
The various studies indicate that the program has contributed to economic and
social development in several ways. It has provided employment to the local
labor force for erecting the distribution works and through the economic
activities set in motion as a result the program's backward and forward
linkages. In 1991 USAID plans to carry out a detailed assessment of the
program's overall development impact. Further, the extension of electricity
supply to rural households had a positive impact on women but mainly in the
higher income groups. Female advisors have been officially made a part of the
PBS Boards and serve as channels for the expression of women's demands in the
PBS areas. In addition, some staff positions, especially those related to
revenue, have been reserved for women. In the Project PBSs 105 women have been
directly employed in those positions. At the community level, electrification
of public facilities such as dispensaries, schools, offices and places of



- 8 -
worship has resulted in better services to the residents and in particular to
women attending these facilities.
6.04       REB Financial Operations:  The SAR identified two factors to measure
the efficiency of REB's performance. The first was its ability to realize
revenues to cover its administrative expenses and its interest expense and
provide a reasonable margin of net income. The second was its ability to
generate sufficient sources of funds, including PBS loan repayments, to meet
its debt service requirement. Accordingly, it was agreed that REB would ensure
that beginning in FY86, its annual administrative expenses and interest
payments would not exceed a maximum of 75Z of the aggregate interest and other
revenues received from all sources during the year and its internal sources of
funds, including PBS loan repayments, would cover at least 1.5 times the debt
service requirement.
6.05       REB's financial statements including appraisal estimates and actual
results (FY90 - provisional) for FYs 82-90 are shown in Annex VII. The results
indicate non-compliance with both the revenue covenants. Analysis reveals that
the "Uniform Onlending Terms (UOLT)" (consistent with those agreed with IDA--
para.3.03) have, in a major way, led to non-compliance with the covenants and
to a gradual weakening of REB's liquidity. In accordance with the UOLT, given
the two to three year time lag between the signature of REB loans with GOB and
the date of a PBS's registration when REB start to change interest on loans to
PBSs, the 5-year grace period on each GOB loan to REB expires before the end of
the 5-year grace period on the corresponding loan to a PBS, which starts from
the date of registration. This tandem relationship along with REB's improper
accounting practice on treatment of interest during construction (IDC) has had
adverse impacts on REB's finances. Firstly, REB's accounts have not recorded
any accrued revenue owing to IDC from PBSs under construction. As such REB's
income as reflected in its books of accounts has been lower than envisaged.
Secondly, REB has to service its debt to GOB several years before the
corresponding PBSs start repaying the funds onlent by REB. And, finally,
because of reasons explained below (para. 6.06) PBSs have not repaid their debt
appropriately to REB nor has REB recorded these as accrued income. The above
factors have been primarily responsible for the serious deterioration of REB
finances and overall cash flow position. As a result REB has not been able to
comply with either of the revenue covenants. However, there is an improvement
trend in this regard.
6.06       Consultants (Coopers & Lybrand), financed by USAID, identified this
problem and, under RE-3, the grace period of GOB's onlending of the Credit's
proceeds has been increased from five to eight years. GOB is expected to ask
IDA to change the onlending terms of the RE-1 and RE-2 projects to make them
consistent with RE-3. Other reasons contributing to REB's failure to meet the
financial objectives were as follows. First, the PBSs have defaulted in
meeting their debt service obligations to REB. One of the factors contributing
to this default was REB's depreciation policy. Each PBS had to maintain a
depreciation fund in a bank account, and the full amount of its annual
depreciation charge was deposited into the account. Compliance with this
policy took precedence over debt service payments to REB. Second, there were
inordinate delays in the scheme closing process. In many cases, capital
investments that have been completed and handed over to the PBSs have remained
in REB's accounts as current assets for several years, depriving REB of



-9-
interest revenues which would have been accrued. Third, liabilities between
GOB and REB and between REB and PBSs have not been reconciled in a timely
manner. To address the first problem, in 1989 REB suspended the depreciation
fund and introduced a replacement reserve fund limited to a maximum of 5Z of
gross fixed assets. To address the second and third problems, REB is
implementing measures to record in its accounts the schemes transferred to the
PBSs, reconcile the debt between GOB and REB and between REB and PBSs, and
reconcile the interest during construction in a timely manner. These measures
have already started to improve REB's financial position.
6.07       PBS Operations:  The following key aspects of PBS operations have
been analyzec: overall financial viability, tariffs and other performance
indicators (accounts receivable and payable, system losses, and load and power
factor).
6.08       A PBS's financial viability depends on its ability to earn revenues
sufficient to cover the cost of electricity purchases, its administrative
expenses, depreciation, and interest expenses on borrowing after not more than
five years of operation. Accordingly, it was agreed that: (a) GOB would
provide operating subsidies to cover a PBS's operating losses, if any, during
its first five years of operation; and (b) the PBSs would set their retail
tariffs at levels sufficient to (i) cover, after not more than five years of
operation, their power purchases, administrative expenses, depreciation, and
interest expenses; and (ii) generate, after not more than six years, a surplus
cash flow equal to not less than 20Z of their capital expenditure. As of June
30, 1990, none of the PBSs under the project had completed five years of
commercial operations. However, as can be seen from Annex VIII (Performance
Indicators of PBSs), all the Project PBSs are operating with losses. Except
for the Narsingdi and Madaripur PBSs, the other Project PBSs are unlikely to
achieve financial viability within the next few years. The main reasons behind
the PBSs' inability to achieve financial viability are delays or non-
energization of their sub-stations, BPDB's refusal to hand over its lines and
consumers in PBS areas to the PBSs, and high system losses. Further, PBSs'
ability to achieve financial viability quickly depends largely on its consumer
mix (industrial vs residential) and consumer density.
6.09        Under the project, GOB agreed to carry out by December 31, 1984 a
study of the bulk and retail tariffs of all supply authorities in the power
sector, which would be based on LRMC, and to implement by July 1, 1985 a new
tariff structure in BPDB and PBSs, based on the recommendations of the study.
It was further agreed that, pending the completion of the Tariff Study, the
PBSs would set their tariffs at levels sufficient to ensure that their average
revenues per kWh sold would not be less than those of BPDB. Due to delays in
obtainina donor financing, the Tariff Study was finalized only in June 1986.
Based c-; L..' study's results, BPDB has periodically increased its tariffs,
incl-oing B: r, and the PBSs have also adjusted their tariffs accordingly.
Through thes adjustments, the PBSs have maintained their average retail
electricity ates above the average retail rates of BPDB (see Annex VIII). The
BST at the t .me of the project's appraisal was Tk.0.78/kWh. The current BST
rate is Tk. ..41/kWh which is about 55Z of LRMC.
6.10       Other key PBS performance indicators include: (a) accounts
receivP>.Le; (b) accounts payable to BPDB; (c) system losses; (d) load factor;



- 10 -
and (e) power factor. The Project PBSs have maintained their accounts
receivable at a satisfactory level (below two months of average billings).
Accounts payable to BPDB for power purchased have also been kept below the
covenanted level of two months. However, system losses are higher than
projected. During appraisal, a PBS's system losses were not expected to exceed
25? in year 1, 20? in year 2, 15? in year 3, and 10? thereafter. Considering
Bangladesh's prevailing social conditions, these expectations were over-
optimistic. Subsequent studies carried out by NRECA/GC indicated that, in view
of the size of the PBS distribution network, 142 system loss from the fifth
year in operation should be considered acceptable. As of June 30, 1990, system
losses in the Project PBSs were: Bagerhat 20?, Barisal-II 16?, Chittagong-II
26Z, Madaripur 16?, Meherpur 15?, Narsingdi 18?, and Noakhali 18?. System
losses are higher in those PBSs where comparatively more lines have been
transferred from BPDB. This indicates that those PBSs have inherited the
problem of theft and pilferage so common in BPDB. To address this problem, REB
has entered into Performance Agreements with the PBSs (as a condition for
RE-3's effectiveness). The performance criteria incorporated in the Agreements
include targets for accounts receivable, accounts payable to BPDB, system loss,
load management and power factor management, and allow REB to penalize the PBSs
for poor performance and reward them for good performance. Compared to BPDB's
system losses in distribution, the PBSs losses are substantially lower. The
PBSs have also been able to maintain their accounts receivable and payable at
acceptable levels, in sharp contrast to BPDB. One reason for this better
performance lies in the PBS organizational concept, since the PBSs are member-
owned cooperatives and their managements are accountable to the consumers. The
PBSs' staff salary structures are also independent of GOB's salary structure,
and because trade unions are banned in PBSs, staff may be fired for poor
performance. PBS franchise areas are also kept small and within manageable
limits. The PBSs operate more like private enterprises, and considering their
success, GOB is taking steps to reorganize BPDB so that its distribution
functions will be carried out by smaller zonal organizations. As a first step,
a Dhaka Electric Supply Authority has been formed as a separate entity in
charge of power distribution within the Dhaka area.
6.11       A large part of rural consumption takes place at peak time, which
strains the power supply system. The consultants who carried out the Tariff
Study (para. 6.09) recommended measures, such as load management and peak
reducing tariff structures to reduce demand during the peak hours, but REB/PBSs
have taken no action. Under RE-3, load management measures are now being
enforced. The load factor in the Project PBSs is low because the predominant
load is from domestic consumers. In FY90, the load factor was as follows:
Bagerhat-34.6Z, Barisal-18.7Z, Chittagong-10.2?, Madaripur-25.4?, Meherpur-
29.2?, Narsingdi-25.6Z, and Noakhali-19.0Z. During appraisal it was indicated
that the large share of motive power may decrease the system power factor if
capacitors or high-power-factor motors are not used. The PBSs have been
successful, through compulsory installation of capacitors, in keeping the load
factor at the 33/11 kV substations over 0.90, which is quite satisfactory
(Annex VIII).
6.12       Economic Analysis:  The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) has
been estimated using consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for incremental sales
to quantify benefits. A conservative estimate of WTP was made as follows:
(a) for residential and commercial users it was based on the cost of lighting



- 11 -
using either kerosene wick lamps or pressurized kerosene lamps; and (b) for
industrial and irrigation consumers it was based on the cost of running a
diesel plant using imported high speed diesel oil. For each consumer group a
WTP-based benefits estimate was prepared as follows. First, to estimate
benefits for those electricity sales which would represent a substitution of
electricity for an alternative fuel, WTP was measured as indicated in (a) and
(b) above. Second, the incremental electricity sales which have occurred or
are forecast to occur over the project's economic life as a response to the
lower price of electricity vis-a-vis its substitutes and as a response to the
availability of electricity supply were valued assuming a linear demand curve
with a maximum WTP and a minimum equal to the FY90 tariff rate. Based on
assumptions outlined in Table 6B, Part III, the EIRR for the project is
estimated to be 12.6Z, which compares favorably with the appraisal estimate of
11.4Z. However, this return is underestimated as some sub-stations and
distribution lines have not yet been energized (para. 5.03) and the
corresponding benefits have not been taken into account.
6.13       Environment:  The project's potential for direct adverse
environmental impact is limited to the construction of distribution lines and
substations and PBS headquarter facilities. There is also an indirect, but
very limited, impact caused by increased irrigation schemes and expansion of
small scale industries. A joint USAID/IDA review team concluded that local
procurement of wood poles did not have an adverse environmental impact as trees
were felled in a planned manner in the Sundarban forest to make poles.
Nevertheless, this will need continuous review. On the other hand, the project
has had a positive environmental impact by providing a higher quality of life
by replacing kerosene lamps with electricity. The replacement of diesel and
gasoline engines has also reduced local air pollution and led to a net
improvement in air quality since the grid generating plants are more efficient
and generally burn natural gas.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01       Although RE projects typically have high economic rates of return,
it is recognized that financial subsidies are required during the initial
period of operation. These aspects were reviewed by IDA which has accepted the
need for subsidies for RE programs. The Bangladesh RE program is subsidized in
three ways: (a) through an operating subsidy during the first five years of a
PBS's life; (b) through the bulk supply tariff (BST) for power sold by BPDB to
the PBSs, which is below long-run marginal cost (LRMC); and (c) through grants
and soft onlending terms on loans to finance investments. The operating
subsidy is the only real demand on GOB's budget but only supports the PBSs
during their infancy and is negligible compared to the total budget. The
cumulative operating subsidy received since FY81 by all the 33 operating PBSs,
as of June 30, 1990, was Tk. 413.7 million. For the Project PBSs, the
cumulative operating subsidy provided was Tk. 87.4 million, compared to a
requirement of Tk. 116.1 million.
7.02       The project has had the following significant benefits: (a) an
increase in the quality and coverage of power supply to small towns and rural
areas; (b) strengthening the management and organizational capabilities of REB
and the PBSs; (c) setting up uniform onlending terms for loans from GOB to REB
and the PBSs for RE projects; and (d) establishing appropriate bulk supply



- 12 -
tariffs and retail tariffs. However, the PBSs established under the project
have not yet achieved financial viability and are still dependant on GOB for
subsidies, both direct and indirect. The achievement of financial viability by
the PBSs in the long term and their ability to service their long term debts
will depend on their consumer mix, significant reduction of system losses and
adequate tariff increases. Further, GOB's ability to ensure early transfer of
BPDB lines and consumers in the PBSs' areas and energization of the non-
energized substations will also contribute to the PBSs' achieving financial
viability.
7.03       It was recognized that the PBSs would need to be subsidized
initially but they were expected to break-even by the sixth year of operation.
However, the actual results indicate that for most PBSs it would take far
longer. Therefore, to improve the viability of the PBSs, the following aspects
need to be reviewed in more detail: (a) the level of tariff which would capture
more of the WTP, but not jeopardize the RE program; and (b) whether, to improve
the ratio between operating and overhead costs, the size of the PBSs can be
increased without compromising on operating efficiency.
8.    IDA Performance
8.01       While USAID took the lead in financing rural electrification in
Bangladesh, IDA's support gave the program added dynamism. IDA has become the
largest contributor (US$ 229.3 million in three operations) to the program.
Further, through its involvement, IDA encouraged GOB to establish
(a) performance criteria of the PBSs (para. 6.10); (b) a formula for providing
subsidies to the PBSs (para. 7.01); and (c) uniform onlending terms for loans
to REB (para. 6.05). Because of IDA's involvement, other donors (e.g. Finland,
CIDA, SFD) have also been encouraged to support the program.
8.02       IDA's performance in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of
the project has generally been satisfactory, with the following exceptions.
While the appraisal of the original project was satisfactory, considering the
information available at that time, in retrospect it should have focused more
attention on REB and PBS finances and sought enforceable agreements requiring
BPDB to energize the PBS substations and hand over lines and consumers in the
PBS areas in a timely manner. The assumption that all PBSs would be
financially viable within five years was optimistic and should have been
analysed more thoroughly. Further, the appraisal mission overestimated GOB's
ability to finance the project's full local costs. Subsequently IDA had to
provide supplemental financing to cover part of the local cost. Because of
time constraints, appraisal and approval of the SAC were carried out in a very
hurried manner which led to inconsistencies between the President's Report and
the DCA regarding procurement.  Finally, due to IDA's inadequate monitoring
system, diverse types and large quantities of equipment involved, supervision
missions failed to notice REB's allocations of materials procured under the
project to non-project areas on a loan basis.
8.03       The project has been closely supervised by IDA.  During the project
life 13 supervision missions were fielded by IDA (mostly in conjunction with
other activities). In addition, the Bank's Resident Mission provided support
on a continuous basis which helped in effective implementation of the project.



-13 -
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01       Table 7 in Part III shows the status of compliance of covenants by
the Borrower (GOB) and the executing agency (REB). Except for not providing
the full amount of subsidies (para. 7.01) to the PBSs in a timely manner, GOB
complied with all covenants. REB's performance was also satisfactory, except
for compliance with the financial covenants (para. 6.05).
10.   Project Relationship
10.01      IDA's relationship with the Government and REB has been excellent.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01      Under Crs. 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD there was originally no provision
for financing consultancy services. The main consultancy support was being
provided by NRECA/GC, under financing from USAID. The first agreement with
NRECA to provide institution building and technical consulting services to REB
and the PBSs was signed in February 1978. This agreement expired in July 1984
but was extended initially to July 1987 and subsequently to July 1991. REB and
the PBSs have benefitted from the continuity of their advisory consultants
since inception. NRECA/GC have been successful in providing guidance for
institution building and transfer of knowledge. Their overall performance has
been satisfactory. The noteworthy institution building results suggests that,
for institution building, the consultancy period should be sufficiently long,
at least five years, to have a permanent impact. Another important, often
ignored factor is that the host institution's management and staff have to be
receptive to outside support for it to have meaningful impact. In this case,
both REB and the PBSs have been receptive to NRECA/GC's support.
11.02      Services from local consultants were originally to be financed by
GOB, but because of shortage of local funds IDA agreed to finance their
services under SAC, and the DCA was amended accordingly in October 1985. The
local consultants benefitted greatly from the training given by NRECA/GC, and
their performance was satisfactory. After PBSs are in operation, the local
consultants remain attached to the PBSs and provide technical support on
engineering aspects.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01      The DCAs (Crs. 1262-BD and 1504-BD) and the PA (Cr. 1262-BD) were
adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key
organizational and financial areas. The SAR provided a useful framework for
both IDA and REB for review of project implementation. Quarterly Progress
Reports and the monthly Management Information System reports, prepared by REB,
were useful for monitoring the project's progress and the performance of REB
and the PBSs. However, the format of REB's quarterly progress reports needs to
be improved so that actual project implementation, compared to SAR estimates
and project requirement, could be monitored easily.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
PART II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspectivel1
A.   Analysis of Key Issues
1.01      The Rural Electrification Phase-II-B project comprises
electrification of 28 upa-zillas of the country by establishment of 7 Palli
Bidyut Samities with a view to build up installation of new distribution
network in those areas. The primary objectives of the Government of
Bangladesh in embarking on a comprehensive program of rural electrification
are twofold. The first objective is the replacement of the use of costly
alternative energy sources and the second is the creation of additional
employment opportunities in rural areas through multiple cropping and new
small and cottage industries encouraged by easy and more economical energy.
The credit was signed between GOB and IDA on June 30, 1982 but the
effectiveness of the credit was subject to fulfillment of the following
conditions by the GOB/REB.
(a)  Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and REB
satisfactory to IDA.
(b)  Submission to IDA of a satisfactory sample standard sub-loan
agreement between REB and PBSs.
The credit became effective from November 30, 1982 on fulfillment
of the above conditions be the concerned authorities.
1.02      The project constituted a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR 36 million (US$ 40 million equivalent). The project components were:
(a) establishment of 7 PBSs; (b) installation of new distribution network in
those areas; and (c) rehabilitation for existing distribution systems in same
areas. The construction goals under the project included about 1,720 miles of
three-phase and single-phase primary line, about 1,680 miles of secondary line
and 14 nos. of 33/11 kV sub-stations keeping in view to connect 88,500
residential and commercial meters (representing about 185,000 households with
about 1.0 million people), 1,990 irrigation pumps and 660 industrial
enterprises at the turn of the project. Subsequently, a Development Credit
Agreement (supplemental assistance to selected projects) was signed between
GOB and IDA on July 25, 1984 and REB was provided with a loan amount of
SDR 7.6 million as a Supplemental Assistance Credit (Credit No. 1504-BD) with
the prime objective of extending local currency support for the Phase-II-B
project which was being implemented with IDA assistance. The last date of
withdrawal from the Credit No. 1504-BD was June 30, 1986 while the last date
of withdrawal from the Credit No. 1262-BD was originally set on June 30, 1989.
Eventually the Supplemental Credit No. 1504-BD was merged with 1262-BD and
because of prevailing unavoidable circumstances the loan/credit closing date
against Credit No. 1262-BD was fixed at June 30, 1990, the date also being the
last date of project completion.
1/   Part II is the Borrower's unedited product and its content are not
attributable to IDA.



- 15 -
B.   Bank's Performance
1.03      "Area Coverage Rural Electrification Phase-II-B' has been the first
project of IDA. Before this three other similar projects were undertaken by
REB with the foreign exchange assistance of USAID and KFAED. A pre-appraisal
and appraisal was carried out by the Bank for the project. During pre-
appraisal and appraisal, the Bank officials carefully considered a number of
things keeping in view the real improvement of the power sub-sector of the
country and the economic viability of the project. Moreover, during
negotiation of the project GOB/REB had to ensure IDA about fulfillment of
certain conditions and covenants which in turn obviously has helped the
executing agency (REB) in shaping and catering the need of the project as well
as of the whole RE program. A Development Credit Agreement (supplemental
assistance to selected projects) was signed between GOB and IDA on July 25,
1984 to provide local currency support to the projects originally financed by
the Bank (Credit No. 1262-BD) and an amount of SDR 7.6 million was allocated
to REB. Just before signing of the Supplemental Credit Agreement, REB sent a
proposal through GOB to IDA indicating requirement of fund and priority of
items for LC support. But Table 6 of the signed DCA on Supplemental Credit
Assistance sent to REB on July 30, 1984 from ERD showed item-wise allocation
of SDR 7.6 million all in foreign exchange and for items which were already
financed under Credit No. 1262-BD. It meant that, REB could not utilize a
single SDR for local currency support for which the supplemental assistance
was requested for. With a view to reallocate the money in order to utilize
within the scope of the P.P. a good number of letters were exchanged and a
series of meetings were held with the World Bank and finally the World Bank
agreed vide their letter of November 10, 1985 to modify the allocation but
fixed the last date of withdrawal from this fund on June 30, 1986 while the
last date of withdrawal from the Credit No. 1262-BD was June 30, 1989 and the
local currency expenditure would continue till that date. Under these
circumstances, REB requested through GOB to extend the last date of withdrawal
from June 30, 1986 to June 30, 1989. This proposal was not accepted by IDA
causing a serious problem in utilizing the whole reallocated amount within a
short span of time. Finding no alternative way to utilize the full amount,
REB requested the World Bank to pay bills for some items originally tendered
against Credit No. 1262-BD. This was accepted by IDA and at the last date of
withdrawal an approximate amount of SDR 5 million could have been utilized
leaving SDR 2.6 million as balance. In this backdrop, REB requested to
transfer the balance amount to Credit No. 1262-BD which was kindly acceded by
the World Bank. The Supplemental Credit Assistance was of immense help in
execution of the project, though the decision of the IDA regarding
reallocation of funds against Credit No. 1504-BD was very much time-consuming.
Procurement of project materials through ICB and LCB has been completed within
the framework of IDA procurement guidelines.
1.04      As per IDA procurement guidelines the offers are invited in terms
of CIF basis although evaluation is made by REB on C&F basis owing to the fact
that, insurance has to be made locally in accordance with the existing
Government regulation. Because of this procedure of evaluation it happens
that, the bidder having a lowest CIF value get the award though his C&F value
may be higher. The bidders being aware of the evaluation criteria keep the
CSF value higher and a low amount for insurance coverage. As a result REB has
to pay higher price in terms of costly foreign currency for procuring project
materials through ICB. The issue was brought to the notice of IDA informally



- 16 -
on several occasions requesting them to allow REB to invite offers on C&F
basis instead of CIF but no progress in this respect thus far. The
procurement under IDA credit would have been more cost effective if offers
were invited on C&F basis. However, procurement under this credit was found
smooth with all out help and cooperation extended by IDA.
1.05      It is pertinent to mention here that, IDA's involvement in solving
the problem regarding ban on import of single phase meter (imposed by GOB) was
found extremely beneficial for continuous and uninterrupted success of the
program. REB would appreciate IDA's such role at any critical juncture of the
program in future as well.
C.   Bank Officials
1.06      Quite a good number of Bank officials including members of the
Resident Mission were involved with the implementation of the project. Most
of the supervision missions on this project were composed of the officials
having sound Finance/Economic and energy monitoring background who played a
very significant role in smooth and proper implementation of the project by
rendering their valuable advice and prompt guidance from time to time. During
the implementation of the project the Resident Mission and the supervision
missions identified a number of key areas and advised to redress according to
the need to make the project economically viable. REB deeply acknowledges the
valuable advice and guidelines of IDA, without which the smooth implementation
of the project would not have been possible.
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
1.07      The project comprised of 3,400 miles distribution lines, 14 nos.
33/11 kV sub-stations and allied facilities including civil construction under
7 PBSs. Although construction of component infrastructure under the project
progressed smoothly at the initial stage but the project progress was retarded
due to the non-cooperative attitudes on the part of our sister organization
(Power Development Board) at the subsequent period. Although REB has achieved
the target of construction of new lines, the take-over problems of the PDB
lines has obstructed the line rehabilitation program under the project despite
the most sincere effort made on the part of REB/GOB and also the World Bank.
Apart from the line takeover problem, all the 14 nos. of sub-stations under
this project were constructed but only 11 nos. of sub-stations had so far been
hooked up by PDB. As a result consumer growth and load promotion has been
hampered to some extent which in turn is likely to have negative effect on the
project viability. REB however continued it's best endeavor to resolve this
problem with assistance from all concerned quarters like GOB; Planning
Commission; Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED); and the
World Bank. The joint engineering group formed, at the behest of IDA and the
Government, has been trying frantically to resolve this problem till to date.
1.08      The civil construction part of the project was delayed somewhat due
to the lack of local currency at the early stage of the project period. But
the Supplemental Credit Assistance (Credit No. 1504-BD) of the IDA provided
REB with necessary amount of local currency for this purpose. Besides that,
procedural difficulties in acquiring land was another factor towards delayed
implementation of civil construction component of the project. However, with



- 17 -
the availability of local currency support from USAID under PL-480 Title-III
fund and sincere effort on the part of REB and respective PBSs civil
construction target was fully achieved.
E.   Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower.
1.09      During the course of the project a good and effective bond of
relationship has been established between the Bank and the REB. Over the time
the mutual understanding has been strengthened further and a cordial working
relationship has been developed between both the sides. Due to mutual trust
and confidence built in each other RE-II and RE-III project with financial
assistance from IDA were undertaken which reflects IDA's faith on REB as a
strong institution in implementing the rural electrification program of the
country.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1262-BD AND 1504-3-BD)
PART III: Statistical Information
1. Related IDA Credits
Credit               Project                        Year of           Status
No.                                                 Approval
934-BD       Greater Khulna Power Distribution         1979      Project completed
1254-BD      Ashuganj Thermal Power                    1982      Project completed
1633-BD      Second Rural Electrification             1985       Under execution
1648-BD      Power Transmission and Distribution   1986          Under execution
1999-BD      Energy Sector Adjustment Credit          1989       Fully disbursed
2016-BD      Power Distribution (16-Towns)             1989      Under execution
2129-BD      Third Rural Electrification               1990      Credit awaiting
effectiveness



- 19 -
2.  Proiect  Timetable
Credit 1262-BD                                Credit 1504-3-BD
Item             Date Planned      Date Revised     Date ActuaL      Date Planned   Date Revised   Date Actual
Identification       -                 -
Preparation           -                -                 10/24/80
PreappraisaL         01/81             -                 -
AppraisaL            04/81             -                 05/19/81                                             01/84
Negotiations         09/81             -                 04/26/82                                             05/84
Board Approval        11/81            -                 06/15/82                                             06/19/84
Credit Signature      -                                  06/30/82                                             07/25/84
Credit Effectiveness 09/30/82          11/30/82          11/30/82          10/25/84                           10/25/84
Credit CLosing       06/30/89          06/30/90          06/30/90         06/30/86                            06/30/86
Project Conmletion   12/31/88          06/30/90          12/31/88         06/30/90



3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Year            Semester                Estimated             Rev. Est.                       Actual Cumulative                             Actual as %          Actual as %
Cumulative          Cumulative              1262-BD           1504-3-BD                   Total           of SAR          oa Rev. Est.
FY84                    1                         13.0                                      0.1                                       0.1                 0.8
2                        22.0                                       3.7                                      3.7                16.8
FY85                    1                         31.0                 12.8                  8.7                 0.0                  8.7                28.1                 68.0
2                        31.0                 22.7                 15.7                 0.7                 16.4                52.9                 72.2
FY86                    1                         31.0                 32.1                18.0                  0.7                 18.7                60.3                 58.3
2                        40.0                 38.7                21.5                  5.7                 27.2                68.0                 70.3
FY87                    1                        40.0                 42.7                 28.1                  5.8                 33.9                84.8                 79.4
2                        40.0                 45.7                 28.1                  8.9                37.0                92.5                 81.0
FY88                    1                         40.0                 45.7                30.2                  8.9                 39.1                97.8                 85.6
2                        40.0                 45.7                 30.9                  8.9                39.8                99.5                 87.1
FY89                    1                        40.0                 45.7                 31.3                  8.9                40.2                100.5                 88.0
2                        40.0                 45.7                 32.9                  8.9                41.8               104.5                 91.5
FY90                    1                         40.0                 45.7                38.2                  8.9                47.1                117.8               103.1
2                        40.0                 45.7                 38.3                  8.9                47.2               118.0                103.3
FY91                    1                        40.0                 45.7                 40.5                  8.9                49.4                123.5               108.1
(a) Esttmated Cumulative - _ per Stalt Apprased Report of Ciedt 1282-al.
(b) Revised Estimated Cumulative - an per Predent Pport of Credit 1d 04-S li 80I ndudes US$ 3 million (SDR 7.6 mltlon) provided undt Credit 1l04.4-S).
SDR 36.0 mIllion provided undcr Credi 1262-SO w  equivalent to US537.7 mtllton In March 1064 a! tte tim  of appraisa of SAC.
(c) Actual Cumulative - leolude disbursements under CredIts 1262-80 and 1504-3-S.
(d) Final disbursement wa made on December 31. 1  k6tw CredIt 1604-3-80 and on October 31, 1900 w credit 1262-SO.



- 21 -
4.    Prolect Implementation
Indicators                         Planned Completion   Actual Completion
1.    Procurement                         April 1986            June 1990
2.    PBS Headquarters Construction    December 1984            October 1989
3.    PBS Establishment                   September 1985        April 1985
4.    Substation Construction             December 1985         November 1990
(14 Substations)
5.    Line Construction                   December 1988         June 1990
Three Phase                 1,566 km                1,811 km
Single Phase                1,205 km                1,421 km
Secondary                   2,704 km               2,520 km
6.    Connection Targets                  December 1988         June 1990
Residential                 73,430                 70,953
Commercial                  15,057                  7,436
Irrigation                   1,904                 1,145
Industrial                     665                    971



5. Prodect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(US$ MilHlon)
Appraisl Effimate                   Revised Estimate                        Actual
Foreign     Local        TOal       Foreign     Local        Total     Foreign      Local       TOal
Exch. Costs    Cods                 Exch. Costs    Costs               Exch. Costa    Costs
Construction Commodities            28.1         3.6        31.7        28.1         3.6        31.7        46.3         3.3        49.6
Support Cornmodities                 1.8           -         1.8         1.B           -         1.8         2.4         0.1         2.6
Installation                           -         4 5         4.5           -         4.0         4.0                     4.2         4.2
Engineering & Overheads                -         3.7         3.7           -         3.2         3.2                     5.6         5.6
Sub-total:                         29.9        11.8        41.7        29.9        10.8        40.7       48.7        13.2        61.9
Contingencies
Physical                            2.2         0.9         3.1         2.2         0.9        3.1                                 0.0
Price                               7.9         4.0        11.9         7.9         2.5        10.4                                0.0
Total:                           40.0        16.7        56.7        40.0        14.2        54.2        48.7        13.2        61.9                       M
Duties and Taxes                                 7.6         7.6           -         9.4         9.4                     5.3         5.3
Total Project Cost                  40.0        24.3        64.3        40.0        23.6        63.6        48.7        18.5        67.2
Interest Capitalized                   -         0.2         0.2           -         0.2         0.2                                 0.0
Total Financing Required            40.0        24.5        64.5        40.0        23.8        63.8        48.7        18.5        67.2



B. Proiect Financina
(SDR '000)
Source                     Planned as per     Revised as per Supplemental         Second Revision as per Supplemental     Actual Utilization
Original Credit      Assistance Credit                    Assistance Credit
Alloc.    %    1262-BD  1604-BD      Total    %     1262-BD  1504-BD      Total    %     1262-BD  1504-BD      Total
IDA
Expenditure Categories
1. Line Materials           18,900     52.5   18,450    2,500   20,950      48.1   18,450      105   18,615      42.7   17,837    4,988   22,825      52.4
2. Substation Materials      8.100     22.5    7,750    2,200    9,950      22.8    7,750       -      7.750     17.8   10,150       -    10.150      23.3
3. Connection Materials      3,600     10.0    3.400    1,800    5.200      11.9    3,400       -      3.400      7.8    6,205    1,656    7,861      18.1
4. Support Equipment         1.800      5.0    1,800        -     1.800      4.1    1,800       -      1.800      4.1    1,184       -      1.184      2.7
5. Inspection Services          -       0.0       -       430       430      1.0       -       430      430       1.0       47       26       73       0.2
6. Installation Costs           -       0.0       _        -          0      0.0       _      2.800    2,800      6.4       67      314      381       0.9
7. Civil Works                  -       0.0       _        _         0       0.0       _      1,500    1.500      3.4       47      381      428       1.0
8. Consultant Services          -       0.0       -        -         0       0.0       _       765      765       1.8       11       48       59       0.1
9. Special Account              -       0.0    1.000      670    1,670       3.8    1,000      670    1,670       3.8      380      187      567       1.3
10.Unallocated               3.600     10.0    3.600       -      3,600      8.3    3.600    1,270    4,870      11.2       -        -        -        0.0
Total IDA                 36,000    100.0   36.000    7,600   43.600    100.0   36.000    7.600   43,600    100.0   35,928    7,600   43,528    100.0
Total IDA equiv. USS        40.000     62.0   37,000    8.500   45.500      71.5                                        40,479    8,920   49.399      73.5        M
Total GOB equiv. USS        24,500     38.0   18,100             18,100     28.5                                                           17,784     26.5
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING   64,500    100.0   55,100    8,500   63,600    100.0                                                              67,183    100.0



- 24 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                  Appraisal                 Actual at
Estimate                 Closing Date
1.  Substations                       14                         14
2.  Line Construction (km)
Three Phase                1,566                      1,811
Single Phase               1,205                      1,421
Secondary                  2,704                      2,520
3.  Line Rehabilitation (km)       2,005                        371
4.  Connections (Nos)
Residential               73,430                     70,953
Commercial                15,057                      7,436
Irrigation                 1,904                      1,145
Industrial                   665                        971
5.  Villages Electrified (Nos)                                1,330



Status of Covenants
BANGLADESH
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD and 1504-BD)
Agreement                                          Conformity                                            Action Proposed/Being Taken
GOB to carry out by December 31, 1984 LRHC         Yes. Delayed compliance                               The LRHC study was completed in June 1986. Based on the study
tariff study and implement agreed                                                                       GOB implemented agreed recommendations.
recommendations by July 1, 1986 or later
date as agreed (DCA 3.02(a)).
GOB to design by Deceober 31, 1982, and            Yes. Delayed compliance                               The method employed in the study for calculating LRMC has
thereafter implement, pending LRMC study,                                                                resulted in an average bulk supply rate of Tk.1.14/kUh
a method for calculation of bulk tariffs                                                                 implemented on May 1, 1987 and reflecting LRMC and subsequently
to be charged by BPOB (DCA 3.02(a)).                                                                     increased to Tk.1.19/kUh effective July 1, 1988, Tk.1.28/kWh
effective July 1, 1989, and Tk.1.41/kWh effective July 1, 1990.
GOB to provide operating subsidy to PBS's          Yes, partly                                           Cumulative subsidy provided since the beginning of the RE
in first 5 years of their operations                                                                    program amounts to Tk.413.7 N against Tk.553.4 N required as of
(DCA 3.02(a)).                                                                                           September 30, 31, 1990 leaving a shortfall of Tk.139.3 M.
GOB to provide promptly to REB as grant            Yes.
contributions all local funds required for
the project; and cover any deficit from
REB-s operations (DCA 3.01(a)).
GOB to cause RED by December 31, 1982, to          Yes.                                                  A Joint Engineering Planning Group, including MEMR, BPDB and
prepare and then implement a program to                                                                  REB has been created and is operational.                                  Un
improve coordination procedures between
REB, BPDB, BSCIC and bank involved in
rural electrification (DCA 3.03).
REB shall, and cause each PBS to have              Yes, partly. Except for FY89 audit report for
their accounts and financial statements            REB, all other audit reports for REB and PBSs
audited and furnish to IDA no later than           were received on time.
nine months after end of each FY certified
copies of financial statements and
auditors- report (PA 4.02).
In any FY REB to ensure that its                   No, mainty because of grace period of five           Under RE 3, the grace period has been increased to eight years
internally generated funds are not less            years for RED which do not cover the                  for GOB loans to REB. Further additional measures are being
than 1.5 times its debts service                   construction time of the PBS distribution             imptemented to improve RED's financiat performance (closeout
requirement (PA 4.03).                             system.                                               schemes, IDC, reconciliation of debt between GOB and RED, and
REB and the PBSs).
REB to cause each PBS to ensure that the           Yes                                                   Current POSs average tariff Is Tk.2.94/kUh, which is about 24X
average price per kWh sold should not be                                                                 higher than the average SPOB tariff.
less than the average price per kUh sold
by RES (PA 4.04(a).



Apreement                                         Conformity                                          Action Proposed/Being Taken
By 6th year operation of each PBSs, their         No.                                                 PBSs' financial objectives are being reviewed by NRECA and REB
tariff revenue to be sufficient to meet                                                               in context of recommendations aede by consultants to set up
PBS's purchases of electricity,                                                                       Individual Performance Agreements. This covenant is expected to
adcinistrative expenses, depreciation and                                                            be modified in line with agreements reached unler RE 3 Project.
interest; nd by 7th year, 20X of PBS's
average nnual capital expenditure (PA
4.04).
REB to ensure that accounts payable by            Yes. As of Jure 30, 1990 average accounts
each PBS to BPDB should not exceed two           payable has been 0.39 months.
months purchases of electricity by said
PBS (PA 4.05(a)).
REB to make available to each PBS as
short-term loans, ail funds as may be
acquired by said PBS as (a) working
capital requirements; and (b) provide
credit for customers to purchase                  Yes
appliances and for house wiring (PA 4.05).
K)
a~



- 27 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inouts
Staaes of Proiect Cvcle                                Actual
Through Appraisal                                      21.9 sw
Appraisal through Board                                45.9 sw
Board Approval through Effectiveness                      -
Supervision                                            76.3 sw
TOTAL                                               144.1 sw



- 28 -
B. MISSIONS
Stage of               Month/    Number of    Days in        Specialization           Performance          Types df
Proiect Cycle          Year       Persons       Field        Represented              Ratin                Problems
Through Appraisal
Preparation           10/80          1            15       Economist
Preappraisal          02/81          2            12       Economist
Power Engineer
AppraisaL             05/81          3            22       Economist
Financial Analyst
Power Engineer
Post-appraisal        10/81          1            4        Economist
Supervision
Supervision 1         09/82          1             4       Economist                      1
Supervision 2         05/83         3             20       Power Engineer (2)             1
Financial Analyst
Supervision 3         02/84          1           21        Financial Analyst              1
Supervision 4         07/85          2            15       Financial Analyst              2             Managerial
Power Engineer                               Technical
Supervision 5         01/86         3             15       Power Engineer                 2             Finincial
Energy Economist                             Technical
Financial Analyst                            Managerial
Supervision 6         05/86         3             26       Power Engineer                 2             Financial
Financial Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 7         12/86         2             16       Power Engineer                 2             Financial
Financial Analyst                            Managerial
Supervision 8         06/87         2              9       Power Engineer                 2             Financial
Financial Analyst                            Managerial
Supervision 9         02/88         2            23        Power Engineer                 2             Managerial
Consultant
Supervision 10        10/88         5             16       Power Engineer (2)             2             Managerial
Financial Analyst (2)
Economist
Supervision 11        04/89         3             13       Power Engineer                 2             Managerial
Financial Analyst                            Financial
Economist
Supervision 12        12/89         3             16       Power Engineer                 2             Managerial
Financial Analyst                            Financial
Economist
Supervision 13        05/90         2             11       Power Engineer                 2             Managerial
Financial Analyst                            Financial
1   1 - ProbLem free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems.



- 29 -
Annex I
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credits 1262-BD 1504-3-BD)
PBS Areas and Upazilas in the Pro-ect
SAR             Actual
PBS Name                                  UDazilas        Upazilas
Narshingdi (Dhaka II)                     Rupganj         Rupganj
Narshingdi      Narshingdi
Araihazar       Araihazar
Baidyarbazar   Baidyarbazar
Palash
Madaripur (Faridpur II)                   Rajoir          Rajoir
Madaripur       Madaripur
Kalkhini        Kalkhini
Noakhali                                  Ramganj         Chatkhil
Begumganj       Begumganj
Senbagh         Senbagh
Raipur
Chittagong II                             Fatikchari      Fatikchari
Raozan          Raozan
Rangunia        Rangunia
Hathazari
Bagerhat (Khulna II)                      Mollarhat       Mollarhat
Fakirhat        Fakirhat
Bagerhat        Bagerhat
Kachua          Kachua
Chitalmari
Barisal II                                Gournadi        Gournadi
Uzirpur         Uzirpur
Babuganj        Babuganj
Jhalkathi       Agailjharia
Banaripara
Meherpur (Kushtia II)                     Gangni          Gagni
Meherpur        Meherpur
Alamdanga       Alamdanga



- 30 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credits 1262-BD & 1504-3-BD)
Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified
The criteria employed by REB (developed jointly by REB and NRECA, with GOB and USAID approval) to
study, rank, and select new areas of the country for electrification, place emphasis on infrastructure and
numbers of potential consumers. The steps followed by REB in identifying priority areas are as follows:
(i)    Selection of a large number of prospective thanas for detailed study: these areas are
distributed throughout the country to achieve regional balance in the initial stages of
identification.
(ii)   Collection of detailed data for each thana (or group of thanas) covering the following
subjects:
-      available power supply: this covers available MW capacity on 132/33 kV substations,
after assessing total installed transformer capacity and maximum demand at the
substation, and capacity of 33 kV lines;
-      number of villages in the area;
-      area population;
-      number of households;
-      area in square miles;
-      miles of paved road in the area;
-      percentage of land area likely to be flooded regularly;
-      number of institutions (bank branches, extension offices, etc.) in the area;
-      extent of irrigated land;
-      numbers of tubewells and diesel-driven pumps, covering shallow and deep tubewells, and
low-lift pumps;
-      number of commercial establishments; and
-      number of small, medium, and large industries.
(iii)  Each major infrastructure and consumer potential indicator is ranked among areas, using a
straight numeral ranking beginning with 1 for the top area in the category, after eliminating
those areas that do not have surplus substation and 33 kV line capacity. Weighting factors,
developed in the Phase I feasibility study and ranging from 0.3 to 1.0, are then applied to
the rank of each category. The sum of the adjusted ranks of categories for each area
constitutes that area's final overall ranking: the lowest number represents the highest
overall rank.
(iv)   If an extreme regional imbalance emerges from the strict ranking procedure, constraints
representing regional equity considerations are applied, i.e. a minimum number of areas per
region is observed.



Annex III
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1 262-BD and 1 504-3-BD}
Procurement Schedule
Tranche-1           Tranche-2           Tranche-3           Tranche-4           Tranche-5
Procurement            SAR      Actual     SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual     SAR      Actual     SAR      Actual
Bid Invitation         1982      1982      1983      1984      1983      1985       1985      1986       -        1988
Aug.      Dec.      Mar.      Jan.      Aug.      April     Jan.      Feb.        -       Mar.
Bid Opening            1982      1983      1983      1984      1983      1985       1985      1986       -        1988
Nov.      Feb.      June      Mar.      Nov.      June      Apr.       Apr.       -       May.
Contract Award         1983      1983      1983      1984      1984      1985       1985      1986       -        1989
Feb.     June       Sep.      July      Feb.      Oct.      July      June        -       Jan.
Delivery 50%           1983      1983      1984      1984      1984      1986       1986      1986       -        1989
Aug.      Oct.      Mar.      Nov.      Aug.      Feb.      Jan.      Oct.        -       Sep.
50%            1983      1984      1984      1985      1984      1986      1986      1987        -        1990
Nov.      Feb.      June      Mar.      Nov.      June      Apr.      Feb.        -       June



BANGLADESH                                         Annex IV
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJET                                Pae 1 of 2
(Credits 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD)
Detailed Prolect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual Procurement
Estimated Cost (US$S000)                  Actual Cost (US$S000)
Item                            Unit    Ouantit      rign    LI         Tgl    Quantity   ForeLcn Lal           Tolal
Construction Commodities
Conductors                      Miles      8,436     5,268              5,268      16,335     8.702             8,702
Insulators                      Nos.  180,816         212                212      541,800       632              632
Ground/Guy Wires                Miles       512        257               257          709       531              531
Poles                           Nos.      66,976     7,317              7,317     136,100    11,868            11,868
Crossarms                       Nos.      18,256      227                227       53,700       644     25       668
Anchor Logs                     Nos.      42,406               505       505       92,300      1,250            1,250
Conductor Accessories           Lot            1       232               232            1       256              256
Connectors                      Lot            1        68                68            1       554              554
Misc. Hardware                  Lot            1     2,992      24      3,016           1      3,413    188     3,600
Transformers                    KVA       77,352     3,405              3,405     328,346      6,761            6,761
Voltage Regulators              Nos.         96        324               324           24       106               106
:Oi Circuit Reclosers           Nos.        352        272               272         1,059      508              508
Tie Switches                    Nos.         36         56                56            0         0                 0
Fused Sectionalizers            Nos.       1,336        72                72      247,266      2,182            2,182
Connection Materials
Res/Comm (Meters)            Nos.      88,488     3,100              3,100      95,000      2,113            2,113
Irrig/Andus (Meters)         Nos.       2,568       280               280       18,800      1,779            1,779
Street Lighting              Nos.        700        40                 40        1,060        44               44
Substations                     Nos.          14     3,735              3,735          24      4,562            4,562
Spares                          Lot            1       252               252            1       389               389
General Plant                   Lot            7              3,053     3,053           7         0  3,140      3,140
Subtotal Construction Commodities:    _             28,109    3,582    31,691      _          46,295  3,353    49,647



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
Appraisal Estimate                          Actual Procurement
Estimated Cost (US$'000)                      Actual Cost (US$'000)
Item and Unit                  Unit       Quantit    Foreign     Local      Total      Quantity   Forein     Local      Total
PBS SuDDort Equipment
Boat 5HP                       Nos.            14        14                   14             0         0                    0
Jeep                           Nos.             7        70                   70            20      1,176                1,176
Pickup Truck                   Nos.            14       140                  140            14        90                   90
A Frame Truck                  Nos.             7        84                   84             0         0                    0
Heavy Duty Trailer             Nos.             7        14                   14             0         0                    0
Pole Trailer                   Nos.             7        14                   14             0         0                    0
Tractor                        Nos.             7        70                   70             0          0                   0
Motorcycle                     Nos.           105       210                  210             0         0                    0
Tools                          Set              7       175                  175        35,858       777                  777
Communic. Equipment            Lot              7       350                  350             0         0                    0
Office Equipment               Lot              7       350                  350             0         0                    0
Computers                      Lot              7        65                   65             0         0                    0
Vehicle Spares                 Lot              1        80                   80             0         0                    0
Rest House Appliances          Lot              7        42                   42             0         0                    0
Crane                          Nos.             1        80                   80             4       211                  211
Portable Platform Scale        Nos.                                                         16         0         34        34
Fork Lifts                     Nos.                                                          4        33                   33
Static Phase Covering          Nos.                                                         50        96                   96
Miscellaneous Equipment        Lot                                                         516        46                   46
Subtotal Support Equipment:                            1,758         0      1,758                   2,428        34      2,462
Miscellaneous Costs
Line Installation                                                3,679      3,679                             2,195      2,195
Line Rehablitatlicn                                                342       342                                  0         0
Substation Installation                                            507       507                              2,028      2,028
Engineering & Supervision                                        1,556      1,556                             1,201      1,201
Insurance                                                          284       284                                318       318
Landing & Transport                                              1,699      1,699                             2,163      2,163
REB Overhead                                                       194       194                              1,881      1,881
Subtotal Miscellaneous Costs:                             0      8,261     8,261                       0      9,787      9,787
Subtotal Project Costs                                29,867    11,843    41,710                   48,723    13,173    61,896
Physical Contingency                                   2,208       888      3,096
Price Contingency                                      7,925     4,033    11,958
Total                                                 40,000    16,764    56,764                   48,723    13,173    61,896
Duties and Taxes                                                 7,533      7,533                             5,287      5,287
Grand Total                                           40,000    24,297    64,297       _           48,723    18,460    67,183



Annex V
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATiON PROJECT
(Credits 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD)
Utilization of Materials Procured
Appraisal      Actually          _          _ __        Utilization
item                 Unit           Estimate       Procured        In REB    Project PBS        Given to    Received from
.____________________  _________  __________  Stores                   other PBSs     other PBSs
Contruction Commodities
Conductors                        Miles              8,436          16,335             949        17,663              _          2,277
Insulators                        Nos.             180,816        541,800            4,866       527,369          9.565
Ground/Guy Wires                  Miles                512             709              56           782              _            129
Poles                             Nos.              66.976         136,100           1,716       131,200          3,184
Crossarms                         Nos.              18,256          53,700           1,030        52.649             21
Anchor Logs                       Nos.              42.406          92,300           8,911        88,748              _          5,359
Transformers                      KVA               77,352         328,346          51,945       238,572         37,829
Voltage Regulators                Nos.                  96              24               6            18              _               _
Oil Circuit Reclosers             Nos.                 352           1,059             329           706             24               _
Fused Secionalizers               Nos.               1,336         247,266          66,441       223,619              _         42,794
Connection Materials
ReslComm (Meters)             Nos.              88,488          95,000                _        95,000
Irrig/Indus (Meters)           Nos.               2,568         18,800          10,023          8,777             _
Stree Lighting                Nos.                 700            1.060            125            935              _
Substations                       Nos.                  14              24                            19              5
PBS Support Equipment
Jeep                              Nos.                   7              20               _            20              _
Pickup Truck                      Nos.                  14              14               _            14              _               _
Crane                             Nos.                   1               4               _             4              _
Portable Platform Scale           Nos.                                  16 -                          16              _
Fork Lifts                        Nos.                                   4               _             4              _
Static Phase Covering             Nos.                                  50              32             18
to IDA-1633
. . . , l ,_________________________I________________________           ________________________ ________________________ __________________________



BANGLADESH                                                                  Annex VI
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credits 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD)
Project Implementation
(as of June 30, 1990)
Connections:                   SAR Est.      Bagerhat        Barisal 11   Chittagong II   Madaripur       Meherpur      Narshingdi       Noakhali        Average
Residential                    10,490          7.257          8.791         13.002          9.088          12,080          6.541         14,194         10,136
Commercial                      2.151          1.114          1.642           1.281          1.367           326             739            967          1.062
Deep Tubewell                     65               0              0              7              3             52              76              2             20
Shallow Tubewell                 134               0              0              1            505             26             230             14            111
Low Lift Pump                     73               2             39             40            114              7              22              5             33
Industry                          95             154            126            128            202            106             158             97            139
Un
Line/Substation Construction:  SAR Est.      Bagerhat        Barisal II   Chittagong II   Madaripur       Meherpur      Narshingdi       Noakhali        Average
Three Phase Primary Line (km)    224             129            316            276            174             363            283            270            259
Single Phase Primary Line (km    172             250            136            137            232            250             166            250            203
Secondary Line (km)              386             287            429            434            350            270             253            497            360
Line Rehabilitation (km)         287             145             65             20             77             46              18              0             53
Substations (No.)                  2               1              3              2              1               3              3              1              2



ANNEX VTI
DaIe:                                                                                   BANGLADESH                                                              Page  1 of  3
lime:                '---
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
PROJECT COHPLEIION REPORI
INCOME SIAIENENTS
1981           1982           1985           1984            1985           1986            1987            1988            1989             1990
Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Prov.
Revenues
Interest from P0Ss             0.0    0.0   32.4    0.0   54.4    0.0   70.8    0.0   88.0    0.0   97.6    4.2   126.9   59.4   188.1   68.4   265.0   94.3   411.5    99.9
Other Revenues                  1.6    1.0    1.7    2.7    1.9    9.3    2.6    2.3    3.4    4.1    4.5    2.2            6.1    4.1      8.5    4.5    14.9    5.4    25.4         6.9
lotal Revenues                  1.6    2.3   34.1    2.7   56.4    9.3   73.4    2.3   91.4    4.1  102.1    6.4   133.0   63.5   196.6   72.9   280.0   99.8   437.0   106.7
Expenses
Pay L Allowance                12.0    0.0   18.3    6.3   22.7    5.5   25.9    5.9   28.3    7.4   29.2   12.8    31.8   14.6    32.8   17.4    33.8   17.1    34.8    18.8
Transportation                         0.0            3.3             1.8            2.9            3.1             3.2             4.0             4.0             5.4               5.6
Rent                                   0.0             3.1            2.6            2.8            3.9             3.3             3.1             3.5              5.2              6.0
Depreciation                    1.3    1.3    2.3    2.4    8.3    2.5    8.7    2.5    9.1    3.1    9.1    2.9             7.9    3.4      8.4    4.4      6.9    5.1       3.1     6.2
Other Misc. Expenses                 1f3.8            65.8            4.0            3.9             5.6            7.0             7.3             7.9             11.2             12.1
Total Expenses                 13.3  105.1   20.6   80.9   31.1   16.3   34.6   17.9   37.5   23.1   38.2   29.2    39.7   32.4    41.2   37.2    40.6   44.1    37.9    48.7
Operating Income              -11.7 -102.8   13.5  -78.2   25.3   -7.0   38.8  -15.6   53.9  -19.0   63.9  -22.8    93.3   31.1   155.4   35.7   239.3   55.7   399.1    58.1
Interest Expenses               4.7    4.3    9.9    5.8   16.3    8.7   22.4   15.4   28.4   29.4   31.7   38.8    48.9   34.1    79.6   61.4   118.2   93.5   181.8    71.8
Prior Pd's Adj.                 0.0    2.0    0.0    3.3    0.0  312.7    0.0  -13.9    0.0    0.7    0.0    0.1            0.0   22.0       0.0    0.4      0.0    0.8       0.0     0.2
met Income                    -16.4 -105.2    3.6  -80.8    9.0  297.0   16.4  -44.9   25.6  -47.8   32.1  -61.4    44.4   18.9    75.8  -25.3   121.2  -37.0   217.2   -13.5
Admin. cost as a X
of revenues                  1068.8 4748.7   82.7 3140.8   69.2  241.5   65.9 1353.6   62.0 1195.8   59.6 1019.1    60.7   99.4    57.2  129.2    54.3  132.8    49.6   107.1



ALNNEX VII
DAH                  ...                                                                 BANGLAOE SN                                                              Page  2 of  3
RURAl. EtECIRIFICA)ION BOARD
PROJECI COK4PI.EtION REPORT
SOU.RCES AND APPLICAIIONdS Of FUNDS SIAIEMENIS
1981           1982           1983            1984            1985           1986             1987            1988             1989             1990
Internal Sources               Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Prov.
operating Income              -11.7 -102.8   13.5  -78.2   25.3   -7.0   38.8  -15.6   53.9  -19.0   63.9  -22.8    93.3   31.1   155.4   35.7   239.3   55.7   399.1    58.1
Depreciation (lncl. Adj.)    1.3    1.3    2.3    2.4    8.3    2.0    8.7    0.0    9.1    2.1    9.1    2.7                 7.9    3.6       8.4    3.7      6.9    4.5       3.1      6.1
otot  lnmt. Sources           -10.4 -101.5   15.8  -75.8   33.6   -5.0   47.5  -15.6   63.1  -16.9   73.0  -20.1   101.2   34.7   163.8   39.4   246.2   60.2   402.2    6.4.4
Prior Year's Adj.               0.0    2.0    0.0    3.3    0.0  312.7    0.0  -13.9    0.0    0.7    0.0    0.1              0.0   22.0       0.0    0.4      0.0    0.8       0.0      0.2
External Sources
foreign Grants                345.9  306.5  236.5   86.9    0.0  126.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8    0.0    0.0              0.0    0.0       0.0   27.3      0.0   96.0       0.0   104.8
GOO Contribution              154.0  155.0  357.2  170.0  215.3  189.3  375.5  233.6  657.9  214.9  889.9  385.1  1009.8  417.9   908.5  331.6   493.5  391.8   209.4   (85.7
Capital Gains                           0.0            0.0             0.0           31.6            20.3           23.1            143.0            46.9             41.3              96.6
foreign Borrowing               0.0    0.0  279.1    0.0  627.1  `182.9 1023.0  3`16.5 1727.0 1028.6 2336.0  791.0  2650.8  996.0  2384.9  805.2  1609.2  737.3   789.8  1694.8
total Ext. Sources            499.9  461.5  872.8  256.9  842.4  499.0 1398.5  581.6 238.4.9 1266.5 3225.9 1199.2  3660.7 1556.9  3293.4 1211.0  2182.7 1266.4   999.2  2381.8
Sale of Assets                          0.0          117.5           211.8         1236.2            65.0           109.7           546.7          1206.7            822.3            1127.2
Reprnt. from PaSs               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    19.3    0.0   152.8    0.0   262.3   50.1   403.1   436.9
Def.Z Other LI..)  tiab.                3.7            2.7             2.0            44.7          -45,2            56.4      -      8.1             65.3           -85.7              22.5
Iota( Sources                 489.5  365.6  888.6  304.6  876.0 1020.5 1446.0 1833.1 2448.0 1270.1 3298.9 1345.4  3181.2 2)68.3  3610.0 2522.8  2691.2 2114.1  1804.5  403S.1
Applications
total Investment Prgm.        471.9  178.4 -227.6  294.1   -3.3  678.1  497.7  516.2  850.0  471.6 2272.5  356.4  -135.3  315.0  -554.6  975.0 -1219.6  910.3 -2141.1  1091.1
Loans to PASs                  20.1    0.0 1101.5  137.7  852.9  217.4  922.5 1241.9 1533.7   76.7  959.4  126.2  3826.5  565.2  3897.7 1217.0  3400.2  758.7  2986.3  1127.2
SpI Aund & Deposit              0.0   -5.2              7.2            7.2            -4.5           41.2            16.8             0.1             18.5            30.8              76.6
Loan to R.E.B. Emp(l.           0.0    0.0             0.1             0.0            -0.0            1.1             0.5             1.8              1.3             2.0               2.2
Ch.in St.ln transit             0.0    1.8             -0.6            0.9            -2.1          233.1             4.5           -98.8             59.5            78.9            -119.5
ins, and other Claiams          0.0    0.0             0.0             0.0            5.9             5.3             2.1             4.2            29.9            104.4              98.0
Debi Service
Affmortization                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    24.9    0.0   101.7    0.0   197.7   77.3   313.6    88.0
interest Payment                4.1    4.3    9.9    5.8   16.3    8.7   22.4   15.4   28.4   29.4   31.7   38.8    48.9   34.1    79.6   61.4   118.2   93.5   181.8    71.8
lotal Debt Service              4.7    4.3    9.9    5.8   16.3    8.7   22.4   15.4   28.4   29.4   31.7   38.8    73.8   34.1   181.3   61.4   315.9  170.8   495.4   159.8
Change in Working Cap.
Change in Cash                  0.8    3.8    2.1   24.7    3.4   -2.8  -10.5   55.0   -0.2  -56.7    0.8   16.5              0.7   38.6       0.1   48.0    31.6    5.6   215.4    78.0 
Chin W.C. other than Cash  -8.0  182.6    2.7 -164.3    7.5  110.9   13.8    5.3   36.0  462.2   34.4  783.6    15.4 1308.1    85.4  112.3   163.0   52.5   248.5  1519.7
Net Change in Work. Cap.    -7.2  186.4    4.8 -139.6   10.9  108.1    3.3   60.3   35.9  405.5   35.2  800.1    16.1 134.6.7    85.6  160.3   194.7   58.1   465.9  1597.7
Total Application             489.5  365.5  888.6  304.6  876.8 1020.5 1446.0 1833.1 2440.0 1270.1 3298.9 1345.4  3181.2 2168.3  3610.0 2522.8  2691.2 2114.1  1804.5  4031.1
Debt Service Coy. Ratio        -2.2  -23.1    1.6  -12.4    2.1   35.5    2.1   -1.9    2.2   -0.6    2.3   -0.5               1.6    1.7       1.7    0.6      1.6    0.7       1.6     3.1
I irm I. re-it . f rom P8Ss)



ANNEX VII
DATE:                                                                                        BANGL ADESHI                                                             Page  3 of  3
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
PROJECI CtOIPLEIl0W REPORI
BALANCE SHEEIS
1981            1982            1983            1984            1985            1986             1987             1988             1989              1990
As      on     J une 30             - . . .       . . .  . .     - -  - . .       . .  . . .       -  - - -       .  . . . .      .  . . .  .        - - - -  -      . . .  . .        . .  . . .
.............           Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act .   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act .    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Act.    Apr.   Prov.
Assets
fixed Assets
Gross fixed Assets              15.0   23.0   55.5   24.9   57.8   34.3   60.9   53.4   64.2  149.3   67.6  191.7    71.2   90.5    74.2   94.5    71.2  113.6    80.2   123.9
Less  Acc. Dept.                 5.3    4.3    6.7    6.7   14.9    8.8   23.6    8.8   32.7    10.9   41.8   13.6    49.7   17.2    58.1   20.9    65.0   25.5    68.1    31.8
Met Fixed Assets                 9.7   18.7   48.9   18.1   42.9   25.5   37.3   44.6   31.5  138.4   25.9  178.1    21.6   73.3    16.1   73.6                      12.3   W8.1      12.1    92.1
Work -In- Progress            1001.0  235.0  738.9  409.7  733.4  866.6 1228.0  127.5 2014.6  444.2 4343.8  648.5  4204.9  517.9  3647.3  282.3  2424.1  351.2   280.6   30.4.7
Loans to PISs                   31.6    0.0 1133.1  137.7 1985.9  355.1 29081.5 1597.0 4442.2 1673.6 5401.7 1799.8  9208.9 2365.0 12953.8 3582.0 16091.8 4290.7 18674.9  4981.1
Spi. fuwid IL other deposits              7.2           14.4             21.6            17.1            58.3            75.1             75.2             93.7             124.5             201.1
Current Assets
Cash IL workingj fund            6.0    9.1  -8.1   33.8   11.5   31.0            1.1   86.1    0.9   29.4        1.1   45.9       2.4   84.5        2.5  132.5      34.2  118.1    249.5   216.2
Medium/Short term Loans           4.0    WI.   6.0   20.5   15.0   13.5   30.2   10.8   64.9    4.4   93.4                4.5   116.0    5.2   198.1    4.6   357.2    8.0   603.               6.9 
Advance to Ewployees             0.0    0.7              0.6              1.0             1.3             1.3             0.9               1.1              1.5              2.4               3.2
Stores                                 395.8           251.9            339.4           293.4           806.0          1565.6           2894.0           2950.1           2994.6            4220.3          1
Receivables                             23.4            46.4             78.5           129.3           101.3           134.6            1153.0           155.5             180.4            492.5
Misc. Current Assets             2.0    0.0    2.0    0.0         2.0     0.0     2.5     1.0    2.5      3.2    2.5    1.2        3.0    3.6       3.0    0.3        3.0    0.3       3.0      0.3
lotal Current Assets            12.0  482.0   16.1  353.1   28.5  463.5   33.8  521.8   68.3  945.8   97.5 1152.7   121.4 3103.5   203.7 3244.6   394.3 3323.?   855.5  4939.2
Loan to RES euwployees                   0.0             0.1              0.1             0.1             1.2              1.7             3.5              4.8               6.9               9.1
Stores in transit                         1.8             1.2             2.1             0.0           233.1           237.6            138.8            198.4            277.2              157.7
Ins, and other Claims                    0.0             0.0              0.0             5.9            11.2            13.3             11.6             47.4             151.8             249.8
TOTAL ASSETS                  1060.3  744.6 1931.0  934.3 2790.8  1734.5 4201.6 2314.0 6616.1 3505.9 9868.8 4706.9 13556.7 694.9 16820.9 7526.7 18923.1 8614.1 19823.2 10914.b
Equity & Liabilities
E quit y
Foreign Grant                  315.5  331.1  612.0  418.1  612.0  544.9  612.0  544.9  612.0   18.6  612.0   18.6   612.0    0.0   612.0   27.3   612.0  123.3   612.0   228.1
G0o Contribuition              423.2  424.2  780.4  594.2  995.?  783.5 1311.2 1017.0 2029.1 1231.9 2919.0 1617.0  3928.8 2035.0  4837.4 2366.6  5130.9 2758.4  5540.1  3?44.l
Cap. Gain IL Ret. Earnings  -34.9 -268.4   -31.3 -349.2  -22.3  -52.2   -5.9  -65.5   19.6  -93.0   51.8 -131.3    96.1   30.6   171.9   52.2   293.1   56.4   510.3   139.5
total Equity                   763.7  486.9 1361.1  663.0 1585.4 1276.1 1917.3 1496.4 2660.7 1157.5 3582.8 1504.3  4637.0 2065.5  5621.3 2446.1  6236.0 938.1  6662.6  3611.7
Long Term Debt                 281.5  240.0  566.6  240.0 1194.5  422.9 2217.5  739.4 3944.5 2297.1 6280.5 3088.1  8906.4 4102.7 11189.5 4901.8 12681.0 5567.8 I3157.3  7174.6i
Other L. 1. liabilities                   0.0             1.0              1.5            2.4              2.9            5.5               8.5             11.5             15.5              182
Current liabilities              10.1   14.1    9.4   24.9   10.9   27.1   12.8   25.1   11.5   43.5    5.6   50.3                 13.3   54.4      10.0   35.2       6.1   56.2       3.3    14.1
Deferred Liabilities                      3. 7            5.3             6.8            50.6              4.9           58.7              65.8            126.1             36.4              56.2
lotal Equity L tiabilitiesl06l.S   744.6 1937.1  934.3 2790.8 1734.5 4207.6 2314,06616.7 3505.9 9868.8 4106.9 13556.7 6294.9 16820.9 1526.? 18923.1 8614.1 19823.2 10934.8



- 39 -
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credits 1262-BD and 1504-3-BD)
Performance Indicators of PBSs
Unit        FY86      FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
Baaerhat PBS
Electricity Purchased      MWh            54     1,170     2,494     3,200     4,000
Electricity Sold           MWh            47       836     1,824     2,490     3,214
Average Tariffs            Tk/kWh        2.04     1.88      2.36      2.46      2.75
Rate of Return             0            (0.9)     (4.1)    (2.9)     (3.1)     (2.5)
Operating Ratio            h            431       329       187       175      159
System Loss                              13        29        27       22        20
Power Factor               h             90        91        93       94        94
Load Factor                           30.79     31.29     32.05     33.00     34.58
Accounts Receivable        Months                 0.33      2.10      1.39      1.57
Accounts Payable to BPOB    Months               (7.09)    (3.02)     0.00      0.00
Barisal PBS-Il
Electricity Purchased      MWh           208     1,366     2,797     3,527     4,079
Electricity Sold           MWh           114     1,032     2,287     2,905     3,410
Average Tariffs            Tk/kWh        1.79     2.00      2.38      2.41      2.74
Rate of Return             %             (2.3)     (3.9)    (2.1)     (2.7)     (2.5)
Operating Ratio           |585                     263       143      152       145
System Loss                %              45        24        18       18        16
Power Factor                             90        91        92       92        93
Load Factor               0                      8.85     21.73     18.80     18.66
Accounts Receivable        Months                 0.11      0.56      1.20      1.81
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months                1.35      0.00      0.82      0.00
Chittagong PBS-Il
Electricity Purchased      MWh                     685     2,382     3,255    5,153
Electricity Sold           MWh                     487     1,844     2,601     3,796
Average Tariffs            Tk/kWh                 1.48      1.76      1.79      2.19
Rate of Return                                    (4.4)    (4.1)     (4.8)     (3.0)
Operating Ratio            %                       422       204      190       159
System Loss                 0                       29        23       20        26
Power Factor               h                       93        94       95        96
Load Factor                h                     7.84     18.76     22.84     10.19
Accounts Receivable        Months                 0.07      0.15      0.13      0.80
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months                0.14      1.37      0.00      1.96
Madaripur PBS
Electricity Purchased      MWh           177     2,753     5,876     8,672     7,941
Electricity Sold           MWh           209     2,179     4,668     7,357     6,648
AverageTariffs             Tk/kWh        1.66     1.85      2.24      2.17      2.58
Rate of Return            (% (1.9)                 (3.2)    (2.1)     (0.9)     (0.3)
Operating Ratio            %/0           412       189       119      107       103
System Loss               1%/            (18)       21        21       15        16
Power Factor               0%/            90        92        95       94        97
Load Factor               1% 1___15.63                     22.29     25.52     25.39
Accounts Receivable        Months       0.07      0.39      1.05      1.88      1.94
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months      0.46    (17.01)     0.00      0.58      0.00



- 40 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 2
Unit        FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89     FY90
Mehermur PBS
Electricity Purchased      MWh       __     _      136     1,476     3,387     4,963
Electricity Sold           MWh                     149     1,232     2,792     4,199
Average Tariffs            Tk/kWh                  1.81     2.12      2.18      2.57
Rate of Return             %                       (2.1)     (3-1)     (2.2)    (2.1)
Operating Ratio                    1               440       204       158       135
System Loss                0/o%    T _      _      (10)       17        18        15
Power Factor                __91                              92        94        95
Load Factor                __ _ = _ _             5.11     23.67     24.63     29.15
Accounts Receivable        Months  _     _0.39              0.64      0.85      0.99
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months           1    5.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
Narsinqdi PBS
Electricity Purchased    - MWh                     278     1,378     3,171     6,216
Electricity Sold           MWh   j2_ 206                   1,161     2,737     5,094
Average Tariffs            TkIkWh                  1.89     2.12      2.19      2.70
Rate of Return             0                       (3.7)     (3.9)     (2.3)     (0.5)
Operating Ratio            %/0                     465       196       135       105
System Loss                /O    _                 26        16        14        18
Power Factor               O                        90        92        92        92
Load Factor                h                               14.75    18.72     25.58
Accounts Receivable        Months                  0.61     0.27      0.48      0.71
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months                 0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Noakhali PBS
Electricity Purchased      MWh                     243      1,731    2,979     5,019
Electricity Sold           MWh                     177      1,386    2,575     4,096
Average Tariffs            TkIkWh                  1.58      1.91     2.09      2.55
Rate of Return             0/a                     (2.3)     (3.8)     (3.1)     (2.5)
Operating Ratio           0%                       580       236       176       138
System Loss                0_ _                     27        20        14        18
Power Factor               %                        96        96        97        98
Load Factor                0_             _        5.55     17.03     19.88    18.96
Accounts Receivable        Months                  0.15      0.40     0.46      0.92
Accounts Payable to BPDB    Months  _     _       (6.60)     0.00      0.00      1.17
All PBSs
Electricity Purchased      MWh           439      6.631    18,134    28,191    37,371
Electricity Sold           MWh           370      5,066    14,402    23,457    30,457
Average Tariffs            Tk/kWh        1.73      1.84      2.29      2.33     2.59
Bulk Supply Tariff         1%/
Average BPDB Retail Tariff  /%      |         |        |_j
System_ Loss _%                            16       24        21        17        18
Power Factor               ____ %          90       91        93        94        95
Load Factor               _%         _               13       23        25        22
Accounts Receivable        Months        0.07     (2.96)     0.87      1.14      1.30
,Accounts Payable to BPDB    'Months      0.46               (0.23),    0.28     0.39



