Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3337 BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On January 11, 1982, the exchange rate was set at Tk 38.3720
A buying and Tk 38.4720 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate
movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross rate is
subject to change.  In recent months this rate has fluctuated between
Tk 21-22 per US dollar.  Throughout this report the rates shown below have
been used:
US$           = Tk 18.0
Tk 1          = US$ 0.0556
Tk 1 million  = US$ 55,556
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 =    39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)        =    0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram (kg)             =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 kilo calorie (kcal)       =    3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilogram standard coal
equivalent (kg ce)        =    7,000 kilocalories (kcal)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =    1,000 volts (v)
1 megawattt (MW)            =    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)       =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -     Asian Development Bank
BPDB       -      Bangladesh Power Development Board
GOB        -     Government of Bangladesh
IDA        -      International Development Association
SfW        -     Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
OPEC       -     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PBS        -     Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electricity Society)
FvEB       -     Rural Electrification Board
UNDP       -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development
BPDB'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:     Rural Electrification Board (REB).
Amount:           SDR 36 million (US$40 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Relending         GOB would onlend the entire credit proceeds (US$40 million)
Terms:         to the Rural Electrification Board (REB) for a period of 30
years including 5 years of grace; the interest would be 2%
per annum during the 25 year repayment period and 0.75% per
annum (capitalized) during the grace period. The assets of
the completed schemes will be transferred by REB to each
concerned rural electrification cooperative (Palli Bidyut
Samity - PBS), on the basis of a loan. The terms would
provide for a repayment period of 25 years, commencing on
the same date as the repayment period for the onlending from
GOB to REB. Interest during the repayment period would be
at a rate of 3% per annum. Prior to the repayment period,
an interest rate of 0.75% would be applicable but capital-
ized. GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Purpose:          The project would support GOB efforts to expand the supply
of electricity in the rural areas and finance the installa-
tion of new and the rehabilitation of some existing, elec-
tricity distribution networks in seven PBS areas, as part of
Phase II of GOB's Rural Electrification Program.
Project Risks:   The proposed project would involve the usual risk of delay
in implementation encountered in projects of this type, due
mainly to the present shortage of skilled line construction
staff. However, it is expected that this situation will
improve as a result of GOB's ongoing intensive linemen
training program which is being implemented with USAID
assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated
Project Cost:
Duties
Foreign    Local   & Taxes   Total
-------------US$ million----------
Construction Materials
and Equipment               28.1        3.6        5.4     37.1
Support Equipment              1.8         -         0.2       2.0
Installation                    -         4.5         -        4.5
Engineering and Overheads       -         3.7         -        3.7
Sub-total                     29.9       11.8        5.6     47.3
Physical Contingency           2.2        0.9        0.4       3.5
Price Contingency              7.9        4.0        1.6      13.5
Total Project Cost            40.0       16.7        7.6      64.3
Interest Capitalized            -         0.2         -        0.2
Total Financing Requirement 40.0         16.9        7.6      64.5
Financing
Plan:
Foreign    Local       Total
…-------US$ million--------
IDA                           40.0          -        40.0
GOB                             -        24.3 /a    24.3 /a
Total                      40.0       24.3        64.3 /a
Estimated
Disbursement:
FY84         FY85         FY86
Annual                    22            9            9
Cumulative                22           31           40
Economic Rate
of Return:                 About 11%.
Appraisal Report:            Bangladesh: Rural Electrification Project,
Report No. 3728b-BD, dated May 14, 1982.
Maps:  IBRD Nos. 15200R and 16036.
/a Of which duties and taxes would amount to about US$7.6 million and
excluding capitalised interest of $0.2 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 36 million
(the equivalent of US$40.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help finance
a Rural Electrification Project. The proceeds of the proposed credit would
be on-lent to the Rural Electrification Board (REB), a wholly state-owned
corporation, for a period of 30 years, including a grace period of 5 years;
the interest would be 2% per annum during the 25 year repayment period and
0.75% (capitalized) during the grace period. The assets of the completed
schemes would be transferred to each concerned rural electricity cooperative
(Palli Bidyut Samity - PBS) on the basis of a loan. The terms would provide
for a repayment period of 25 years, commencing on the same date as the repay-
ment period for the onlending from GOB to REB. Interest during the repayment
period would be at a rate of 3% per annum. Prior to the commencement of the
repayment period, an interest rate of 0.75% would be applicable but capital-
ized. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3,
1982) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
1/ Parts I and II and paragraphs 26-41 of Part III are substantially the
same as Parts I and II and paragraphs 26-41 of Part III of the Report on
the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Report No. P-3313-BD), dated May 12,
1982.



-2-
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's
difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation during the second half of the past decade
was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81.  Favorable
weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs helped to increase
rice production by 9% to a record level of 13.7 million tons and wheat
production by 33% to 1.1 million tons. As output in industrial and services
sectors also increased substantially over their FY80 levels, GDP at market
prices increased by about 7% in real terms. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments in production, Bangladesh experienced growing financial difficulties
during FY81. Sharply higher petroleum prices, declining export prices for
jute goods and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities below the Govern-
ment's expectations, affected the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid
receipts, an unanticipated shortfall in debt service payments from public
enterprises, and substantial expenditures on food procurements which were
necessary in order to maintain farmgate prices in a record crop year also
affected the budget; and a budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to
about 2 1/2% of GNP at market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit
ceilings for June 1981 established in the context of the EFF arrangement with
the IMF were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was
suspended. The Fund is currently reviewing the situation in the light of the
country's financial and balance of payment prospects.
The Balance of Payments
6.      Bangladesh's balance of payments.is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid; export earnings are
currently less than 30% of the import bill. A sharp decline in export prices
of raw jute and jute goods (which account for two-thirds of total export



-3-
earnings) and of major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish
products, led to a 2% decline in export earnings in FY81, although the volume
of exports increased by 10%. Imports, on the other hand, increased by 6% in
value terms as a result of increased prices of crude petroleum and petroleum
products and of other imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by
22% in FY81 mainly as a result of higher import prices and the sharp decline
in export prices noted earlier.
7.      The current account deficit--US$1.43 billion in FY81--has been con-
siderably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth of
workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the second
most important source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments gap was
largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion, close to
half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements increased
substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity
as well as a build up in the project pipeline, there was, as noted earlier, a
crucial shortfall in ccmmodity aid availabilities and new commitments.
Bangladesh also made considerable use of IMF resources, including initial
drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF arrangement which became effective in
December 1980 and which was subsequently suspended.
8.      The balance of payments position in FY82 remains difficult.  Export
earnings are expected to decline sharply this year, due to depressed prices
for jute, and terms of trade to decline further by 15%. Aid inflows are
expected to be only about 5% more in nominal terms than in FY81. Given the
tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below FY81
levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the manufacturing sector. Gross reserves may have to be run-
down by about US$100 million by the end of FY82 to around US$150 million, the
equivalent of three weeks imports; and in addition, net short-term borrowing
of about US$170 million will be required to bridge the external financing gap
for FY82.
9.      Debt service payments on medium and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total, In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.



-4-
Public Finance
10.     Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79
deteriorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for invest-
ments in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major
public sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with these difficul-
ties, although the Government cut back the development budget by about 13%,
the deficit for FY81 substantially exceeded revised forecasts (see above).
The budgetary situation continues to be tight in FY82 as the severe balance
of payments situation has a substantial impact on tax revenues. In order to
contain the budget deficit to manageable proportions, the Government has
reduced the local currency component of the development budget by 15% below
the budgeted level.
1.     The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, following the
depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to eliminate
the subsidy on this account.
12.     Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole.  Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 14.-9%
in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 6%. However, as a
result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82 inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at an annual rate of about 18%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
13.     The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase
to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with
a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to unity by 1990; (iii)
progress towards mass literacy through free universal primary education; and
(iv) priority to energy development, particularly through accelerated
exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.



-5-
14.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its
achievement will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient resour-
ces to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to
play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of
foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and
training, and appropriate producer incentives.
15.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
16.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age by
1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. GOB has formu-
lated, with IDA assistance, a medium-term plan for the education sector.
17.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a



-6-
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.  1/
18.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.1 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of March 31, 1982, 58 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1,804.67 million; of these, US$765 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three invest-
ments (for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a
leather factory) have been approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(19 of the 46 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. Irn addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interferring
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
IDA plans to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages of
generation capacity or distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the Bank's
1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



-7-
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from
three fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a portion of
local currency expenditures in certain priority areas such as energy, educa-
tion, agriculture and rural development, and family planning.
25.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.



-8-
PART III - ENERGY AND THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption
26.     Annual energy consumption in Bangladesh has been estimated at about
10.5 million tons standard coal equivalent 1/ in 1979. More than 70% of the
country's energy requirements are met from traditional, non-commercial sour-
ces such as firewood, and vegetable and animal wastes; commercial energy
constitutes the remainder. Besides local natural gas and very limited hydro
power potential, imported crude oil and petroleum products are the main
commercial energy sources. Bangladesh's per capita consumption of commercial
energy is the eighth lowest in the world, amounting to only 41 kg ce in 1979.
Total energy consumption per capita in Bangladesh including traditional
fuels, amounted to some 150 kg ce in 1979. Even at present low levels of
consumption, oil imports absorb about 60% of Bangladesh's export earnings.
Energy Resources and Energy Balance
27.     Except for the northern hills of Chittagong, Bangladesh is a flat
deltaic country with limited hydro potential. The Karnafuli River has been
harnessed at Kaptai with an installed capacity of 80 MW and an additional
50 MW under construction, which is expected to be commissioned in 1983. Two
additional units of 50 MW each are planned for 1986/7. An overall survey of
the country's hydro potential has yet to be undertaken. While some addi-
tional potential may be identified it is likely to be limited.
28.     Natural gas is the main known commercial energy resource of
Bangladesh. There are ten fields, all located in the eastern part of the
country (east of the Brahmaputra/Jamuna River), with aggregate reserves of at
least 260 billion cu m. 2/ Although preliminary exploration indicates that
natural gas may be found in the west zone, no commercial quantities of gas
have so far been identified. At an assumed annual consumption growth rate of
10%, the gas reserves will last for some 33 years, even if no new deposits
are found.
29.     Coal deposits exist near Jaipurhat, but the depth of these deposits
and technical extraction difficulties make their utilization at the present
time uneconomical. Explorative activities for oil have been going on for
more than 15 years but have so far resulted only in gas discoveries.
1/ 1 kilogram standard coal equivalent (kg ce) = 7,000 kilocalories.
2/ An additional offshore field was discovered in 1977, but its development
is not currently being contemplated.



-9-
Power Sector
Institutions
30.     The principal institutions responsible for policy matters in the
power sector are: (i) the Planning Commission which coordinates development
efforts within the sector with those of other sectors and is responsible for
sanctioning all schemes costing more than Tk5 million, and (ii) the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Resources which supervises the sector and to which the
power generating and distributing institutions are accountable.
31.     The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was established in
1972, as a statutory Government corporation, to carry out nationwide respon-
sibilities of generation, transmission and distribution of electric power
besides the responsibility of system planning and development. BPDB was the
sole authority responsible for these functions until 1977, when the Rural
Electrification Board (REB) was created to take over from BPDB the distribu-
tion of electricity in rural areas. At present, all consumers are supplied
directly by BPDB except for those areas in which new rural electrification
schemes have been completed by REB.
Existing facilities
32.     Bangladesh is divided into two zones - east and west - by the Brah-
maputra/Jamuna river basin. The two separate (eastern and western) power
systems will be unified in a nationwide grid after the completion of the 230
kV east-west interconnection by FY83 which is being implemented with assis-
tance from the Kuwait Fund. For the time being, and due to the unequal
distribution of energy resources in the country, all power plants in the west
zone are using imported oil while most of the power generation in the east
zone is based on indigenous natural gas and hydro power. In FY1980/81,
BPDB's installed capacity (including isolated systems) totalled 776 MW: 519
MW (67%) in the east zone; and 257 MW (33%) in the west zone. In addition,
there is some 188 MW of captive power owned by different industries, among
which the largest are the steam stations at the paper mills in Khulna (24 MW)
and Chittagong (28.5 MW), the steam station at the Fenchuganj (36 MW) fer-
tilizer plant, the combustion turbine station at the fertilizer plant in
Ghorasal (110 MW), and a combustion turbine station with two 15 MW units at
the new fertilizer plant in Ashuganj.
33.     In 1980, the overall power system included some 1,345 km of 132 kV
transmission lines, of which about 485 km are double circuit, 5,020 km of
66 and 33 kV sub-transmission lines and 14,280 km of 11 kV and low voltage
distribution lines. A new adequately equipped dispatch center was installed
at Siddhirganj in 1980 to meet the future requirements of the interconnected
system.



-10-
34.     During FY79/80 and FY80/81, REB, with assistance from USAID, has
completed the construction of 1,030 km of 11 kV and low voltage distribution
lines for five Palli Bidyut Samity (PBS) cooperative areas which have been
energized and, in 1981, supplied about 6,500 rural consumers.
Access to Service and Status of Supply
35.     Total energy generated by BPDB's power plants in FY1979/80 was 2,317
GWh: 1,729 GWh (75%) in the east zone; and 588 GWh (25%) in the west zone.
At the end of FY1979/80, the total number of consumers supplied by BPDB
reached some 522,000, still very low in relation to total population. Only
1,596 out of 65,000 villages have been electrified which indicates that about
98% of the population in rural areas (around 60 million) do not have access
to electricity service. Because of this, the per capita consumption of
electricity was only 16 kWh in 1979/80.
36.     Of the installed capacity of 776 MW in 1980, only about 626 MW (81%)
was potentially available at peak periods (426 MW in the east zone and 200 MW
in the west zone). Actual availability was even lower. This compares with a
maximum demand in 1980 of 338 MW in the east zone and 124 MW in the west
zone. Although the installed capacity in the west zone was further increased
in 1980 by 76 MW of gas turbines which are operated as base load units, the
available capacity in the west zone is still critically low with a margin of
available capacity of only about 36 MW (less largest unit out). Two main
factors are expected to improve capacity availability in both zones, namely:
the completion of the east-west interconnection which will eliminate the need
to operate combustion turbines as base-load generating units; and the
implementation of the BPDB power stations rehabilitation program which was
recommended in a study developed in 1980 with ADB finance and for which GOB
has already made arrangements to secure the required finance from the Federal
Republic of Germany.
37.     At present, the power system suffers from frequent power supply
outages and voltage fluctuations as well as low and fluctuating frequency.
One main reason for unreliability of supply, in addition to insufficiency
of base load generating capacity in the west zone, is the inadequacy of
BPDB's distribution facilities, especially in major urban areas, where lines
are too long and overloaded and there is a great need for additional substa-
tion capacity. To improve this situation; the distribution networks in major
urban areas are being rehabilitated and extended with assistance from exter-
nal donors including: the IDA/OPEC (Greater Khulna Power Distribution
Project, Credit 934-BD), the Asian Development Bank (Greater Chittagong Power
Distribution Project) and the United Kingdom (Greater Dacca Power Distribu-
tion Project).
38.     Another cause of the unsatisfactory supply is the lack of regular
preventive maintenance by BPDB, particularly for generating facilities,
stemming from a lack of spare parts and materials as well as the dearth of



-11-
trained personnel. To acquire needed spares in adequate supply, BPDB would
need to improve its financial viability so as to be able to finance its
import needs and GOB needs to provide the required foreign exchange resour-
ces. This issue is being addressed under the proposed Ashuganj Thermal Power
Project. The problem of manpower can be solved only by developing adequate
training facilities and training large numbers of personnel, not only for
BPDB's own needs but to compensate for emigration to lucrative positions in
the Middle East countries and elsewhere. This situation is expected to be
improved through the ongoing system rehabilitation program, an ADB-financed
training program, and the training program under the Greater Khulna Power
Distribution project.
Pattern of Consumption and Demand Forecast
39.     The consumption of electricity increased between 1976 and 1981 at an
average annual rate of about 13.2%; the average annual rate was 11.2% in the
east zone and 20.8% in the west zone. The annual growth, which was 13.3% in
1979, declined to only 3.9% in FY1980 due to supply constraints; meanwhile,
preliminary figures for FY1981 indicate a growth of about 21%.
40.     BPDB has based its power demand projections on the extrapolation of
recent historical trends, adjusted to take account of specific development
projects in the various sectors of the economy. For the period 1980-1990,
sales of electricity are expected to increase from around 1,462 GWh to about
6,318 GWh, at an annual average rate of 15.8%. Under these assumptions, by
FY1986, there will be no margin of generating capacity (less largest unit
out) in excess of projected maximum demand until the proposed Ashuganj Ther-
mal Power Project is implemented. Based on current demand forecast, the
share of REB/PBS Cooperatives would be about 16% of BPDB's total sales by
1990, and the total rural consumption would be about 19%, including direct
BPDB's supply in the rural areas, compared to around 2% in 1980. The pattern
of electricity consumption in 1990 would be around:  agriculture (6.4%),
industry (62.1%), commercial (12.5%), domestic (18.0%) and others (1.0%).
BPDB's Development Program
41.     BPDB's power development program is based on a UNDP-financed,
ADB-administered Energy Study, which was carried out in 1975/76, and on
requirements for system expansion to meet the country's expected demand for
power till 1990. It consists of a number of ongoing projects which include:
an additional hydroelectric unit at Kaptai (50 MW) and an oil/natural gas
fired steam unit at Chittagong (60 MW), both of which are in the east zone;
and a large (110 MW) oil/fired steam unit at Khulna in the west zone. These
units, totalling 220 MW, are expected to be commissioned in FY83. In addi-
tion, initial steps are now being taken to install a 90 MW combined cycle
unit (combustion turbine/steam turbine) at Ashuganj, which is expected to be
commissioned in FY1983. A 125 MW nuclear unit shown in earlier investment
programs and which was not considered justified on economic grounds has since



-12-
been eliminated from BPDB's current program. Ongoing transmission projects
include the construction of about 500 km of 132 kV overhead lines to make
power available to isolated areas, especially in the west zone and the
east-west interconnection. The major ongoing distribution projects are
Greater Dacca Power Distribution, Greater Chittagong Power Distribution and
Greater Khulna Power Distribution.
The Rural Electrification Program
42.     Under its rural electrification program GOB plans to supply elec-
tricity to most parts of the country (with the exception of thinly populated
areas) through the establishment of 84 electricity cooperatives by early
1990's. The initial 13 cooperative areas comprising Phase I of the program
will provide electricity to about nine million people in about 1.6 million
households. Phase II of the Program, of which the proposed project forms
part, would cover an additional population of 15 million, in 20 cooperative
areas, of which up to 20% are expected to receive electric service by 1988.
The program is aimed at: replacing the use of costly alternative energy
sources (mainly imported petroleum products) for lighting, irrigation pump-
ing, and village industry, with electricity generated to an increasing degree
from domestic natural gas; creating additional employment opportunities in
rural areas, through multiple cropping and the development of small-scale
industries; and at improving the quality of life in the rural areas, reducing
migration to the main urban centers, and improving the infrastructure in
hitherto less developed areas of the country.
43.     Present electricity demand in Bangladesh is predominantly industrial,
accounting for about 64% of total consumption. The pattern of demand in the
rural areas, however, is expected to be quite different. When a rural area
approaches its potential load, about 50% of electricity consumption will be
accounted for by domestic and commercial lighting, about 20% by irrigation
pumping, and the remaining 30% by small and medium industry. Currently,
rural electrification coverage in Bangladesh is insignificant and limited to
the outskirts of urban and township areas. Accordingly, the above projec-
tions are the best estimates of likely future development, as indicated from
surveys, forecasts, and the limited experience with initial consumer response
in new areas. The projected rural demand pattern also reflects GOB's
approach to rural electrification which is based on the concept of "Area
Coverage Rural Electrification" (ACRE), and involves a basic distribution
design system that caters for a maximum number of potential consumers, up to
the relative saturation of an area. This approach ensures a sound backbone
system that could sustain a rapid increase in the density of domestic and
productive consumer connections and has so far proved to be satisfactory.
Although this approach is new in Bangladesh, initial response of the popula-
tion has been good.



-13-
Rural Electrification Board (REB)
44.     The REB Board of Directors consists of a chairman and three full-time
members, all appointed by GOB, and four part-time members (representing the
BPDB, the Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation, the Small and
Cottage Industries Corporation, and the Integrated Rural Development
Program). The organizational structure is appropriate for REB activities and
objectives, and provides flexibility for future expansion.
45.     Assisted by USAID-financed consultants, both the REB and PBSs have
set up most of their working systems and established: an accounting system
and an accounting manual for REB; a uniform accounting system and an account-
ing manual for PBSs; organizational structure, job descriptions, and staffing
for REB and PBSs; meter-reading, billing and collection systems for PBSs;
a stores system and a stores control manual for REB and PBSs; formal training
schemes for REB and PBS staff; and a retail tariff calculation system for the
PBSs which have been energized. The above systems are satisfactory, and the
initial results of their application have been encouraging. The consultants,
whose services would be retained and financed by USAID under Phase II of the
Program, have also been supervising the implementation of the
newly-introduced systems, participating in training arrangements and sharing
actively in the development of the rural electrification scheme. The exist-
ing arrangement will cover satisfactorily all technical assistance needs of
REB over the proposed project period.
46.     REB's staffing and training programs have progressed satisfactorily.
The sanctioned number of engineers and assistant engineers at all levels is
100, of which 91 have already been recruited, and efforts are currently
underway to fill the remaining vacancies. In addition to the training of its
own staff, REB's current training program also provides training for the
PBSs' staff and for local construction and consulting firms which are engaged
in implementing the rural electrification program. Between July, 1978, and
April, 1981, REB trained 2,538 persons of various skills and categories in
148 training courses of 28 different types, all of which were designed and
supervised by external consultants. REB's training record to date and its
policy to develop necessary skills within other institutions involved in the
rural electrification program show that it maintains a training plan which is
effective.
47.     REB's project areas are selected on the basis of existing infrastruc-
tural facilities (power supply, roads and communications), and of population
and irrigation requirement, and aimed at equal regional distribution based on
intensive field data collection. The technical specifications of materials
and equipment of each scheme are prepared by REB and reviewed by its consult-
ants, who assist also in preparing tender documents and procurement proce-
dures. REB purchases all construction and support equipment, including



-14-
housewiring materials and other ancillary connection and maintenance equip-
ment, as well as central and regional storage facilities. REB also selects
specialized local consulting firms for the preparation of engineering
designs, construction plans, and construction supervision for each scheme,
all of which are executed under REB's supervision, assisted by its foreign
consultants. Construction of the primary and secondary distribution systems
is carried out by local contractors under supervision of REB regional staff
and local consultants. The number of competent firms currently involved in
REB's work is adequate for the present scope of the rural electrification
program.
48.     An evaluation cell has been established within REB to assess the
impact of completed rural electrification projects on the rural community,
and USAID is financing a study by the Dacca University Institute of Statisti-
cal Research and Training on a comprehensive and long-term evaluation of
rural electrification projects.  The terms of the study are satisfactory.
Palli Bidyut Samity (PBS) (Rural Electric Cooperative)
49.     Following approval of each scheme, based on detailed feasibility
studies, REB establishes a PBS for the sub-project area. Within every PBS
area, potential PBS directors are selected from local citizens (excluding
political office-holders), subject to the approval of the REB Board of Direc--
tors. The selected PBS directors submit to REB an application, along with
the proposed by-laws for registration of the PBS. After registration,
sign-up campaigns are organized by REB to promote PBS membership among
prospective electricity consumers. This approach has been successful and
experience with the recruitment of PBS directors and management staff has
been satisfactory. As of April 30, 1981, all the 13 PBSs established under
Phase I of the Program had been legally established with a total bonafide
membership of about 600,000.
50.     Any individual or organization resident in a PBS area may become a
member on payment of a membership fee of Tk5.00, either during the sign-up
stage or thereafter, by applying formally and being accepted by the Board of
Directors. PBS's members, in each annual meeting, may examine the Board of
Directors Annual Report, approve new projects or business, and elect one
third of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of a PBS consists of
10-15 members elected at its annual meeting on a region-wide basis. The
Board of Directors is vested with powers to formulate and adopt policies and
plans, promulgate rules and regulations for the management and conduct of the
organization, except for those matters specifically reserved for the REB or
the Members' Meetings.
51.     Assisted by its consultants,*REB has developed a typical organiza-
tional structure model for a PBS, including a description of the main func-
tions of each division and job specification for each post which is satisfac-
tory. The General Manager, appointed by the Board of Directors with approval



-15-
of REB, is the top executive. Four ma4n departments, each subdivided into
operational units, are responsible for extension and member services,
finance, construction and maintenance, and general administration, respec-
tively.
52.     The staffing situation in the five PBSs which were operational by
April 30, 1981, is reasonably satisfactory. About 50% of the existing vacan-
cies represent a shortage in one particular area of skill that includes
linemen, assistant linemen and line supervision. Accordingly, REB is
implementing an intensified training program to overcome shortages in these
areas. By end April 1981, 213 of PBSs' personnel and 263 of construction
firms' personnel had attended linemen training courses, and the training
program is being accelerated. Other vacancies are in less crucial dis-
ciplines for which gradual recruitment will suffice. Additionally, a large
number of staff have already been recruited for orientation and training.
53.     The main responsibilities of a PBS start after a scheme is completed
and handed over as their principal task is to supply consumers with elec-
tricity for household, industrial and agricultural use. Under the overall
guidance of REB, each PBS is responsible for initiating and implementing
local distribution system expansion with financial and technical assistance
from REB: purchasing electricity from the BPDB grid; undertaking consumer
connections; operating and maintaining transmission and distribution
facilities; undertaking meter-reading, billing and collection; fixing
tariffs, subject to the approval of REB; and providing technical and finan-
cial assistance to electricity consumers for wiring their premises and for
acquiring and installing their electrical appliances. The PBSs already
commissioned have been discharging these activities satisfactorily. In
addition, they have, using their own manpower and with REB approval, under-
taken system expansion and maintenance, involving expansions based on an
agreed minimum income per mile (Tk 12,000 or US$667 per mile per year for
single-phase lines, and Tk 18,000 or US$1,000 for three-phase lines) of
distribution line to be installed. This is consistent with the cost of
expansion of the basic distribution system as designed in accordance with
overall feasibility considerations.
54.     The PBSs enjoy a fair degree of autonomy within the overall guidance
of REB which maintains control over their formation and operation. REB has
already handed over completed area schemes to eight PBSs. A "Rate Cell" has
been created in REB for the study of PBS tariffs. The financial relationship
between REB and the PBS is defined in a "standard loan agreement", which
includes terms and conditions acceptable to different donors for the total
cost of each completed scheme, and each debt is secured by a mortgage.  REB
has made loans to the PBSs to finance their capital cost and working capital
requirements, and will be involved in the financing of each PBS's future
system expansion.



-16-
System Design
55.     Bangladesh has a predominance of three-phase systems in its distribu-
tion networks. As electrification is extended to the less densely populated
and lower income rural areas, possible means of keeping down the cost of
service, while continuing to assure both adequate and reliable service to the
consumers, have been examined. A study carried out by USAID-financed con-
sultants under Phase I of the rural electrification program, evaluated a
least-cost solution to be a combination of three-phase and single-phase
distribution, based on typical consumer needs (deep and shallow tubewells and
low-lift pumps for irrigation, bazaars, residential users and small
industries). Areas with lower concentrations of deep tubewells and
industrial loads show greater savings with predominantly single-phase lines
beyond the basic feeder system. These design standards will mark a sig-
nificant improvement over existing design systems in the rural areas. The
routing of most main primary circuits will be along improved roads but some
branch circuit construction will take place wheye vehicle or boat acces-
sibility is difficult. In the initial stage, lines will not extend much
further than 8 km from established roads or navigable water ways. Where
possible, low-voltage circuit poles would also be used for telecommunications
lines.
Achievements and Constraints
56.     As of October, 1981, eight cooperatives had been connected to the
grid under the ongoing USAID-financed program. With construction starting
in 1979, about 2,200 miles of primary and secondary line and 16 substations
had been fully constructed by September, 1981, and a further five substations
were close to completion. While it may be too early to judge connection
achievements, the response of potential consumers has been encouraging.
Applications for cooperative membership and payments of membership fees have
exceeded expectations with the demand for irrigation pump connections being
particularly strong. Actual connection of consumers, however, has been
slower than anticipated. This is partly due to a somewhat delayed construc-
tion schedule, and partly because of delays in the provision of complementary
inputs such as -electric pumps and motors, credit facilities for power-using
equipment and housewiring, and agricultural and industrial extension serv-
ices.
57.     GOB is taking steps to improve REB's overall performance through the
implementation of a training program, better distribution of pumps and
motors, and coordination.  USAID is-providing funds for the importation and
distribution of electric pumps and motors under its second project and is
also assisting in coordinating a rural industries development project wit.-
electrification. GOB also is addressing in advance, a number of potential
problems to assure the long-term efficiency of its rural electrification
program. First, since a large part of rural consumption will take place



-17-
during the peak hours, early measures will need to be taken to ensure better
load management and to formulate peak-reducing tariff structures to prevent
excessive demand at peak, particularly in irrigation and industry. Secondly,
an increasing number of electrical motors without a corresponding compensa-
tion device at each motor would increase unduly the needed generating
capacity in the system; this could easily be corrected through the use of
capacitors or high-power-factor motors. Appropriate clauses exist in con-
sumer contracts, and are beginning to be enforced. Thirdly, technical losses
and theft in the rural distribution system would need to be monitored closely
and kept in check, if heavy PBS financial losses are to be avoided. REB and
GOB are studying these issues and are taking first measures to avoid
problems. By October 31, 1982, GOB will submit a status report and action
program dealing with these matters.
Demand Forecast and REB's Investment Program
58.     The market potential appears good, as over 40% of households in the
existing 13 cooperative areas have signed up for connections. There is also
a large potential for electrifying irrigation pumps. GOB's stated plans for
a doubling of foodgrain production by FY85 would require an increase in
irrigated area from around 3.2 million acres in FY78 to about 7.2 million
acres in FY85 and involve a major increase in the number and use of irriga-
tion equipment. In FY80, about 96% of the existing 70,000 tubewells and
low-lift pumps in use were diesel-driven. This indicates a large replacement
potential based on cost savings which could result from the substitution of
imported diesel fuel as an energy source with electricity generated from
domestic natural gas. Because of this large potential demand, implementation
of REB's rural electrification program is likely to be constrained only by
REB's own implementation capacity and that of local contractors. Starting
from a fairly negligible base, peak demand and energy consumption in the
rural areas are expected to double each year between FY83 and FY86; growth is
expected to taper thereafter, to an annual rate of 16% by FY90. REB hopes to
cover most parts of the country (with the exception of thinly populated
areas) with 84 cooperatives by the early 1990's. Present es-timates put the
cost of the total program at Tk 20.1 billion (US$1.1 billion) in current
prices, of which about Tk 14.4 billion (US$800 million) will be the foreign
exchange component. For FY83-FY87, the bulk of the proposed project period,
REB's foreign borrowings are expected to amount to US$640 million, of which
only US$240 million (including the proposed IDA credit of US$40 million) has
so far been identified. REB would therefore need additional foreign financ-
ing of around US$516 million to permit implementation of its ACRE program
beyond Phase II of the program. Prospects for additional fund mobilization
are good, as donors' interest in the REB program remains strong.
External Assistance for the Rural Electrification Program
59.     Following an initial USAID contribution of US$70 million to finance
the implementation of the 13 cooperative areas under Phase I of the Program,



-18-
the USAID has approved an additional US$50 million to finance a second phase
development of the Program. The latter grant will finance goods and services
needed to implement four new cooperatives urder Phase II of the program, and
system expansions under Phase I. Of the above amount, US$13 million will
finance the cost of consultants' service for Phase II. In addition, the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) will provide US$29.6 mil-
lion to finance eight new PBS schemes. The proposed project covering seven
new PBS areas, and assistance from the Government of Finland to cover one
additional area, would complete the financing of Phase II. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) has also expressed interest in assisting with future
stages of the program.
IDA Assistance
60.     Credit 934-BD (Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project) in an
amount of US$28.0 million was approved in June 1979 and became effective on
November 20, 1979.  Project implementation has been slow and is currently
about 18 months behind schedule. This has been mainly due to the lack of
a sufficient number of capable BPDB staff to provide counterpart support to
the expatriate consultant recruited for the project management unit. The
delay in project implementation has also had a significant negative impact
on the disbursement of credit proceeds. It is expected that the appointment
of local consultants to provide engineering services, especially for the 11
kV and low voltage networks would strengthen BPDB's capabilities and improve
future performance. IDA has also recently proposed to the Executive Direc-
tors a credit to assist in the financing of an additional two 150 MW units of
base load supply at Ashuganj.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.     The proposed Rural Electrification project, prepared by the REB with
assistance from the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, was
appraised by a Bank mission which visited Bangladesh in May/June 1981. A
report entitled: "Bangladesh - Staff Appraisal Report - Rural Electrification
Project" No. 3728b-BD, dated May 14, 1982 is being distributed separately.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April, .1982. -'The Bangladesh delega-
tion was led by Brigadier Sabihuddin Ahmed, Chairman of the Rural Elec-
trification Board. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex
III.
Project Objectives and Description
62      The proposed project would be implemented over a six-year development
period (1982-1988) and would include:



-19-
(a) the installation of new electricity distribution networks in
the seven selected areas; and
(b) the rehabilitation of limited existing distribution systems
operated by BPDB and their integration into the new systems
in the above areas.
63.     The seven PBS areas (see attached maps) would comprise Dacca II,
Faridpur II, Noakhali II, Chittagong II, Khulna II, Barisal II, and Kushtia
II. REB will be responsible for implementing the proposed project through
the use of trained local consultants and contractors, both of which are in
adequate supply. Organization of the necessary PBSs will commence in each
of the seven selected areas with the start of detailed design works. Upon
commissioning, each PBS's Board will be responsible for load promotion,
organizing sign-up campaigns, hiring of PBS's staff and planning of opera-
tions.
Cost Estimates
64.     Total project costs, including duties and taxes, are estimated at
US$64.3 million, of which US$40.0 million would be in foreign exchange. Cost
estimates are based on unit prices at early CY1982 levels and adjusted to
reflect the following price contingencies: 8% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in
1984, 7% in 1985, 6% in 1986, for imported goods, local labor, and services.
Fifteen percent in 1982 and 1983, 13% in 1984, 12% in 1985, and 11% in 1986
for local materials. About 70% of project cost is expected to be in imported
materials and equipment. Physical contingencies of 7.5% have been allowed to
provide for unforeseeable factors.
Financing
65.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 36 million (US$40 million equivalent)
would finance about 70% of total project costs, excluding duties and taxes,
equivalent to 100% of foreign exchange costs, covering the cost of: conduc-
tors; poles and crossarms; insulators; distribution transformers; connection
materials; complete substation equipment; switchgear; assorted line and
substation accessories; and selected support equipment such as vehicles,
spares, tools, and mini computers. GOB would finance the balance of project
costs, estimated at US$24.3 million, including US$7.6 million in duties and
taxes from its national budget. To ensure prompt provision of budgetary
funds and the hiring of project staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/
by the Borrower would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a)
of the draft DCA).
1/ An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for the
release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-20-
Onlending Terms
66.     GOB would onlend the entire proceeds of the proposed credit to REB
for 30 years including 5 years of grace; during the grace period the interest
rate, which would be capitalized, would be 0.75% per annum; during the 25
year repayment period the interest rate would be 2% per annum. GOB would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The completion of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment, satisfactory to IDA, between GOB and REB would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft DCA). REB
would transfer the assets of each completed scheme to the concerned PBS on
the basis of a loan which would include a repayment period of 25 years com-
mencing on the same date as the repayment period for the onlending from GOB
to REB. Interest during the repayment period would be 3% per annum; during
the grace period an interest rate of 0.75% would be charged, but capitalized.
The submission to IDA of a satisfactory model sub-loan Contract between REB
and the PBS's would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c)
of the draft DCA).
67,     The proposed onlending rates to the final borrowers are well below
the medium-term domestic inflation rate of around 11% per annum. However,
based on BPDB's existing bulk tariff and the PBS's retail tariff, the PBS's
would not--have the financial capacity to pay an interest rate higher than 3%
per annum without increasing PBS's tariffs to levels considerably higher than
BPDB's rates to non-rural consumers. The appropriate levels of both bulk and
retail tariffs in the power sector, which would be based on long-run marginal
cost principles, are to be the subject of future studies (paragraphs 77 and
78). GOB has indicated its willingness to review with IDA appropriate
onlending rates for future projects provided the PBS's will be able to serv-
ice higher rates of interest. In the meantime., the proposed onlending rates
from GOB to the REB and from the REB to the PBS's are in line with the
onlending rates applied in other rural electrication projects in Bangladesh
and are higher than the grant arrangements under the ongoing USAID assisted
scheme. They can also be justified for the present in the context of GOB's
efforts to promote rural electrification as a new venture.
Procurement
68.     REB would procure all materials and equipment for use under the
proposed project, and award detailed design and construction contracts to
local distribution consultants and contractors.  The proposed credit proceeds
would finance the cost of imported materials and equipment. REB would invite
bids, using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, for the
estimated requirements of materials in four tranches in FY82 and FY83.
Bangladesh manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of 15%, or the
prevailing rate of customs duty, whichever is less. The procurement proce-
dures for project materials to be procured with GOB's own resources are
satisfactory, including those for the allocation of contracts for the design



-21-
and construction of distribution systems to local consultants and contrac-
tors.
Disbursement
69.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against full
documentation covering: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment; and (ii) 100% of local expenditures, ex-factory, for
locally manufactured equipment. Disbursements by IDA would begin in the
first quarter of FY84. The rate of disbursement is somewhat faster than the
typical rate experienced in power projects, running about 2 years ahead of
the typical profile. This is based on experience with the ongoing first
USAID project, and is due to the nature of the proposed project as part of
REB's established ongoing construction program.
REB's Financial Performance and Objectives
70.     Since none of the schemes started under Phase I of the program had
been completed or handed over to PBSs by end FY80, and all capital funds
disbursed (Tk 533 million) over the period FY78-FY80 were considered as work
in progress, the actual financial statements of REB for FY78-FY80 do not
provide a reliable basis for assessing its financial performance during the
period. For the financing of Phase I of the program, REB was provided with a
grant of Tk 702 million by GOB to cover local expenditures and an amount of
US$70 million (of which US$34 million was a grant) from the USAID to cover
the cost of foreign goods and services.
71.     Since the assets of each completed scheme are handed over to each
PBS on the basis of a long-term loan, with REB being allowed an interest
spread even though it receives part of its capital as grant, REB's financial
situation should improve with the commencement of loan repayments by the
PBSs. Loan repayments by the PBSs for schemes completed under Phase I of the
program are due in FY82 and while actual figures are not yet available, it is
expected that REB's total spread will be sufficient to cover its administra-
tive exDenses and interest on borrowings starting from FY82, and have an
increasing net income, thereafter. In addition, REB is authorized to receive
funds in grants from GOB to cover REB's administrative expenses. GOB would,
as and when required, cover any deficit derived from REB's operation under
the proposed project (--rtion 3.02(e)(ii) of the draft DCA).
REB's Performance Criteria
72.     To ensure REB's satisfactory financial performance, GOB will cause
REB to adjust its onlending rate charged to all PBSs to ensure that (i) its
administrative expenses and interest payments in any financial year commenc-
ing in FY86 shall not exceed a maximum of 75% of the aggregate interest and
other revenues received from all sources during that financial year; and
(ii) its internal sources of funds, including PBS loan repayments, in any



-22-
financial year, would cover no less than 1.5 times its debt service require-
ment (Section 3.02(d)(i) of the draft DCA and 4.03(a)(i) and (ii) of the
draft Project Agreement).
REB's Accounts and Audit
73.     REB, assisted by USAID-financed consultants, has developed a system
of accounting which is based on accrual of revenues and expenses and provides
for property accounting, cost and budgetary control, and satisfactory means
for management information, and is in conformity with sound accounting prac-
tices. Implementation of the accounting system is being supervised by REB's
consultants who are also undertaking the training of local staff.
74.     Although REB's audited accounts for FY80 had not been completed in
time for project processing, REB's audit reports for FY78 and FY79 revealed
that the reports undertaken by the Comptroller and Auditor-General are of a
Government-type, focussing primarily on the conformity of expenditures with
required regulations and with little emphasis being placed on issues usually
addressed in a commercial-type audit. REB would appoint an independent
auditor, satisfactory to the Association, to prepare and furnish to the
Association, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of its audited financial statements, including the audited
reports and comments thereon (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
PBS Financial Requirements and Performance Criteria
75.     Since the equity and borrowing capacities of PBSs are limited, REB
would make available to the PBSs: (i) adequate amounts of short-term finance
as working capital; and (ii) the funds needed by PBS members, as credit, for
the purchase of basic electrical appliances and house-wiring (Section 4.05(b)
of the draft Project Agreement). In order to ensure the financial viability
of PBSs, GOB would during the first five years of each PBS's operation cover
any difference between the cost of electricity supply and the amount charged
to each PBS (see paragraph 77 below). In addition, REB would ensure that
(i) commencing in the sixth year of its operation, each PBS earns revenues
sufficient to cover the cost of its electricity purchases, administrative
expenses, and depreciation and interest expenses (Section 4.04(b)(i) of the
draft Project Agreement); (ii) commencing in the seventh year of its opera-
tion, each PBS generates a surplus cash flow equivalent to, at least, 20% of
its capital expenditures (Section 4.04(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agree-
ment); and (iii) each PBS pays promptly to BPDB the amounts due for elec-
tricity purchases in a timely manner to ensure that unpaid consumption, at
any time, does not exceed the total billed consumption for the preceding two
month period (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement).



-23-
PBS Accounts and Audits
76.     A system of accounts has been developed by REB's consultants, and
is being applied by the existing PBSs. REB would ensure that the existing
system is implemented by the PBSs established under the proposed project.
REB also would ensure that the accounts of each PBS are audited by an inde-
pendent auditor, satisfactory to the Association, and submit for the Associa-
tion's review, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of each PBS's audited financial statements and audited
report (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Bulk Tariff
77.     In October 1980, GOB approved a tariff structure for BPDB's con-
sumers, including a bulk tariff of Tk 0.78/kWh for the PBSs. However, the
PBSs may not be in a position to pay this and future bulk tariffs in the
initial years of their operation because: (i) it is significantly higher than
BPDB's subsidized retail tariff to its urban consumers, thereby creating
problems in areas where BPDB's supply and that of a PBS are in immediate
proximity; and (ii) the rate is based on the unacceptably high system losses
of BPDB, thereby unduly increasing the cost of electricity supply by BPDB.
Accordingly, GOB would pay, within the first five years of each PBS's opera-
tion, any differences between the cost of electricity supply and the amount
charged to each PBS, according to their financial capabilities on the basis
of a formula, satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(c) of the draft
DCA). GOB would pay any amounts due to REB for transfer to the concerned
PBSs. GOB also would design, no later than December 31, 1982, and implement
thereafter, a method for the calculation of the bulk tariff, satisfactory to
the Association, which shall reflect the long-run marginal cost of supplying
such electricity (Section 3.02(b) of the draft DCA).
PBSs Retail Tariffs
78.     Each of the existing PBSs has its own tariff which is based on a
formula developed by REB with the assistance of its consultants. The formula
is acceptable in principle and would cover, after the first five years of
operation, the cost of power supplied to PBS consumers based on the agreed
bulk tariff. An immediate rural tariff increase is not warranted because
recovery from rural domestic consumers is already significantly above urban
domestic levels. The best revenue evidence so far is the collection by Dacca
I PBS, the first energized PBS. The PBS recovered about Tk 1.10/kWh
(US$0.06/kWh) in FY81. In other recently energized PBSs, recovery ranges
from Tk 0.90 to Tk 1.10/kWh (US$0.05-0.06/kWh). The marginal cost of power
supply to the rural system at 33/11 kV is estimated to be about Tk 1.2/kWh
(US$0.07/kWh) in border price terms, and about Tk 1.60(US$0.09/kWh) in domes-
tic terms, as compared to the current approved bulk tariff of Tk 0.78/kWh



-24-
(US$0.04/kWh). This would imply a marginal cost of about Tk 1.80-2.30/kWh
(US$0.10-0.13/kWh) in domestic terms at the retail level. A too rapid
approach towards marginal cost levels for rural consumers, however, is not
advisable because categories of consumers that form the bulk of PBS member-
ship are significantly cross-subsidized in the BPDB system by industrial
consumers and because there is need for an initial promotional approach in
the rural areas to provide a potential for a reasonable return on investment.
A bulk tariff formula incorporating marginal cost considerations (para 77
above) will automatically lead to a gradual approach towards retail tariff
levels comparable to long-term marginal cost. GOB also would, no later than
December 31, 1984, carry out a study, satisfactory to the Association, of the
bulk and retail tariffs to be applied in the power sector, taking into
account the long-run marginal cost of supplying electricity and other finan-
cial considerations; and no later than July 1, 1985 implement a tariff struc-
ture based on the recommendations of such study, taking into account the
comments of the Association (Section 3.02(a) of the draft DCA). Until the
study's findings are implemented, the average PBS tariffs will not be less
than the average BPDB tariffs (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
Project Justification
79.-    The cost comparison of electricity and major present non-electricity
energy sources for rural applications, taking into account all costs incurred
by consumers as well as the supply authorities (valuing the energy input at
estimated long-run marginal cost of the integrated system after interconnec-
tion of the two separate grids), yields a clear cost advantage for all uses
of electricity. Costs are assumed to include initial and subsequent REB and
PBS investment, operation and maintenance expenditures by PBSs, the long-run
marginal cost of energy supply to the PBS area at the 33/11 kV substation,
and the initial and recurring costs incurred by consumers. Benefits are
defined as the avoided initial and recurring costs of the non-electric alter-
native (yielding the same output), suitably adjusted to reflect declining
valuation of energy inputs with increasing consumption. The base case,
reflecting a realistic split of incremental demand between replacement and
generated consumption, yields a rate of return of about 11%. The true
economic rate of return is likely to be significantly higher, as additional
benefits such as the remainder of consumer surplus, production-related
indirect economic benefits of electrification, and unquantifiable benefits of
improvement of quality of life in rural areas are not taken into account.
Beneficiaries and Affordability
80.     A survey in the first energized PBS yielded evidence that 85% of
domestic connections were taken up by middle and upper income group
households in the village while only 15% were accounted for by lower-income
families. About 50% of connected consumers had a monthly consumption low
enough to pay only the minimum charge of Tk 15/month (US$0.83). This minimum



-25-
charge, however, represents 3-4% of the low-income group's monthly income: a
significant increase for this group may mean economic hardship. The income
share of the electricity bill for the better-off consumers amounts to about
1-3%. These amounts exclude other consumer costs of electricity such as
housewiring. In irrigation pumping, the average electricity bill represents
about 8% of total expenditure. A gradual increase in this amount could
easily be accommodated by farmers, although a sudden substantial increase may
decrease farmer's margins excessively. Landless laborers in the rural areas
would benefit indirectly through increased employment opportunities.
Risks
81.     The proposed project would involve the usual risk of delay in
implementation encountered in projects of this type mainly due to the present
shortage of skilled line construction staff. However, it is expected that
the situation would improve as a result of REB's ongoing intensive linemen
training program which is being implemented with USAID assistance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Rural Electrification Board, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit include:
(i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and the Rural Electrification Board (paragraph 66); (ii) the submis-
sion of a model Sub-loan Contract between REB and the PBSs (paragraph 66);
and (iii) the approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 65).
84.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 26, 1982                                                  by Moeen Qureshi
Washington, D.C.



-26 -
Annex 1
Page I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICUnTURAL       97.3              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                    30.0        50.0       90.0               232.3                    1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..        32.0/e    40.8               499.4                     1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88934.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1           7.6       10.8                17.3                      40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       371.5        473.0     617.6               153.6                      373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         702.2     888.6               360.3                    2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.3      43.5                37.4                      39.8
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         51.0      53.9                59.2                      56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          2.7       2.6                 3.5                        3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.4        3.0                2.1                        2.3
URBAN                               3.6          6.3       6.8                 3.4                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.2         47.6       43.5               27.7                       29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.5        19.9       15.7                10.2                       7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5         3.1        2.8                2.5                        1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       8.9                20.4                       44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          106.0        101.0      88.0               107.1                      123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         85.0      91.0                98.6                     112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         43.0      58.5                56.9                       62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0          9.0       9.0                14.2                       19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.9         23.5       18.7               14.6                        4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6          44.9      48.8                57.7                       64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               *-       153.0      130.0               89.1                       50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        45.0      53.0                30.1                      45.9
URBAN                                ..         13.0      15.0                65.8                       68.0
RURAL                                 ..        47.0      55.0                20.1                       34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         6.0       5.0                17.6                       53.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..      40.0                71.0                       71.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 4.8                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN               ..       8427.2/c  8775.0              3857.7                    4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..     91872.9   56876.6              6411.8                     2229. 7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..      6610.0/d  4402.0              1132.8                      588.5
URBAN                                 ..          ..     637.6               322.3                      579.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..   23754.3              5600.5                     1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.9/c      5.9
URBAN                                ..          6.1/e     6.1
RURAL                                 ..         5. 9/e    5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  .
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                            3. 0|
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVR.AGES
- KOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCO11E                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      72.0                85.9                      99.8
MALE                  66.0         68.0      103.0                94.4                     100.6
FEMALE                26.0         34.0       40.0                64.5                     98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      22.0                 38.0/as                  53.5
MALE                  14.0         29.0       32.0                34.6/7aa                  58.4
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                18.0/aa                   48.6
VOLATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 3.8                      21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0      44.0                 32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6/f       23.0       26.0                52.8                      86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THJOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                  1.7                     12.7
RADIO RECElVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          6.0       6.0                 35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.4                  3.7                     50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        4.3                14.6                    106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                 3.4                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6        23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.4                 29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9      74.0                 69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5      11.0                 14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7       35.3                39.7                     40.2
MALE                                  58.7         55.9       56.5                51.5                     49.8
FEMALE                                11.4         11.9       12.7                23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/1         16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g         42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/           7.9/h     8.d7T.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.N9          i9.67        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LSs PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                 ..           ..     139.0                134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     111.0                111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LERAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    249.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    234.3
ESTLM1ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                                 ..           ..      86.0                 41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0                 51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China Included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   kegistered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates which is
shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $120 (at 1978-80 prices) and
90199 thousand.
May, 1981



- 28-Annex I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note    bnog    b  dn   n  drea   fros seanes generally todged nbc c-e  s-thoritano    an-d reliable  bei  ebood also- Be flo    th                           551,y
onnlorall   c-np-rblr becara   of thn inche   anaa.dardlaed  dnf  nion    n   rest   ed  ydfeen    soti-                         nrler            h ban. lbs d-   -re,
damles, oetsif.   - deecrbs order  of sgid,indi-an   creds, sod obhesnero- ceronto vae  drffere-oes bnteenoaine
lb rfeene grac rs am (1 cb  sascctry grosp             h b  sob eon. .a.n-ry -sd (2) aourygrosp nish  -annahan  b~gbhr  --enag   Scoe n'an nhbc cnes..ly gr-op
of ee sblnn coonr  (ncoorforCapoal   ocpos  ll toponer" grcp   ber  'siddle Incoe Nov50 Attiea cod Middieben              sbon
soboosesa   oflt   n)            e   b  r trongopdn  Sb  aenaeser - pcpltn    clhe                                ancmasfreo   nbao  and shown. sni  senr.e
IdOlil4nboasand  seine.)                                                                        epcIierhr SoaS  fr Ned - nata, orban,sd h ars -1   Peserto    eni
Toal-Nea  srac    re    errilg  ad   ra  o  Ilndwans                                            rhn  adsoal  ecdd  y- berrsrcic   nserri_s__e  bd
LAND PEECAIT (tS - N pscplc sracsscrrr    renpie,cbds   en are--dcc irceded.i                                                             uaalbaspisi,   b             -ene F.I-oind    Iseis
ocand  p  sa -cnr-    e  e             1-hddas Po .dSank ArIas. (1--9bnali ,ads dra  cnsrs1 non perd anensip -                                n-fd-d b  e-pb-etca h. sn byt
190f  ndi-       -sra                                                                                   eia   sinc    nsrke-s , nhidw-Sfeie,f e_nr197)d.shicI offert'R-  in-pssi ec acrsa
tate  an  free Ide sh.c litn   csao  medica- l-faiiiee.   fani-           fat1e-
19ic70p -d blgan    ica  sori                  pe1rp79;100,190.co  179cetes. ipri" ie   boepina ere  _s Isd  only aides  tni-.
data.CNS=O   PR                                                                                        hdlesn1 per -asic-     Sd-      Tona,l. s-mbesa  adinsions...n or ,diecbseg
-d 14g, ite. p,,,o   ""t   ..d h,d              h:                             ,d ~~~~~~rombeialI-bedb   b  ea-he  nfWbed.'    Ie
POPULATION ANl VITAL STATISTICS
Tnna  -opoi-ter  Mil-bear ~(nhbo...s) - As of J             1; 1960, 1970, a-   iId199              OSOIOli
dare                                                                                              Aneano SloeI cE dnsbl   rrsc   e   estnd       oa,ara,adcnl
Iran.p,1lisc. aossaRaal       aS   ofJ.n.ocra   oilne;                                                 h -saehle cr  isec  egop  Stdiod-ale ebe chars linn   qatnre
difaetdioilo    frbesaenna  sferl ce-prailisy of  dta                                                sad teir natn  eals  1.A boadel        o  ld-   r  apr      st-  _ee  he  1oredd Er
asncstr             01  1071, and 1070 da.ta                                                         th -ihebld fr stateistica   parle.ts
P.proli..e Prajoenienatrg abr of person  cer  r s-no                                                                                                                 __n ndntl - coeragenm--
Posann  i   er 1009 -Caenpopolatlen prejenieno1 am  Nosed  -nloe                                 o r pesco  perrosI  eli arbac. and  --re  -o-pied r,entnional
rorol cepolevi-o by apc so.d ae  -ed thsfc  _orsALip  n  fasolel inytrs.dIlbes  rseeil.Swl D-                                           nigs  -eni de.ncprsee   tatresd
loglif  eneests  _ n  bo    I o rssn   sinb z-anny' 5 paoc-pitneic.or.teaehlnllr    erntfdeogl- Eele. arh... an.s.                                                        e
-lerl  and inside lifeececac    -cblsi               s  77.51 peare.  ebo pars-                      ggenectien_   dasiegs-  ath e                LeetpI  living qsnr  na per--ntge
--ar  for fercilit   rc  as           i  t-ta- lvlaa.igdcrnoof tonl, arias, cod intrl d-1 irg   respectinnp.
ferItiny -edoting no ine-sa lovo   -d pass lastly pilns   aromne
.ah constep  is than a Sged, ace of  hbese leAs   ebnaosa  mraiy                             PICT
an   ertility stande  or orojeose    p .rae.                                                  Ad,andTrllenPse
Stationay ooralnisr - la  sestiosty poplaile these isnoe granh sines                    Prieery seba-I   ta..maeed female - Oross  -e,  mlean  femal
the, hinnb rsr is rqsel slte ld.eah rats, asd alco  hb  se......arere-erelimesc llt                                       ages at. th e primary Isoec  prengee at rnp-ti-e
mac   enenn      Ie is arie.ed only afnnr fenll lt y  -ane. dei.es t.                            pri-arp  eth-n-age  pvaat s;nomlly ione  abilt're   aged S-il
heerelees l       el    -iaf   v   -op-da-tion rats,  bhc  -ha  gyean-n er  ban  Vedased fo    lfeeeontlesgfbhsf pralay edsvatic; foe
tEsmnrpae    ah eeny                     h   sccappplto    tssecseissr  nsh                                                 ne  edoete   eslsennpenedil  wo
-sci-tcd entie basis a  nf p-raonod   hateo-ertenes  fteppln                                         since  -oe pspils are bes- or  b-nes hr  ffit.is   etbeat ege.
Sr nhe pear 2lOf, ad thr rats of declIne of ferriil y rten  to r-place-                            Sene.dary seai     ea             a edoc  fessls  - Cepated as ab-n; es-edary
none level.                              -Tey            .,ll  .                                      ed-can-nregsl.es an Icen f-ar ysecs of approved prlssry insteset int;
Y_asaiecpnalnoitecnI                           Tepa alsi-aieayIoplnisprovides geseral, vonanic..el, nrtare   nrnntg    srse.itee  far PsP"'
si-s bc,e br-nrahed.                                                                                  sealy If y1 .r7 ear  ataof               ssepnso   c esae g.-esarl
Pnpslnnien laselny                                                              enelu~~~~~~~-Ided.
Pe ka .  . - Mit-yotpo-     air  p-r ....t r.kileen-e   (lel heanas-s  t f                       tcaire   eoinn   eronp-denay   -Ietesiislntlt
crl are; 1990. 1970  1s 979 dens.                                                                 inest   s,ehbsiral, t.edstsiel,or5bcpnas  skIr.. tt            seh teineph
rtsq. An..arosnca          Ted - Canptad as above far agriralneral lasesyasa  deatmentsl ef s-sedery isi                                                   es
ap;1990. 1970 -so 1978 d-an.                                                                    Peytl-neshbnr reia  - primasy. end .....ndary -           nt l.. Iteerled in
Popoaslo  hasStratuew(percent) - Childnas (0-14 year), working-age (15-                            primary scd leendaoy inrels dIvided by eosbeel ftseest  tie
to Y.rl   n r     eotreld (65 ps--  stat ace) as poresstage.ela nid-y-r  .pap-                          etseeP-sdlnglenele.
larSon; 1990, 1970, sad 1979dana_                                                                    Atom  I(P,eee  eroe)-Littlere                       stains  (able1 en teed  ad arise)
pacaltecocSmash fact(corosne)   natal -  eos    g hwn  rates of etnl nit-                     asPernentg   of sae  ads Ipepalno    ge   lpas  n    n
peer peps1ianes fa ..d.50-9t. lOO-!o, end 19dPl-79.
P..eplnirren     Sc  (streant          -stes- Ass..Is  groeh vases of srban pays-                  COeSUssjTIeN
latlo-  for 1950-90, 1960-70  sd 1970-79.                                                          Pa..esees lace (per ehe..sand peta-asfe) -Pa"eege  osre '-rn              ":iesc
loads Siltb t,ee  (err sh-assdi - annasl IIv  birlveb   ee-   h.....s  of sit--er                       e..e see.    less. thev  eight pereans; ensaee abelenree, beeres   n
pops-lanle; 1900, 1970. and 1079 dan.-                                                                            h iieys is
Credo Inasi Sans (per nbeoe..od) - An...el Seenhe Per tbnos.s. s od f mId-peer                        Eadi. RseetnersIs  shasoo  sosem                    i ypsa It  "Icei-eve  far aetna
Ppop tic-eo   196( 970 Ie, act l979 dssa                                                              hr   lrsetneerIpslt'  pthnousad efppelettn; ecee   n
brasscapraactietansA__cags  -sabe  of da-ehte-ssnno   ill bear is                                li-ease.d  -enelvee   i. countries  -sd in yearses renee-a    frdi
bar    r n   ..a . reedies-epeid hifek  snpsrienele  Pee....n  ege-spectte   r-set   acet  effect; dese fsr resent  y-ese  may sat be ne-P.e.al  ne
tcliSty rae;aial   ieyrraes.scdn   Is 1969, 1d70, and 1979.                                          m  ecsntsastbd1iesig
EasilyPluoncr - Aeeanots horsa  (slsaende)-A a..os  vem.ber of an-pesre                 TR..eatnre  ce  tbcadevlten)    TI teesio-e  far brodatn
Tf bieb--ce -Io dances aider sayl-e  of ostiere   Eaiypannpernbese    ihii  p.er  hsat                                                     a-in;ecse ioLeetn-d Trees.rer
invil  Plile       eri      pso- oc-f s.~iarid a--a) -eressn-ge ef tnrited                             onnoSeadi   ss   ce r              r...e...sins atT           afs  fet
nOsOnof oild-iarlo     gs(15- 1  years) ann.n  ils-csol  aSesc                                SeNspa-  r  lc, lanhw eecbca andp                     e)-loShe    tEe a-erage aSs-
alnrid a'-s  Insm ngs grooP.                                                                    celattes sO  'daIly ge..ec-1 inse- ssee-t         er,dafised a    peviet
pabli-tsi- dscnnd primetily ent.rta                eea  sews.  It is coe_ired
P005) AMl MUEMCON%                                                                                        tobtdal    f-napev n                     Ioe   foss t      -ce esse.
aides ci Ped Prodaciec. pan  arita (199-7li10l)- Isden ad Psr Cepin  son--1            Cinem  Awnas Asetawd.es Per Caries per Tee-Sese.d se tEe ember of
Predenbec  5 allfood  -e odsise-.  heed-ti- e-edee send nod fesed and                                 ticket  saId darisg she fess, incladisgndsti_ies to driceis  tea
is o  aelvolr pas  bets    nrdnI_one  psiary gsede (e.g' negrt.a.                                   as  mobilie aoia..
fnts -c S-es)n-ioh-ees d iblea -de       -slasn iwneel  (e.S.o-ffeeaot
sea are  n         ae)     ggregans p-do-cc- of nach cne- p  s  esdy ILAiOR PFCRC
caci-en    n_,ae ncodaor price neighs; Id6l-Si, 1975  and 1979 dene.Callbohst                                              h......ts   E-.osei-ally amine persons, i,,latin
Paepn  saplr  f  clol- (reoceec ofCrciawc) - inp ds fr..ars  fsress   snesploed Est enolding be.eesloe,   _nstets,et.
sieyesclsnc aSf-co  feed  -uppliss or blki  is "retY per caiaencr   epoano    l   ges.  DefSci"ta                                                  Le in c       .i.i ce rie   see
Pr lap.-  Available  -spplOa-  cospeisa         doenia  rde.    w    set   esnnsprbe    95                                       Iad57    aa
apres hatekmnrs_ se _hwnspcli_  _nolds aninel fend,  -wde,                                     Psae  srew)-Peaetaa   ocea errceae  Ental.  leb-  fer-e
qcencini- ae-d Sn feedlpe nn,sd lasses in dinnlribs.le . Eqoirs-leelar                                            ses   -lbr fare Sn fersn, fore....Y' batts  end
-rrseesintsd  by PAD bssnd so  hybyslelgi-al e-o   for o-nma  aes                            fiehieg as pern."esge  5 tosl.  laber (sreas; 19E0, 1970 sed INdds
vtn   at bslt,  ooi7aia  snbccnsoa  nspsases-be-    nig-s,eg                             Twdss-ry Iveseest I- Labor force Snvnn. wer ie    naeoe  w
asdscdao'hee--pepaanie,toal_a'lole    erosrf-Ianet                                          cdevrinity, sentest-  gaase-net.seel                       eilbrfsn   9
ha.s-cld  las   l9Ool pa  1070, and 7YPPdeta.                                                      175 and 1979 dane.
Per- ot -1esp   aprsn(gaeprdi -Poei                               ntnofercia                       PersnlnainelS ene(erew -naa                  -mle, srd fasl-I.P-nicipantes  cv
cecapIy elf-ead p- day   Nan ...oply ef fool is drfinnd as shoe,.  Es-                           nenitiyetereesae    sntl    aI,attsl e                                 force a
-sirae-e-  far-     acle.-  e      -ese 1bished Op Idle prerids Ear ri,,lno                        prroeenete  If nasal,laI end 'e-mlw   ae ioeel   gersepetirely;
alI     _oe f 90 e an"e aS tei   prenain pot d~ay act tO Scans of  -nim    ad1960. 1970, se   9197  dan.  These as  hPen  on Ill's  persiespantn  -ate.
piesprn-     s  at n9 -K 10 gras  sh-ldi be  _inl pr hnwis            Ibee ead-                   rsflspt tag age-e     tatosa  thEw pepsI.is-e, set Incg  siwwnrd.  A
arts se  loner th. shone co 75 grime of  -nn  prctein and 23 grass of                              few swtiann  ewe foom  ntsni ... no..ree..
ripe   free  nnmlt1 end peie-  in grnos Par day; l961-6o, 1970 end 1377 dsa.                   INSIbOE eISTRtIBTcN
lhi,d(ats       4) Mo-'li-sRSa'e(prne, en..oad) -acn..aldeatsort                  --sadtI             Psr-entagso lPrivsts        _ lcs(ho-1, caieodcls~) -R--eesvdb'yslh
aeI  ro-r 1-0 years, to chile-e  lv  ibi  ag 'geP; fer mond-vlspine  -er-                             5 p.lenoni  oicbae   20 pre- s., pee-et 20 peveet. sod fr--es  4T pecen
trIos tans de--cd Irn   lo  tbls l         dfb196   1970 end 1979 dac_                                ef hnoesbhalds.
HEALTH                                                                                                POeRoiTo 'ARw--T GROIUPS
lie  npcscrpa  Orv   psrs      Aecg    -ib-r of   rear  of life r-nicisg                        The fsil-ing eteteasv~epcSaosaae   of  .?p-vw-t  Is-1,
InfntElsoic  cns(per tin-sad) - SAn..sI deahs of info,t.o sndev nsn year                         snestid h bse  ists  pavryleon,ine lee   Po   a  cps)     ransdraa 
af age pAr nb.n.e-d live birche.                                                                      Absaan  paenttom    ns  i   lnicsrlvl  eo   Ec        lia
be f P,opla (nss, srb-an, sd  -arl) aith rs ei  stss               -osfe                        flf.,d.bl-
-strsa.pcly  (i-eados  --tetd sorEfec  a.e-sn   or asece   bat scctamiwated                         Escimand Eslati- P-verty Iseal-l (US$ pew  -cpins) -aeba  and  -rnrl-
P        .an .i  o .nadeelh   ane  ocroett_enPlP              _      leneebfanahcRwayb                       -Irel lihadsweentftght          oowre-f-tln irn 1..rbwsge.P-.p'
ransiderrd  e Acing nlbic reasonbla access  f ohar Osse.  In tota  555e -it.nd                  ..c..ie . ef o  Abhae    nor  Inton i avel-  Svceos th cie
famIlY 5 sonar vents.g,er -     f   ,ig  ~   b-ar.l
pesn-ch... ef~,- chirfsacSr   ppoatas                       d ors   biepe-linay  thlooladsale1lb,-dl I)1                                                                        --
Oarlieee--lsoi ds .                                                                                                                                           Pa  19
Paobetis.1 perPiniia    -bPpa-         e  bOnde   by.1   numdber ef-p-adiop-g  phS
toralatac perNamingPere -r    -  P  deaian ioid b   p - sebe f  f p pret onlo hing~                                                                           18
malwesd fe-aag-sd-tensnr.es, pr-ti-I _.s..es,neenasawnaen



f
Annex I
29                                                          Page4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (X)          Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                       FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81          FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        11,989                 4.0       -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0       100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                  6,423                 3.1       -1.3        4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                     1,680                 7.9      -3.2         6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                     3,887                4.9         3.3        8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                      11,701                 4.4       -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8        99.1      97.6
Gross doriestic investment                         2,064               10.9      -10.9       20.2            6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports af goods & nfs                               859                0.8      -11.7        5.7          10.0         8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports cf goods & nfs                             2,635                8.8      -12.0        3.6           9.3       12.5        10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639               26.5      -17.7       -8.4           0.9         6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(million US$                                                        (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                         165.2                                                 40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                 59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
MerchandLse imports                                2,524.0                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                               342.4                                                 44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleaum                                         490.1                                                  3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                              580.0                                                 13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                           1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6       216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                        7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8       127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8      186.2       183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9        63.4       57.5       61.1        71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73      FY75      FY77    FY80      FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                            5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                        6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
'apital expenditure                                                        8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                          7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                            4.2        -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                 1.5        -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
= not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
75  Raw jtite, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, tXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                     Projected
FY74       FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78        FY79       FY80        FY81          FY82        FY83
Net exports of goods                                   -551     -1,050        -885        -454        -859       -946      -1,645     -1,813        -1,780      -1,938
Exports of goods                                      374         352        381         411         490        610         727         711           640        732
Imports of goods                                     -925      1,402      -1,266        -865     -1,349      -1,556     -2,372      -2,524        -2,420      -2,670
Net exports of services                                 -21          12         -24        -29         -32         -27          3          11           -70       -120
Workers- remittances                                      19         34          62          81        113         143        210         377           400         450
Current account balance                                -553      -1,004        -847       -402        -778       -830    -1,432       -1,425        -1,450    -1,608
Direct private investment                                                        ..          ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..
MLT loans (net)                                         276         498         498        238         398        420         581         481           501
Grants & grant-like flows                                174        382         245        265         393         553        591         616           650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                                45         275          52        -20         -38        -19         141         304           199
Change in reserves (- = increase)                         58       -151          53        -81          25       -124         119          24           100        -
International reserves (end of period)                  115         266         213        294         269         393        274         250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year             0.98        2.52        2.95       2.62        2.07        1.99       1.30        1.24          0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79        FY80         FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       173.8        382.3        244.7       264.8        392.6        553.2        590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      287.4        518.9        563.5       268.3        435.3        476.8        631.4        531.0
Concessional                                        201.4       458.4        533.0        244.1        400.8        456.4       601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4        342.8        389.9        144.0        261.9       212.6        272.7        255.2
IDA                                               51.0        112.5        127.8         86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1        170.9
Other multilateral                                  -            3.1        15.3         14.1         50.7         91.3       176.9         83.4
Non-concessional                                     86.0         60.4         30.4        24.1         34.5         20.4         29.8         21.4
Official export credits                            40.6        45.2         16.5          5.6          1.7          3.3         16.8         2.0
I BRD
Other multilateral                                  5.4          0,3          1.1         0.5          0.5          0.1          0.3          0.8
Private                                            40.0         14.9        12.8         18.0         32.3         17.0         12.7        18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8             1,352.6     1,795.9      2,051.5      2,569.2      2,949.2     3,215.6      3,584.8
Official                                            383.3     1,232.8      1,689.0      1,939.8      2,435.6     2,808.3      3,068.8      3,462.1
IBRD                                                -          54.9         54.9         54.9         54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9
IDA                                              105.6        255.3        379.8        465.9       554.2        706.7        858.8      1,028.5
Other                                             222.8       922.6      1,254.3      1,419.0      1,826.5     2,046.7      2,155.1      2,378.7
Private                                             109.5        119.8       106.9        111.6        133.6        140.9        146.8       122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                      580.8      1,019.4        947.5     1,015.8      1,335.4      1,659.1      1,716.7     2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Totalde=bt service payments                            18.0 '       31.3         87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1         93.7         92.0
Interest                                              7.3         10.1        21.9         28.4         32.1         38.1         43.3        42.0
Payments as % of export earnings                        4.8          8.9         22.9         14.2         14.1        15.6         12.9         12.9
Payments as Z of GNP                                    0.2          0.2          1.2          0.9          0.8         1.0          0.8          0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)                   3.2         2.0          1.7          1.6          1.5          1.4         1.4          1.6
Official                                              2.9          2.0          1.6          1.5         1.3          1.4          1.2          1.5
Private                                               5.1          2.3          7.8          6.4         6.2          6.1          6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                  26.1         35.5         41.6         40.1         37.7        35.9         33.6         35.9
Official                                             28.3         35.8        42.2         40.8         38.6         36.3         34.2         36.2
Private                                              13.3         15.3         11.3        11.0          9.5         14.8         19.3         18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (5)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      -            4.0                       2.6          2.1          1.8         1.7          1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    -            -            1.8          5.6          4.8         4.1          3.7          4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                      21.4         18.8         21.1         22.7        21.6         24.0         26.7         28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements            17.7         21.7         22.7         32.1         20.3        32.0         24.0         32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                     1.3          3.1          2.5          5.3          5.4         4.6          6.0          7.3
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (5)
Maturities due within 5 years                                             13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                            36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (5)
Interest due within first year                                             1.6
- not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Lcoan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                       -      14.00      0.68
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)             -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -      7.50      1.00
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -     20.00      6.80
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -     62.00      3.53
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -     15.00      4.08
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -     27.00    13.45
60)5    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation               -     22.00      8.34
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00      4.24
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -     16.00      6.44
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -     25.00      3.90
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -     16.00      3.14
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -     21.00    12.25
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -     10.00      3.86
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -      5.00      2.42
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -     21.00    14.17
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -     25.00    19.41
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -      7.00      3.72
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -      6.00      2.25
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -     19.00    14.33
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -     10.00      5.80
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -      6.00      5.20
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -     25.00    21.00
9'21    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II  -        32.00    29.12
9:34    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -     28.00    27.60
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -     22.00    11.96
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    23.21
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -       10.00      8.89
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -       50.00      2.84
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -       37.00    21.94
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -          20.00    19.39
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    28.84
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    16.22
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -        11.00    10.32
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -       25.00      1.74
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    37.25
1065   1981   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -       35.00    34.70
1071   1981   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -       65.00    17.70
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -       85.00    72.20
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    20.20
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -       50.00    49.90
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -        16.00    16.00
1140   1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -        18.00    18.00
1147   1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -       40.00    40.00
1184/b 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    27.00
1194   1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -      100.00   100.00
1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
1205/b 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -       27.00    27.00
Total                                                54.90  1,982.82   869.80
of which has been repaid                            -         0.40      -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,982.42   869.80
Amount sold                                           0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,982.42
Total undisbursed                                             869.80   869.80
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
__   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3
/a
13.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Zear            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
:1979     Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
.980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
T"otal undisbursed                                           0.65      -       0.65
, a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
i981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2      2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



34                       ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Corporation (BADC), the project lead agency, has been requested to initiate
the preparation of the PCR. It has been agreed that disbursements will con-
tinue through April 30, 1982 against items contracted prior to December 31,
1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975;  Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project.
Civil works in the original project area are completed. About 735 low lift
pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. How-
ever, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to inhibit full
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. They are, however, improving.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 60 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates prep-
ared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB has
been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be substantially
reduced.  Construction works for the hatchery complex, training hostel and
staff quarters related to the fisheries component are expected to be completed
by April 1982. Fish seed production on a commercial basis has started in 1981
and will reach full capacity in 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow full completion of components which were
initially delayed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification for the closure dam
and embankments, the only remaining major works, has been done. The design
for the works produced by the consultants is much more sophisticated than
envisaged at appraisal. Though revised cost estimates are not available
to IDA, it is estimated that the cost overrun on this component could be -
substantial. BWDB has been asked to prepare alternative design proposals.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress; all procurement
has been completed and efforts are being made to speed up the civil works
program to ensure completion before credit closure at June 30, 1982. Although
the extension service is now well structured and better disciplined, the
methodology needs continued improvement. Good extension/research linkages
have been established; the research program now places more emphasis on
off-station work aimed at finding practical solutions to farmer problems.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
rescovery effort. Staff housing component may be scaled down.



-36                       ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
been taken up only recently. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project is making satisfactory progress. The BARC headquarters
building is complete and fully operational. BARI station developments are
almost complete at Jessore and Janalpur, but Hathazari is behind schedule.
The Research Grant Scheme is operating well and supports 40 research sub-
projects in eleven institutes. An evaluation and monitoring system has been
inaugurated. The foreign training component finances 31 PhD students at 15
universities. All Project funds fully committed.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a slow start, construction of civil works in the central
hatchery complex has commenced in January 1982. It is hoped that the imple-
mentation delays can be made up at least partially and that the central
hatchery will go into operation by June 1983. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by Tk 26 million (23%). Such increase will necessi-
tate an additional government input of Tk 18 million. IDA-s share of the
increase can be absorbed within the Credit amount because of Taka devaluation
of about 19% since appraisal.



37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs, the Phase I
sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been placed
for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has begun with about
1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overallprogress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant was appointed and visited the areas
in July 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (formerly Bangladesh Landset
Program) should undertake the five year Remote Sensing Program and a draft
scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained in February will be
processed shortly; aerial photography was recently completed.
Cr. No. 1140  Hand Tubewells Project:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project staff are in place and tendering procedures for raw materials
to fabricate 90,000 tubewells are complete. However, procurement procedures
are being held up by inadequate budgetary allocations. A minimum of six months
lead time is required for procurement and local fabrication, and delays could
affect tubewell availability and sales in the 1982/83 boro season. Price
parity between BADC carry-over stocks and project tubewells is yet to be
established. Planning Commission has been alerted to both of these problems.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit for investments
in minor irrigation and other agricultural development. The privatization of
shallow tubewell sales has not made much progress, primarily due to the price
differential between public sector and private sector sales and the reluctance
of government to issue import licenses to private dealers. Appointment of
consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency, is yet to
be made.



-38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1184 Second Drainage and Flood Control Project: US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant has been
mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total project costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing but with an increase in foreign exchange requirement of about
US$12 million.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit is
continuing with improvement in BSB's operations, especially in the areas of
loan accounting and staff training. Areas of operational weakness, partic-
ularly project appraisal and loan collections are receiving close GOB/IDA
supervision.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional



- 39 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
fcr small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
Implementation of action programs undertaken under this and preceding
import program credits are proceeding satisfactorily, although GOB has yet to
make the full FY81 infusions of equity agreed for public sector units in the
Jute and Textile Sectors. This situation will be monitored by forthcoming
mission to Bangladesh. As of March 31, 1982 the credit has been fully commit-
ted, while disbursements were US$47.2 million. Allowing for processing of pay-
ments in the pipeline, the credit should be fully disbursed within the next few
months.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1982 US$23.26 million had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.



-40-                   ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule.  During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project:  US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. Action is also
underway to strengthen BSBs sectoral review capabilities.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982.
Cr, No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is nearing completion. All buildings in the three
new ATIs have been completed and only minor works, for which contracts have
been let, remain. Of the four existing ATIs, construction and renovation
are virtually complete. As a result of student strikes in 1981 no first year
students were enrolled and the institutions are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. Staffing is adequate and most have received in-service
training under the project. The AMTI course has been successful and an
extension of three years is now under consideration. RMB is closely super-
vising the project and GOB have been asked to ensure that all taka funds
necessary for completion of the project by June 30, 1982 will be provided.



-41-                     ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is encountering major problems in the areas of manage-
ment and institution building. The Project Implementation Unit is not opera-
ting well, largely as a result of the lack of a full-time Project Director,
and also because the Project Manager is a consultant to the Government
and therefore lacks financial authority. The functions of other PIU staff
are still not clearly defined, and the Chief Technical Adviser of the ILO
technical assistance team has recently resigned.
The National Council for Skill Development and Training has not
functioned well since its inception, having met only once in two years.
ThLe various sub-committees have also only met irregularly. The appointment
of staff for the Secretariat is lagging considerably behind schedule, and
as yet, no site has been acquired for the headquarters building.
The In-Plant and Instructor Training Programs are progressing,
but at a slower than planned rate because of difficulties in financing the
recurrent costs. The Revolving Fund established to facilitate this process
has not been replenished. Tenders have been called for the construction of
the-five new Technical Training Centers, but the program is still about 18
months delayed. As a result of the February/March supervision, the Govern-
ment has been advised that quick actions were needed to solve these problems.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), particularly the establishment of the
project implementation infrastructure, staff training, base line evaluation,
materials production and distribution (girls uniforms and textbooks), and
the formation of the Directorate of Primary and Mass Education, Local Educa-
tion Authorities and School Management Committees, have all been substantially
completed. The second year program has begun, but some delays are evident
primarily in the construction program. The Government's decision to concen-
trate on school repair and other minor works during the first year of the
national UPE has delayed the start of construction on the schools to which
IDA funds have been targeted. There is also some evidence that the recurrent
training started during the first year may not, as yet, be achieving all of
its intended objectives. The Government has recognized these issues and
have taken appropriate steps to remedy the situation.



-42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. Progress
in implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project,
in respect of which the original Closing Date was extended initially by one
year, has improved slightly during the last six months, although it is still
slow and therefore unsatisfactory. Although 9 of the 21 project training
and service facilities were fully completed by September 30, 1981 and 4 more
were expected to be handed over by December 31, 1981, the remaining 8 will not
be completed until mid-1982. In the circumstances and at the Government-s
request, the Closing Date has been extended for a second and final period
of nine months to September 30, 1982 to permit full project completion and
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers' components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government-s
revision of its Second Five-Year Plan. These problems combined with the
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the results are
awaited. The Closing Date of the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance



43                         ANNEX II
Page 13
to cover short term protective Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost
of eligible components of the arbitration. Significant failures have appeared
on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and tenders for telecommunication equipment
have been issued. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service
vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants appointed to carry
out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and accounting systems
for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Implementation of the
recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress. At the request of
the Borrower the closing date has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted, and continues to result, in increased project cost due to inflation.
The problem appears to result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g.,
the ineptitude of the "Procurement Committee" and standard Government proce-
dures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by mid-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
de:Lays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved
a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development
program within the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on com-
mercial accounts is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be
prepared from FY82/83 onward.  In general, financial performance of TTB is
reasonably good. Covenants under the project are now being complied with.
TTB has recently taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the Fourth Technical Assistance
credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.



-.45 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed.  Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year, in line
with original schedule.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by mid-1982. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. A tariff increase is needed and WASA
has problems in collecting arrears from Government departments; there is also
a land acquisition problem. GOB has been asked to ensure that all of these
matters are quickly resolved.



ANNEX III
-46-                               Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:
GOB/REB/consultants
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:
May 1980
(d)  First IDA mission to review project:
October 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:
May 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:
April 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1982
Section II:    Special IDA implementation Action
Nil



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOB would provide funds to cover any difference between
the cost of supply of electricity and the amount
charged to the PBSs during the first five years of
each PBS's Operation (paragraph 77) and also, any
deficit resulting from REB's administrative expenses
(paragraph 71).
(b) GOB would submit bulk tariff formula by December 31,
1982 and implement thereafter (paragraph 77) and also,
power sector tariff study recommendations by December 31,
1984 for implementation by July 1, 1985 (paragraph 78).
(c) REB would ensure that after the first six years of its
operation, each PBS generates funds equivalent to not less
than 20% of its capital expenditures (paragraph 75), and
until the power sector tariff study is implemented, the
average PBS tariffs are not less than the average BPDB
tariffs (paragraph 78).
(d) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement,
between the Borrower and REB (paragraph 66);
(ii) the submission of a model sub-loan contract for
completion by REB and the PBSs for the transfer
of the assets (paragraph 66); and
(iii) the approval of the Project Proforma by the
Borrower (paragraph 65).



I



(TIHS2H  >    H'>.                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
(YU"S'kt V                                                                         ~~~~~~~RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
"-y   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~POWER   SYSTEM
H             54                                                                                                                           NE
H'  41                                    STE~~~~~~~~~AM THE-S  A          A          A
cEll 'IA,H   FIgIHI 5  5         H';                                                            ((1151~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~         ~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~,5 TNl 111E NE ***
H5    '7      RAMSP                5        <H5  S~~~~~ U 
KR5  S                                                                          51    HANS ELMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
B       R~~~~~~   EHEK5SNIRIJAS
SsHH,'~~~~s  ','~~                                           -   -   NTEMSH~~~"IAY    MAI  ASE
) 51    C>  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
(4 AIHIM                             'S'>N,HJAHT s            R
I N D I A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 0 ,A K H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~515
K                                 AyAPS                 K         ~           -H-"                                              HES
5   pH~HdAHHlH             "H"                        *'SHAHE
-ES  / ~ ~   ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ HiTGN
N'S  E,HISsHEU  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~            S..~2
~~T  5'  r~~~~~~ SQ  PAl~~~~~~C>yE~~~~~~~EH                                                                         55,H'I'         ~         ~         UR~A
A  PH                                                    -                               H""~~~~~~~~~~~~~  U'          'H             T'A~~~~~~~~~~~T-



I



94  1    .                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
*A.ABNX                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area Coverage Rural Electrification Program
-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
- r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
5 KNIT.                                                     NAN  NAJN.NATNNN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
7  NN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNNNti     (T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<L 
- \N~~~~~~~NP    PNDON  Nt  -  RN  'N                                                                   ANN NAN N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
RNNNNBNNN  <  >A~~~~~~~~~~a~~  NNNAN'PM               016~
'A.>  V                                                              -  -  NTETANNNAN..N-NNNNEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ',
At                                                                     ®'NPAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
>NN~~~J  '.N,EAN  RN' N,                                                                     ETCNNNDELATANNN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
tNNNNNA.NN.N  \   N[N>N~~~,'NN    ~~$NA  I                                               N NNNNA'ANA. HEN A.AN [_NA 
-NNNNNRNV.                   N.N  NI                                                                   NANN NNNNN.A  R
YNN'ANN  <ENN7%I  ~ 2~tv 
'5  ANN NA)NN ~~~~~~~~~~~ANN~~~  p~~~Ntv,,  'N~~~~A
NTNNNN                                                       it-
*  1''1LA-   iFdNN                                                           NN                  NNNBN          NNN   ~N
ARNENNA I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~



