O"FICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1262 BD
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
Dated          &^A4J,   3O         ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1262 B0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       U, 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD (hereinafter
called REB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-six million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 36,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that REB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to REB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS REB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. REB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utilities practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. In order to assist REB in carrying out the
Project,   REB   shall   employ   consultants   whose   selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Before the completion of each scheme under the
Project, REB shall:
(a) establish a PBS in each Project Sub-Area with by-laws
satisfactory to the Association;
(b) promptly thereafter, enter into a Sub-loan contract
with the PBS so established providing for the transfer of the
completed scheme to the PBS under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association including, inter alia, a repayment
period for the principal representing the cost of such scheme of
25 years after a 5 year grace period and an interest rate of
three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum during the
said grace period and an interest rate of three percent (3%) per
annum thereafter.    Each such Sub-loan contract shall be sub-
stantially in the form of a model Sub-loan contract satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a)   Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.03 of this Agreement REB undertakes that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on
terms whereby REB shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of REB, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate: (i) the
right to require each PBS to operate the scheme within its Proj-
ect Sub-Area with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and public utilities stand-
ards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require
that the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) the right
of the Association and of REB to inspect such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) the right to obtain all such information as the Association


﻿-3-
or REB shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the PBS and
the benefits to be derived from the Project; and (v) the right of
REB to suspend or terminate the right of the PBS to operate the
scheme upon failure by such PBS to perform its obligations under
its agreement with REB.
(b) REB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-
loan in such manner as to (i) protect the interests of the
Association and of REB, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) REB undertakes to insure or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by REB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) REB shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07 (a) REB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) REB shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's repre-
sentatives  to  visit   the  facilities  and   construction  sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it. the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Upon the award by REB of any contract for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between REB and the
Association, REB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by REB and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) REB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of REB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.08. REB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, REB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) REB shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) REB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by REB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of REB
Section 3.01. REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to, carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with


﻿-5-
sound administrative, financial, and public utilities practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to, at all
times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public utilities practices.
Section 3.03. REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to, take
out and maintain with responsible Insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to,
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to: (i)
have  its  accounts and    financial statements   (balance  sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of REB and each such PBS and the audits
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, REB shall ensure that in any fiscal year:


﻿-6-
(i) its internally generated funds are not less than
1.5 times its debt service requirement; and
(ii) beginning in fiscal year 1986 its administrative
costs and the amounts paid by REB as interest and
other charges on its debt shall not exceed 75% of
the aggregate amounts received by REB as interest
on its loans and investments and as other reve-
nues.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i)  the term "internally generated funds" means gross
revenues from all sources related to REB's operat-
ions, and the repayments received on loans by REB,
less all expenses incurred on account of such
operations, including expenses of administration,
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any, and
dividends, but before any provision is made for
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(ii)  the term "debt" means any debt incurred by REB
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(iii)  the term "incurring of debt" includes the assump-
tion and guarantee of debt and any renewal, exten-
sion or modification of the terms of the debt or
of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(iv) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument pro-
viding for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date and to the
extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument, and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(v)  the term   "debt service requirement" means     the
aggregate   amount   of   amortization   (including


﻿-7-
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt; and
(vi) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
official rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able by REB for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence of such rate of exchange,
at a rate acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) REB shall cause each PBS to take all such measures as
shall be necessary to ensure that, until such time as the tariff
structure referred to in paragraph (a). (ii) of Section 3.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement is implemented pursuant to the
provisions of said paragraph, the average price for kWh sold by
such PBS shall not be less than the average price per kWh sold by
BPDB.
(b) REB shall cause each PBS to take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its retail tariffs) as shall be required to produce, in
each fiscal year: (i) as of the sixth year of operation of the
respective scheme, gross revenues from all sources related to
such PBS's operations sufficient to meet its electricity pur-
chases, administrative expenses, depreciation and interest ex-
penses; and (ii) as of the seventh year of operation of the
respective scheme, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20% of the annual average of such PBS's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, during such
fiscal year and the preceding and next following fiscal years.
(c) Three months before the start of each fiscal year, REB
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by each PBS on a
basis satisfactory to the Association, cause such PBS to review
the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in
the preceding paragraph (b) for the current and next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such
review upon its completion.


﻿(d) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means, in
respect of each PBS, the difference between:
(1) The sum of gross revenues from al, sources
related to its operations, and net non-
operating income; and
(2) The sum of all expenses of its operations,
including   maintenance   and  administration
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash
operating   charges),   interest   and  other
charges on debt (excluding interest financed
under a loan contract), repayment of loans
(including sinking fund payments, if any),
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes.
(ii) The term "capital expenditures" means, in respect
of each PBS, all expenditures incurred on account
of fixed or capital assets related to its
operations, excluding the consumer's contribution
in aid of construction.
Section 4.05. (a) REB shall ensure that the account payable
in each PBS for the electricity purchased from BPDB shall, at no
time, exceed the equivalent of the preceding two months purchases
of electricity by such PBS.
(b) REB shall make available to each PBS, as short-term
loans, all such funds as may be required by such PBS: (i) as
working capital for its operations; and (ii) to provide credit to
the customers for the purchase of appliances and house wiring.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of REB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:


﻿-9-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement     terminates   in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
REB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogr m to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For REB:
Rural Electrification Board
No. 26 Road No. IA
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
RURELEC                          642205 REBD BJ
Dacca
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of REB may be taken or executed by the Member
(Finance), REB or Director (Finance), REB or such other person or
persons as REB shall designate in writing, and REB shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
v2QL Regional Vice President
South Asia
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on tl-      basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, REB shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. REB shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿-12-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of REB
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Bangladesh
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of


﻿- 13 -
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the compariscn under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, REB shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, REB shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its reviews a detailed report on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform REB and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿-14 -
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, REB shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform REB and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   3        day of
1982l                          V
FOR SECRETARY


