Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7740-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 4, 2009 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7740-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 4, 2009, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.   
 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of $300,000,000 (three hundred million Dollars), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that has arisen that 
has or would have the effect of materially
:
(i) impairing the Borrower’s ability to 
maintain an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework; or (ii) reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program, including any action listed under Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement, in a manner that could adversely affect the achievement of 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The legal opinion referred to in Section 9.02 of the General Conditions shall be issued by 
the Head of the Legal Affairs Group of the Directorate of Public Credit and National 
Treasury of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on February 4, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín 
Carrera 7ª, N
o
6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (571) 
350-9344 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Silvia Constain 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Tuck 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
A.
 
Strengthening of Prudential Regulation and Supervision
1. 
The Borrower has initiated a program of administrative, technical and legal actions aimed 
at strengthening its financial system in order to be better prepared to manage the impacts 
of an economic downturn, through the adoption of a series of precautionary measures, 
including, 
inter alia:
 
(a) 
the resiliency of the credit institutions has been strengthened in order to manage 
eventual credit losses, through the implementation of a countercyclical policy, 
issued by the Financial Superintendency, instructing said institutions to retain a 
portion of their profits earned during the period June-December, 2008 (in a 
capital reserve), as evidenced by the Letter 
Nº 2009037259-000-000 issued by 
the Financial Superintendency on May 8, 2009;
 
and 
 
(b) 
the financial sector institutions regulated by the Financial Superintendency –
except for insurance companies – are better prepared to manage liquidity risks 
through the implementation of internal systems (comprising, 
inter alia,
 policies 
and procedures to deal with liquidity risk; a framework to measure such risk and 
a
standardized framework to compute the liquidity gap) to measure and 
administer such risks as required by the issuance of Circular Nº 16.   
 
B.
 
Strengthening of the Framework for the Intervention and Resolution of Unauthorized 
Financial Intermediation Activities
1. 
The Borrower has strengthened its ability to conduct the administrative intervention of 
the entities that carry out unauthorized financial intermediation activities, by collecting 
resources or cash from the public without proper authorization or regulation by the 
Financial Superintendency, through a series of actions aimed at:
 
(a) 
 providing the Superintendency of Companies with the legal mandate to take 
strategic and precautionary measures, including 
inter alia:
 taking control of said 
entities, taking possession and/or ordering the freezing of their assets, and 
returning resources or funds to the affected persons, as evidenced by the 
enactment of Decree Nº 4334; and
 
(b) 
 providing the heads of local governments (Mayors and
 
Governors) with the legal 
mandate to take precautionary measures, including those necessary to close the 
premises of said entities located in their respective jurisdictions, as evidenced by 
the enactment of Decree Nº 4335.
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
C. 
Securities Market Reform
1.
 
The Borrower has initiated a program of legal, administrative and technical actions aimed 
at upgrading the securities market by reducing transaction costs and systemic risks, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the strengthening of securities clearing and settlement systems by: (i) providing 
legal certainty to market participants undertaking securities transactions; and (ii) 
establishing criteria to determine the finality of said transactions, as evidenced by 
the enactment of Decree N
º
1456;
(b) 
the regulation of automatic trading and registration systems to establish 
information technology requirements that would provide security and 
transparency and reduce operational risks, as evidenced by the enactment of 
Decree Nº 1120; and 
 
(c) 
 the regulation of the operations of a central counterparty clearing house 
responsible for the provision of clearing and settlement services for exchange 
traded derivatives, as evidenced by the enactment of Decree Nº 2893.  
 
2. 
The Borrower has initiated a program of legal, administrative and technical actions 
aimed at enhancing the transparency of market architecture and operations, by carrying 
out a series of strategic actions, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the establishment of a series of principles, policies and procedures with a view to 
regulate the securities intermediation and operations activities, by imposing 
stricter requirements aimed at: (i) improving the professionalism of the 
intermediaries; (ii) protecting investor rights; and (iii) increasing the transparency 
of the market by requiring mandatory reporting of all over-the-counter 
transactions to a securities trading registry regulated by the Financial 
Superintendency, as evidenced by the enactment of Decree Nº 1121; and 
 
(b) 
the regulation of the trading of derivatives products, including through the 
issuance of accountancy criteria, as well, as the treatment of exposures for the 
purpose of computing counterparty credit risks in line with international 
standards, as evidenced by the enactment of Decree Nº 1796. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
Page  9
-8- 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Tranche Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
300,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each August 1 and February 1 
 
Beginning August 1, 2017  
 
through February 1, 2035 
 
2.7% 
On August 1, 2035 
 
2.8% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
Page  11
-10- 
 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Circular Nº 16” means 
Circular Externa N
º
16 de 2008,  Reglas Relativas al Sistema de 
Administración de Riesgo de Liquidez Modificación del Capítulo VI de la Circular 
Externa Nº 100 de 1995,
 the circular establishing the criteria for the administration of 
liquidity risks, enacted on May 6, 2008 by the Financial Superintendency and published 
in its webpage 
www.superfinanciera.gov.co
 under Bulletin (
Boletín Ministerio de 
Hacienda y Crédito Público, Capítulo Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia
)
N° 96, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Decree Nº 1120” means 
Decreto N
º
1120
de
2008, Por el cual se reglamentan los 
sistemas de negociación de valores y de registro de operaciones sobre valores y se dictan 
otras disposiciones, 
the 
Borrower’s decree regulating the trading and registration of 
securities, enacted by the Borrower’s Executive on April 11, 2008 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 46.957 on April 11, 2008 as amended to 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Decree Nº 1121” means 
Decreto N
º
1121 de 2008, Por el cual se Reglamenta la 
actividad de intermediación en el mercado de valores y se dictan otras disposiciones
,
the 
Borrower’s decree regulating the intermediation services in the securities market, enacted 
by the Borrower’s Executive on April 11, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 46.957 on April 11, 2008, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
 “Decree Nº 1456” means 
Decreto N
º
1456
de
2007,
Por el cual se dictan disposiciones 
sobre los sistemas de compensación y liquidación de operaciones sobre valores
,
the 
Borrower’s decree regulating the clearing and settlement of securities, enacted by the 
Borrower’s Executive on April 30, 2007 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 46.615 on April 30, 2007, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Decree Nº 1796” means 
Decreto N
º
1796
de
2008, Por el cual se reglamentan las 
operaciones con instrumentos financieros derivados y productos estructurados, tanto en 
el mercado mostrador como en sistemas de negociación de valores, realizadas por las 
entidades sometidas a inspección y vigilancia de la Superintendencia Financiera de 
Colombia y se dictan otras disposiciones, 
the 
Borrower’s decree regulating the issuance 
of derivatives and structured financial products, enacted by the Borrower’s Executive on 
May 23, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 46.998 on May 23, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Decree Nº 2893” means 
Decreto N
º
2893 de 2007, Por el cual se regulan las Cámaras 
de Riesgo Central de Contraparte y se dictan otras disposiciones
,
the 
Borrower’s decree 
regulating central clearing of counterparty risk, enacted by the Borrower’s Executive on 
July 31, 2007 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 46.706 on July 31, 2007, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Decree Nº 4334” means
 Decreto N
º
4334
de
2008,
Por el cual se expide un 
procedimiento de intervención en desarrollo del Decreto Nº 4333 de 17 de noviembre de 
Page  13
-12- 
 
2008
,
the 
Borrower’s decree regulating the intervention and liquidation of institutions 
engaging in unauthorized financial operations, enacted by the Borrower’s Executive on 
November 17, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 47.176 on November 17, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Decree Nº 4335” means
 Decreto Nº 4335 de 2008, Por el cual se asignan funciones a 
los Alcaldes y Gobernadores en desarrollo del Decreto Nº 4333 de 17 de noviembre de 
2008
,
the Borrower’s decree providing the heads of local governments with authority to 
take precautionary measures regarding the institutions engaging in unauthorized financial 
operations and located in their respective jurisdictions, enacted by the Borrower’s 
Executive on November 17, 2008 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 47.176 on November 17, 2008, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, Nº 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub
-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.4
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths’ 
or silversmiths’ wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  14
-13- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
10. 
“Financial Superintendency” means
 Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia
,
the 
Borrower’s regulatory agency, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Law Nº 964 (as hereinafter defined), and its successor or successors thereto, responsible 
for the supervision of financial institutions. 
 
11. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
12. 
“Law Nº 964” means 
Ley 964 de 2005, Por la cual se dictan normas generales y se 
señalan en ellas los objetivos y criterios a los cuales debe sujetarse el Gobierno Nacional 
para regular las actividades de manejo, aprovechamiento e inversión de recursos 
captados del público que se efectúen mediante valores y se dictan otras disposiciones, 
 
the Borrower
’s law, enacted by Congress on July 8, 2005 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 45.963 on July 8, 2005, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
13. 
 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen 
the resiliency of the Borrower’s financial sector and deepen securities markets to achieve 
sustainable growth, set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 1, 2009, from the 
Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
14. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
 
“Superintendency of Companies” means 
Superintendencia de Sociedades
,
the 
Borrower’s regulatory agency, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Law Nº 58 enacted by the Borrower’s Congress on May 5, 1931 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial
)
Nº 21.684 on May 8, 1931, as amended to 
Page  15
-14- 
 
the date of this Agreement, and its successor or successors thereto, responsible for the 
supervision of commercial institutions. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:  
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”).
 
