Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4847 
 
Operation Name 
Financial Sector DPL  
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector Financial 
Sector 
Project ID 
P116088 
Borrower 
Republic of Colombia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministerio de
 Hacienda y Crédito Público
 
Date PID prepared  
 
May 20, 2009. 
Date of Appraisal 
authorization 
 
June 5, 2009 
Date of Board 
Approval 
 
July 30, 2009 
1. Country and Sector Background 
 
Recent growth and poverty reduction in Colombia has been supported by a stable expansion of the 
financial system, following the financial crisis that Colombia suffered at the end of the1990s. As the 
ongoing global crisis impacts Colombia, the Government of Colombia (GoC) is committed to preserving 
these gains in financial sector development as part of its broader development strategy. This Financial 
Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL) will provide support for the two pronged combined approach the 
government has been implementing to tackle 
–in the short run– the impact of the international crisis in the 
Colombian financial sector, while at the same time deepen –in the long term– reforms needed to further 
developed financial markets. GoC’s commitment to face these issues and the soundness of the approach 
as well as the overall impact of these reforms has in the Colombian economy underpin the support of this 
loan.
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The proposed operation supports ongoing reforms to strengthen financial sector resilience and deepen 
capital markets to sustain growth. Strengthening the financial system to withstand the headwinds of the 
global crisis is a priority for the authorities. Financial crises exert an important toll in terms of output 
decline, which in turn has negative consequences in terms of poverty and social indicators.
 
Further 
development of capital markets in Colombia is necessary to promote savings and to channel those savings 
efficiently to fund private sector investment and foster growth.  The proposed operation would help 
achieve the objective of promoting savings, investment and finance to achieve sustainable growth as 
identified in the Colombian National Development Program and supported by the current Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS). 
3. Description 
This project supports reform in three areas  
Page  2
A. Strengthening Prudential Regulation and Supervision 
 
Capital and liquidity buffers are essential to preserve financial stability. This component supports the 
following policy actions. 
1. Adoption of a countercyclical policy by instructing credit institutions to capitalize 2008 profits. The 
aim of the instruction is to strengthen institutions resiliency by constituting buffers in good times to 
mitigate the effect of the deterioration in credit quality during the downward part of the cycle.  
 
2. Issuance of a norm to enhance liquidity buffers and improve the management and supervision   of 
liquidity risks  
 
B. Strengthening the Framework for the Intervention and Resolution of Unauthorized Financial 
Intermediation Activities 
 
Unauthorized financial intermediaries 
–even if they are not fraudulent like the pyramid schemes– are 
more prone to failure given the lack of supervision and regulation. The collapse of these intermediaries 
could undermine the confidence in the regulated financial system and have potential sever consequences. 
This operation supports regulations to prevent discourage unauthorized financial intermediation, 
preserving financial sector stability and protecting the poor which specially targeted by some of these 
intermediaries. 
 
C. Securities Market Reform 
 
The GoC has redoubled efforts to introduce additional regulations to keep on track the securities market 
reform initiated in 2005, and supported by previous World Bank Operations. Recently, the authorities 
issued regulation for an upgraded market infrastructure that increases efficiency and reduces systemic 
risks to create the conditions for solid market growth. The authorities have also advanced in regulating the 
intermediaries and the type of transactions that can be negotiated and executed in the market. The 
regulations have made possible the creation of a central counterparty clearing house and the creation of an 
exchanged-trade derivatives market. Measures supported by this operation include 
1. Issuance of regulations to enhance securities market infrastructure, including: (i) securities clearing and 
settlement systems; (ii) securities trading and registration systems; and (iii) central clearing for 
counterparty risk. 
2. Improve market architecture and operations by: (i) issuance of regulations with  stricter requirements 
for transparency, corporate governance and professionalism imposed by the Law 964/2005 in order to 
protect investor rights; and (ii) regulation of derivative products  in order to promote healthy market 
development for hedging of market exposures among market participants. 
 
4. Financing 
Source:                                                                                                        ($m.) 
BORROWER                                                                                                0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                  300 
DEVELOPMENT 
Page  3
Total                                                                                                              300      
 
5. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The MHCP is responsible for the implementation of the proposed DPL as well as for coordinating actions 
among the concerned agencies including, in particular, the Financial Superintendent.. Together with the 
MHCP, these institutions will collect the necessary data to assess implementation progress and report it to 
the Bank, taking into account both process advances and service statistics, survey and other data that 
might be used to assess the achievement of the program’s end outcomes.  
6. Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed loan would support sustainable growth and alleviation of poverty by: 
 
·
Preserving financial stability to avoid financial sector disruptions that cross-country experiences 
indicate could have severe consequences in terms of output and could result in financial 
disintermediation. 
·
Further developing securities markets to address the needs of individual and the productive sector. 
Securities markets have a relevant impact on the productivity of the corporate sector, through the 
provision of financing and risk management tools.  
 
The main risk to the success of the measures implemented by the authorities and supported by this DPL is 
that further deterioration of macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect the health of the financial 
system and/or hamper the development of the securities market.  
 
7. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects. 
The proposed operation supports policies that seek to reduce poverty, through fostering sustainable 
economic growth. A favorable stronger, more efficient, and more diversified financial system and capital 
market can provide the opportunity to private enterprises (the engine of economic expansion) to access a 
larger amount of resources. The proposed operation advances the CPS’ aim of promoting fast and 
sustainable growth through stimulating private sector activity and investment.  
Prevention of financial crises is also essential to poverty alleviation. Years of sustained economic growth 
throughout the 1980s and early 1990s lifted many households out of poverty in Colombia, but the 
macroeconomic crisis at the end of the 1990s eradicated more than a decade of progress. With the return 
of stable economic growth in the last few years, national poverty measures have begun to improve again. 
The ongoing global financial and economic crisis has severely deteriorated macroeconomic conditions 
and heightens financial sector vulnerabilities. In strengthening the financial system through greater 
market integrity and enhanced prudential regulation, the proposed program helps to reduce the risk of 
future financial crises. 
The measures adopted to prevent the growth of unregulated financial intermediaries would help protect 
savings of low-income households. Low-income households were the primary customers of the pyramid 
schemes that collapsed recently, and many modest families lost their savings as a result. The measures 
supported by this operation would help preventing the formation and growth of such fraudulent schemes 
by granting authorities the power to intervene swiftly. 
 
Page  4
This operation is not expected to have direct effects on the environment.   
 
8.Contact Point 
 
Eva Gutiérrez, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Sector Specialist 
Tel (+1 202) 458-1753 
Email: 
egutierrez2@worldbank.org
Location: Washington DC (IBRD) 
 
wb111214 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb111214\My Documents\Colombia DPL\ROC documents\PID Appraisal.doc 
06/02/2009 10:52:00 AM
 
