RE5TRICTED
FILE      COPY                        Report No.    P-781
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
February 27, 1970



INTERNATICNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOI'MENT
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO CHILE
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and reoommnendabion on a
proposed Loan in amount in various currencies equivalent to $7
million to the Republic of Chile for a project to expand and im-
prove secondary agricultural schools and primary teacher training
facilities.
PART 1. - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed loan would be the third Bank loan for educa-
tion in Chile.  In 1965, the Bank made a loan of $2.75 million to
Corporacion de Fomento de la Producci6n (CORFO), to finance the
activities of its vocational training affiliate, Instituto Nacional
de Capacitaci6n Profesional (INACAP). I am now submitting for your
consideration a Bank loan of $1.5 million to further improve and
expand INACAP's vocational training facilities concurrently with
this project.
3.       In 1967 and 1968 UNESCO Missions identified the priority
needs of Chile's educational system and helped the Government prepare
a specific project to expand and improve secondary schools and teacher
training facilities. The project was appraised by a Bank mission in
October-November 1968, and negotiations with the Chilean authorities
took place in Washington in June 1969. Subsequently, the Government
decided to omit seven comprehensive pilot secondary schools from the
project, pending a further review of their suitability under Chilean
conditions. A Bank mission reappraised the modified project in iNo-
vember 1969 and recommended financing it. Negotiations for the re-
vised project were resumed in W;ashington on February 4, 1970, and sub-
stantially completed on February 9, 1970. The Chilean delegation was
headed by Mr. Ernesto Schieffelbein, Director of the Planning Office,
Ministry of Education, and included Mr. Oscar Aguero, Coordinator
for International Cooperation of the Ministry of Education and Mr.
Luis Velasco, Director of CORFO's office in New York.
4.       The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Chile as of January 31, 1970:



-2-
Loan or                                                Almount (USs nil1ionY
Credit                                                              Undis-
Number   Year    Borrower            Purpose            Bank IDA    bursed
(Loans fully disbursed)   116.4 19.0
366-CH   1963  CORF0         Livestock                  19.0     -    3.0
367-CH   1963  OX)RFO        Meat and Milk Plants        3.7     -    0.5
431-CH   1965  CORFO         Vocational Training         2.7     -    0.2
479-CH   1966  ENDESA/CORFO  Power                      60.0     -   43.6
558-CH   1968  Republic of   Highway Maintenance        11.6     -   10.7
Chile
Total
(less cancellations)      213.4
of which has been
repaid to Bank and
others                   60.2
Total now outstanding     153.2
Amount Sold    7.2
Of which has
been repaid  5.8          1.14
Total now held by
Bank and IDA          151.8  19.0
Total undisbursed       _8.0      -   58.0
5.        The problems encountered in implementing some of these loans have
been discussed in my concurrent report on the Second Vocational Training
Project.



- 3 -
PART II. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
6.       Borrower:                  The Republic of 5thile.
Amount:                    In various currencies equivalent
to $7 0 million.
Purpose:                   To assist in financing a project
for the improvement and expan-
sion of secondary agricultural
education and teacher-training
for primary schools.
Amortization:              In 25 years, including a 10-year
period of grace through semi-
annual installments beginning
March 15, 1980, and ending
March 15, 1995,
Interest Rate:             7 percent per annum.
Connitment Charge:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III. - THE PROJECT
7.       A detailed descrlption of the project is given in the
attached Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of a Third Education
Project in Chile" (PE-6a).
B.       For the past several years the Government has been carrying
out a broadly based educational reforme almed principally at modernizing
methods and institutions so as to improve the quality and raise the
efficiency of the educational system. Followirig major efforts in
recent years to widen educational opportunities, particularly in the
country-side, school enrollment is now relatively high in Chile at
both primary and secondary levels and there is no serious quantitative
shortage of middle level manpower, except in agriculture, fishery and
certain industries. However, there is much evidence that the average
school leaver is poorly prepared and that the education system needs
to be irmproved in quality and reoriented so as to be more responsive
to the needs of the labor market. The extent of the Government's
efforts in the education sector to date is reflected in the fact that
public sector expenditures on education nearly doubled in real terms
during 1964-68; total expenditure on education, private as well as
public is estimated to have increased from 4.6 percent to more than
5.5 percent of the GDP during the same period.
9.       The reform program, based on the National Education Reform
Act of 1966 is focused on two critical areas:



-h -
a)  Raising the quality of primary ec6ucation, particularly
through improvements in teacher training, and
b)  expanding and improving technical secondary education.
The project for which Bank assistance has been requested
is central to the Government's efforts to meet both these priority
needs.  In addition it will contribute towards providing scarce
middle-level agricultural manpower. The proposed project covers:
a)  the eonstruction and equipping of one new primary
teacher-training college and four new agricultural
secondary schools and
b)  the expansion and modernization of 10 existing primary
teacher-training colleges and seven agricultural second-
ary schools. It also includes technical assistance and
overseas training.
10.       In a major effort to improve the quality of primary educa-
tion, the training of primary school teachers has been upgraded from
the secondary to the post secondary level. However, existing facil-
ities are inadequate, The project will try to remedy this situation,
through the construction of new and the extension of existing buildings
and by providing modern equipment. The curriculum will be modernized
with greater emphasis on the general education of the students and
the acquisition of practical teaching skills throughout the three-
year training period. Certain Chilean universities also operate size-
able teacher-training programs and the Government has recognized the
importance of maintaining a balance between enrollment in the univer-
sity courses and in the teacher-training colleges so that the total
output of new teachers does not exceed national needs.
11.       In the field of agricultural secondary education, the
project will contribute to the Government's efforts to provide more
and better trained middle-level manpower. The construction or expan-
sion of 11 major rural secondary schools will make it possible to
phase out a large number of smaller, poorly located schools. The
related technical assistance and overseas training will facilitate
the introduction of a modern curriculum.
12.       The overall coordination and supervision of the construc-
tion and equipment of the facilities to be provided under the project
will be the responsibility of a special unit to be established by the
Ministry of Education. This unit will be headed by a full-time
Project Director who will be assisted by a Project Architect. Cone.-
struction design, contracting and supervision services will be
provided by the Sociedad Constructora de Establecimientos Educa-



cionales, S.A. (SCEE), a corpor-ation which carries out all school
construction for the Ministry of Education. SCEE has an experienced
professional staff and its design standards and construction practices
are high, Contracts for construction, furniture and equipment wi-ll
be let on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's procedures; local suppliers of furniture and equip-
ment will be accorded a 15 percent preference.
13.      The total estimated cost of the project is $14,O million,
including contingencies, of which some 76 percent will be for con-
struction, 19 percent for furniture and equipment and 5 percent for
technical assistance and fellowships. The proposed $7 million loan
will cover 50 percent of the estimated total cost of the project.
This includes the cost of imported instructional equipment and books,
imported building materials, the estimated foreign exchange component
of construction and domestically produced furniture, and the foreign
exchange cost of technical assistance and overseas training totalling
26 percent of total project costs. In addition the loan will finance
local expenditures on the project amounting to 24 percent of project
costs. In view of the key importance of the project in Chile's efforts
at educational improvement, I consider it appropriate and justified
for the Bank to finance up to half of the total costs, with the conse-
quent financing of part of the required local expenditures.
PARLT IV. - LEGAL INSTRUMEENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.      The draft Loan Agreement betwieen the Republic of Chile and
the Bank, the report of the committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
15.      The draft loan documents conform substantially to the docu-
ments used for education projects in general. The planning and su-
pervision of school construction for the Mlnistry of Education is
carried out in Chile by the Sociedad Constructora de Establecimientos
Educacionales, S.A. (SCEE), a government owned corporation. Section
5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement provides the terms and conditions
upon which SCEE will carry out its part of the project.
PART V. - THE ECONOMY
16.      An Economic Memcrandum based on the preliminary findings
of the recent Economic Yassion to Chile and other 000nomic data-, are
attached to my concurrent report on the Second Vocational Training
Project.



- 6 -
PAZR VI. - COI4PLIAINCE TITH AY??ICLHS OF AGREEMENT
17.      I am satisfied that the proposed lcoan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. - RECCEITNDA''TON
18.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
lWashington, D.C.
February 27, 1970



