Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY         fliJl
Report No. 2695-PH
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 20, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  -  Philippines Peso (P)
P 1   =  US$0.135
US$1  =  P 7.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ha          =  2.47 acres
1 km          =  0.62 miles
'1 sq km       =  0.386 sq  mi
*1 m           =  3.28 ft
1 sq m        =  10.76 sq ft
I cu m        =  35.31 cu ft
1 M c m       =  810.7 ac ft
1 mm          =  0.039 in
I kg          =  2.2 lb
1 cavan rice  =  50 kg
20 cavans rice = 1 m ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
AMC      =  Area Marketing Cooperative
BAEx     -  Bureau of Agriculture Extension
Barangay -  Village
BBR      =  Bureau of Barangay Roads
BHS      =  Barangay Health Station
BNS      =  Barangay Nutrition Scholar
BPI      =  Bureau of Plant Industry
BPW      =  Bureau of Public Works
BS       =  Bureau of Soils
CCC      = Cabinet Coordinating Commitee on Rural Development
CPO      =  Central Project Organization
FACOMA   =  Farmers Cooperative Marketing Association
FMT      =  Farm Management Technician
FSDC     =  Farm Systems Development Corporation
FNRI     =  Food and Nutrition Research Institute
HMT      =  Home Management Technician
IRRI     =  International Rice Research Institute
MLGCD    =  Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MOA      =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOH      =  Ministry of Health
MOI      -  Ministry of Industry
MPH      a  Ministry of Public Highways
NCP      =  Nutrition Center of the Philippines
NEDA     =  National Economic and Development Authority
NEP ?       National Extension Project
NFAC     =  National Food and Agriculture Council
NGA      =  National Grains Authority
NIA      =  National Irrigation Administration
NMPC     =  National Media Production Center
NNC      =  National Nutrition Council
NSDB     -  National Science Development Board
PCARR    =  Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources and
Research
PDAP     -  Provincial Development Assistance Program
PMPC     =  Provincial Media Production Center
PMS      =  Project Management Staff
PTC-RD   =  Philippine Training Center for Rural Development
RB       =  Rural Banks
RHU      =  Rural Health Unit
RYDO     = Rural Youth Development Officer
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CROP YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES: RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    BACKGROUND    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  1
General  ..............................    1  
The Rural and Agricultural Sector.                    . .1
Government Objectives and Strategy . . . . .     . . . .    2
Componenit Subsectors .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Technology for Rainfed Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . .    2
Irrigation .     ... ........ .. .      . . .  . . .       4
Extension    .  .      .   .   .   .   .   . * .  .  .  ..  .    .  .  .  4
Research ........... . . .  .  .  . . . .  .   .    5
Training . ..... .                      .  .   .......    5
Agricultural Credit. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .    6
Agricultural Marketing and Storage . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Human Nutrition - Conditions and Services. . . . . . . . .  7
2. THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .   8
Agriculture Production ......8
Climate .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Land Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
The Irrigation Situation and Potential . . . . . . . . . .  12
Experience with the Kabsaka Project. . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Rural Institutions and Programs in Iloilo. . . . . . . . .  13
Extension Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
TCraining   . ..-. ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .  ..   14
Research Services.     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Seed Production and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Credit Institutions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Marketing Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  16
Nutrition in Rural Areas  .       . . . . . . . .   .   .   17
Existing Infrastructure and Future Needs . . . . . . . . .  17
Roads . . . . . . .                        ....17
Storage, Processing and Shipment Facilities. . . . . . .  19
3.    THE  PROJECT.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Project Identification and Preparation . . . . . . . . . .  20
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Project Formulation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
This report reflects the findings of a Bank mission which visited the
Philippines in April/May 1979. The mission was composed of J. English,
G. Ablasser, R. Carriere, M. R. Tarafdar, B. Woods (Bank), E. Reusse (FAO)
and R. Baskett (consultant). Mr. Ablasser returned to the P'hilippines
in October 1979 for follow-up discussions.



- ii -
Page No.
Project Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .   22
Detailed Features. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
A.  Agricultural Production Services . . . . . . . . . . .   22
B.  Adaptive Trials .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .           25
C.  Water Impounding and Irrigation Systems. . . . .  . . .   25
D.  Grains Storage and Shipment Facility . . . . . . . . .   27
E.  Training . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   . . . . . . .  *   27
F.  Human Nutrition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   29
G.  Project Preparation .  .   .. .                    .         .   30
H.  Project Mlanagement Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Status of Studies and Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Implementation Schedule . . .   .   .   .            .        . .   31
Cost Estimate. . . . . . . . . . .          . . . . ..          . ..   31
Financing Plan . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .   . .   32
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Disbursement . . . . . . . .   . . . . .           . .   . . . .   34
Accounting Practices and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES. . . . . . . .   35
Project Organization .           .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .  . .   35
Beneficiaries Participation. . . ..  . . . . .   36
Project Implementation . ...... . .     . . . . . . . ..    36
Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . ..           .   . . . . . . .   40
Agricultural and Other Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
Operation and Maintenance .                            . . . . .   41
Monitoring and Evaluation.  .           .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   41
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION.  . . . . .               . .  . . . . . .   42
Cropping Calendar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
Cropping Patterns.. . . . . .  . . . . .                             43
Crop Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Animal Production.                 .   . . . . . . .4. . . .          54
Input Coefficients, Requirements and Prices. . . . . . . .   47
Farm 2Iechanization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
6.  MiARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY. . . .   48
Market Prospects .o. ..                  ....  48
Miarket Prices..   . . . . . . . . .                                 48
Farm Incomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
Cost and Rent Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
7.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
Fiscal Impact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
Foreign Exchange Effect. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54



- iii -
Page No.
Employment Effects . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .        55
Impact on Food Availability and Prices . . . . . . . . . . .        55
Environmental Effects .     .     .     .............. . .          55
Derivation of Economic Prices  . . . .         .. . . .             55
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . .        56
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk  . . .         .      .  .   .        59
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . . .         61
ANNEXES
1. Tables 1-12
2. Accounting Procedures of Government Agencies
3. Tables 1-9
4. Tables 1-5
5. Documents in Project File
CHART
World Bank - 20657
IIAP
IBRD 14461






PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(ILOILO) PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group assis-
tance in financing a project to promote agricultural production in nonirri-
gated areas in Iloilo province in the Western Visayas Region. The main
thrust of the project would be the extension to farmers of multiple cropping
techniques and increased input use. Further project components would include
small water impounding schemes and measures to improve nutrition. Together
these activities are directed towards increasing farm income, improving rural
health and reducing rural unemployment in rainfed lowland areas in Iloilo.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would have overall responsibility for imple-
menting the project.
1.02      Although several other Bank projects in the Philippines provide some
support for agricultural production in rainfed areas, this would be the first
project primarily aimed at improving rainfed agriculture on a larger scale.
The MOA was responsible for coordinating the preparation of the project, with
assistance from the Bank. Major contributors to project preparation were
staff of the provincial government and of the various participating ministries
located in Iloilo.
The Rural and Agricultural Sector
1.03      Some 31 million people or 70% of the Philippine population live in
rural areas where social services are poor, economic activities limited, agri-
cultural productivity often low and underemployment high; about 60% depend
directly on agriculture. The rural population is growing at 2.7% per year,
reflecting a natural increase of about 3.2% and an annual rate of migration
to the cities of 0.5%.
1.04      Agriculture is the predominant sector of the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of GDP, slightly more than 50% of total employment,
and 55-60% of the foreign exchange earnings. Nearly three-qua,rters of the
land under cultivation is devoted to grains production, notably rice and corn;
other principal crops are rootcrops, sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapple and
tobacco.
1.05      After recovering from highly adverse weather during 1972-73, the
sector grew remarkably well at about 5% p.a. between 1974-78, and significant
growth is also expected in 1979. The high rate of growth was particularly
buoyed by record rice and corn harvests in 1976 and 1977 resulting from
government-sponsored production credit programs, better weather, and expansion
and improvement of irrigation. More favorable producer prices in the mid-
1970s provided added stimulus.
1.06      Structurally, Philippine agriculture is overwhelmingly small scale.
The national average landholding is about 3.6 ha.  Most of the nonmarginal



-2-
lands, especially in the lowland areas, are under cultivation, hence, agri-
cultural development and improvement of farm incomes critically depend on
increased productivity of the already cultivated lands. Because of the small
average farm size, animal production consists predominantly of backyard enter-
prises. It is estimated that more than 80% of the pork and 70% of the beef
consumed in the Philippines come from animals raised in the backyard. Back-
yard animal production is characterized by poor husbandry and management
which, given the generally inferior types of animals, result in low produc-
tivity.
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.07      Government's agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, agri-
cultural diversification, reforestation and stronger linkages between agricul-
ture and industry. Key components of the development strategy are agrarian
reform and rural infrastructure development, improved credit programs aimed at
food and feedgrain self-sufficiency, and malnutrition prevention programs.
Progress has already been achieved with this strategy as is evident from
increased farm production and a more favorable growth rate of rural family
incomes compared to incomes of urban families. Nonetheless, of the 15 million
people in the lower 40% of the income scale, 12 million are found in the rural
areas, i.e., 39% of the rural population are poor compared with 23% of urban.
1.08      A major thrust towards achieving the objective of increased produc-
tion has been irrigation development, and nearly one-half of the country's
irrigation potential has already been realized. Improved technology for rice
cultivation has considerably raised the production potential of the irrigated
areas, and appreciable progress has been made towards full exploitation of
this potential. With the achievement of self-sufficiency in food grain pro-
duction, development priorities are now beginning to shift away from major
irrigation projects. This trend is reinforced by the fact that irrigation
development is likely to become increasingly expensive as more marginal areas
are included. Also, irrigation generates highly localized income effects
while the majority of the rural poor live in areas without irrigation
potential.
1.09      In contrast to the rapid pace achieved in irrigation development,
economic growth in rainfed areas has been proceeding slowly, mainly for lack
of suitable technological innovations. Recognizing this constraint, Govern-
ment, in the early 1970s, initiated research efforts in rainfed agriculture
which, generally, have produced mixed results, but have included a significant
breakthrough in multiple cropping (para. 1.10). The proposed project is
intended to promote this new technology which is expected to greatly improve
the prospects for the development of rainfed lowland areas with suitable
climatic conditions. No comparable technological base exists at present for
yield improvement in the rainfed upland areas where corn is the major crop.
The development of the upland areas therefore remains problematical, though
some diversification opportunities do exist.
Component Subsectors
1.10      Technology for Rainfed Agriculture.  Of the estimated 11 million ha
of cultivated land in the Philippines, approximately 1.2 million ha, or 10.9%,



- 3 -
was irrigated in 1978. This represented about 47% of the total area with
irrigation potential. A large proportion of the 8.2 million ha of cultivated
land without irrigation potential is in upland areas where agricultural pro-
ductivity is relatively low. Productivity in the rainfed lowlands is gene-
rally higher than in upland areas but varies considerably from region to
region depending on the amount and distribution of rainfall. Although some
rice is also grown in upland areas, the predominant crops there are maize and
other nonrice crops; all crops other than rice are thus common,ly called
"upland crops" in the Philippines.
1.11    Traditionally, rainfed areas sown to rice are cultivated once a year
during the peak rainy months and are idle during the rest of the year. In an
effort to intensify land use by increasing the number of crops; grown per year,
the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), has been testing, in
cooperation with national research institutions in the Philippines, cropping
patterns that allow rice farmers in some rainfed areas to harvest up to three
crops per year. Out-of-station (field) research sites of IRRI and the Bureau
of Plant Industry (BPI) are located in three provinces of the Philippines, one
of which is in Iloilo, and these are used to test promising cropping patterns
on experimental plots in farmers' fields which are jointly managed by farmers
and researchers. Results from these experiments can be divided into three
main categories, namely: (a) development of new varieties suitable for
multiple cropping; (b) modification of the rice culture to use water more
efficiently; and (c) modification of upland crops culture to fit the rice
paddy.
1.12      Crop improvement activities specifically directed to the special
needs of multiple cropping have resulted in new rice varieties that possess
characteristics such as short maturity of less than 110 days, nonsensitivity
to photoperiod, excellent seedling vigor to withstand poor seedbeds, tolerance
to shading, and tolerance to heavy rainfall at harvest.
1.13      At present, rice is transplanted on puddled land that is prepared
when the land is under water. While this process is advantageous in terms of
good weed control and in reducing man and animal power requirements, its major
drawback is the need to submerge the paddy before land preparation, a process
that is very wasteful in terms of water and time. 200-250 mm is needed for
puddling and usually a farmer has to accumulate more than a month of rain
before he can start seedbed preparation. To remedy the problem, puddling is
avoided altogether by preparing the land during the dry months and broadcast-
ing dry seed just before the first monsoon rain or germinated seed after the
onset of rain. Chemicals or hand methods may then be required for weed
control. Some new varieties are more suited to these techniques than the
traditional ones, and, where the monsoon lasts more than five months, a second
rice or upland crop may be grown on the same land without irrigation.
1.14      Submerged paddy soils, especially the heavy types, are difficult
to convert into a well aerated seedbed suitable for upland crops. To
overcome this difficulty, the IRRI and UPLB have been testing a production
technique by which upland crops are directly seeded into moist and unculti-
vated puddled soils of the rice paddies. Generally termed as minimum
tillage, the procedure consists of draining the paddy just before harvest,



- 4 -
cutting the rice straw close to the ground, and immediate drilling (seedling)
of the succeeding crop near the base of the newly cut rice straw. These
crops can then take advantage of the remaining rainy season and residual soil
moisture. Corn, sorghum, mung and soybeans have shown good potential under
this culture.
1.15      With the new varieties and the new cultural practices, it is now
possible to grow two or three crops per year in purely rainfed rice paddies.
Some of the more commonly used patterns are:
(a) rice-rice-upland crops;
(b)  upland crops-rice-upland crops;
(c)  rice-upland crops; and
(d)  upland crops-rice.
The first two patterns are most suited for areas with short dry seasons while
the third and fourth are suited for areas with shorter rainy months. Lighter
soils that have better surface drainage are more suited for upland crops
either before or after the main rice crop. Areas that have good access to the
market can grow more of the high profit upland crops, such as cowpeas, green
corn, and other vegetables while in the less accessible areas the grain
crops, such as corn, sorghum and the grain legumes which are easy to store
and to market are better suited.
1.16      Irrigation.  The development of irrigation has been an important
part of Government's strategy to increase the country's food crop production;
since 1960 the irrigated area increased by an average annual rate of about
2.4%. About three-quarters of all irrigated area is currently located in
Luzon, while the remainder is equally divided between the Visayas and Mindanao
regions. With the development of the existing unused potential by the end of
this century, the relative share of Mindanao will have risen to about 30%,
while that of Luzon will have stabilized around 60%. Of the total irrigated
area of 1.2 million ha, about 35% represents gravity systems, 49% communal
systems, and 16% pump irrigation and other systems. The potential for the
development of the generally very small, multipurpose water impounding schemes
has been tapped only to a relatively small degree, primarily by large indivi-
dual farmers. The agency responsible for the construction and operation of
large irrigation systems is the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a
government corporation with which the Bank has collaborated on a number of
projects. NIA works closely with the Farm Systems Development Corporation
(FSDC) which is responsible for assisting smallholders in the formation of
viable groups for the purpose of operating communal irrigation systems. In
its efforts to design a national program for reducing soil erosion, the Bureau
of Soils (BS) has recently proposed the construction of some 600 small water
impounding schemes. Implementation would be under the overall direction of
the newly formed small water impounding management (SWIM) committee.
1.17      Extension.  About 15 government ministries and agencies provide
varying forms of rural extension. The MOA, however, is primarily responsible,
through its five line bureaus, for the dissemination of technical information



- 5 -
in the fields of crop and livestock production, home management, nutrition and
rural youth development. W4here staff of other agencies are involved in
similar activities some overlap does occur. In most cases, however, informal
agreements exist concerning their respective roles. Extension services for
coconut, sugar, tobacco and cotton are provided by special commodity-specific
agencies most of which are supervised by MOA.
1.18      Within the MOA there are about R,600 technical staff, 90% of whom
have tertiary level degrees. Both the ratio of extension workers to farm
families and the level of basic academic training of extension workers in the
Philippines are favorable relative to other countries in Asia: however, the
effectiveness of the extension service has been held back by: (a) workers'
lack of training in extension methodology; (b) a shortage of equipment and
facilities for field level training and demonstration: (c) inadequate mobility
of extension staff owing to a scarcity of vehicles- (d) inadequate links bet-
ween research and extension which are handled by separate MOA bureaus; and
(e) unclear lines of command between the national, regional and field levels.
A major effort has been initiated by the Ministry, with Bank support, to reor-
ganize and strengthen the extension service. Tn particular this includes!
(a) the establishment of a more unified extension service and closer coordina-
tion between research and extension! (b) provision of vehicles, communication,
and demonstration and training equipment* and (c) implementation of a staffing
and training program to increase the number of trained extension staff
including the provision of additional subject matter specialist positions and
livestock extension technicians.
1.19       Research.  The standard of agricultural research in the Philippines
is relatively high. 7or the past 40 years, the IJniversity of the Philippines
in Los Banos (UPLB) has been internationally recognized as a center for
tropical agriculture training and research. It has been strengthened through
three Bank education loans as well as various other sources of aid. Its
capacity was further strengthened by the establishment of the International
Rice Research Institute, adjacent to the university complex. Furthermore, the
agricultural research done at TJPLB, IRRI and the various MOA and private
research stations are coordinated and evaluated by the Philippine Council for
Agricultural and Resources Research (PCARR). Major functions of PCARR are the
formulation of research programs and the packaging of technology for promotion
by the extension service. Likewise, the National Nutrition Council, together
with ministries and such agencies as the National Media Production Center, the
Nutrition Center of the Philippines and the Food and Nutrition Research
Institute (FNRI) are particularly competent in drawing up nutrition technology
packages suitable for national programs.
1.20       Training.  The agricultural education and training system, at the
higher level, consists of about 46 colleges giving degree courses in general
agriculture, Is in forestry, 21 in animal science, and 4 in veterinary medi-
cine. Within this system, the UJniversity of the Philippines offers the best
quality instruction. At the postsecondary level, more than 60 schools gradu-
ate about o00 technicians each year in poultry or pig husbandry, farm
mechanics and forestry. Middle-level training in animal disease and protec-
tion has been started only very recently. Systematic and coordinated programs



-6-
for effective training of extension workers and farmers also had not been
developed in the Philippines until recently. Beyond this, however, training
tends to be seen as essentially a classroom activity and not as an essential
part of, or supplement to, experience gained on the job.  Particularly at
the local level this limits the effectiveness of the existing training effort.
1.21      Assisted by the Bank-supported Fourth Education project, the Govern-
ment is now in the process of establishing an improved agricultural education
system comprising (a) apex institutions at the national level; (b) one agri-
cultural college with high standards in each of three major regions, sur-
rounded by selected colleges and agricultural high schools serving as
vocational/technical training centers; (c) experimental agricultural high
schools; (d) postsecondary two-year technician training programs; and (e)
systems of training extension workers and farmers leaders.  The latter is to
be accomplished through the establishment of the Philippine Training Center
for Rural Development (PTC-RD), initially consisting of a National Training
Center at UPLB, five Regional Training Centers and five Farmer Training
Centers. However, none of these are to be located in Western Visayas.
1.22      Agricultural Credit.  The period 1970-73 was one of highly adverse
weather causing a substantial fall in rice production. To counteract the
decline in crop production, the Government launched massive supervised credit
programs in 1973, notably Masagana 99 for rice and Masaganang M4aisan for corn.
The programs succeeded in reaching a large number of small-scale farmers as
well as in boosting total production. However, after only a brief period,
these programs experienced a sharply declining trend with regard to the number
of borrowers and loans granted.
1.23      Poor loan repayment has been the major cause of this decline, partly
due to crop losses caused by natural calamities but also due to the over-
stocking of the credit delivery and recovery system in pursuit of emergency
production targets dictated by the 1970-73 crisis. Credit was extended
generously to borrowers ill-equipped to use it effectively. Borrowers in
arrears are disqualified from further borrowing and rural banks with high
arrears are similarly disqualified from rediscounting seasonal crop loans made
by them to farmers with the Central Bank under generous terms. Now that rice
production is no longer a critical issue, Government policy is shifting more
to selective lending, according to the debt repayment capacity of the would-be
borrowers, coupled with more rigorous technical and farm management support to
ensure better use of the resources available to the farmers. Selective
restructuring of loans and an ongoing program of rehabilitation for rural
banks will gradually requalify many borrowers and lenders to avail themselves
of additional Central Bank credit facilities.
1.24      Agricultural Marketing and Storage.  Traditionally, the marketing
and storage of food crops and livestock have been functions performed by the
private trading sector.  This is still largely the case for livestock and for
crops other than cereals, while an increasing share of the marketing of
foodgrains, feedgrains and pulses has been assumed by the National Grains
Authority (NGA). The private trading sector is a complex system of market



-7-
intermediaries who interact in the buying, transport, storage, processing and
financing of agricultural commodities. Storage facilities are owned primarily
by millers as independent warehousing activities have become financially less
attractive in recent years due to government control of marketing margins.
1.25      Participation in marketing by producer organizations is relatively
minor, although Government is supporting the formation of cooperatives. The
oldest type of such organizations are the municipal Farmers Cooperative
Marketing Associations (FACOMAs). These are relatively loosely organized
cooperatives, originally registered, supervised and financed by the Agricul-
tural Credit Administration (ACA), which own warehousing and milling facili-
ties and operate with a minimum of government supervision. Of more recent
origin are the Farmers Associations (FAs), which have been promoted by the
MOA, primarily to strengthen the farmers' voice in matters of common interest
and to facilitate group actions where appropriate; FAs perform some marketing
functions, especially retailing, but rarely own extensive facilities. The
present cooperative concept, under the auspices of the Mfinistry of Local
Government and Community Development (MLGCD), consists of a two-phase approach
to the formation of marketing cooperatives. First, farmers are to join
Samahang Nayons, which are small precooperative groups intended to instill
in farmers cooperative thinking and familiarize them with cooperative
practices./1 After a certain period and meeting specific conditions, a
number of Samahang Nayons are expected to group together to form an Area
Marketing Cooperative (AHC).
1.26      The National Grains Authority originally was established to imple-
ment Government's grain policies, both through industry regulations and
through market intervention, the basic premise being that NG.A would not dis-
place the private sector. NGA has acquired storage, milling and transport
facilities and been given sufficient working capital, both through direct
Government appropriation and a line of bank credit. It also has a monopoly on
import and export of grains. Although it was originally anticipated that NGA
would be able to stabilize prices with a market participation of 10-15%o, the
national average participation rate has been higher in recent: years.
Human Nutrition - Conditions and Services
1.27      Until 1974, the Philippines did not have a clearly defined policy
on nutrition that was supported by the highest levels of national leadership.
Although initial efforts had been made to coordinate nutrition activities,
there still remained the task of organizing a system to oversee program imple-
mentation from the national to the barangay levels.  The simultaneous estab-
lishment in 1974 of the National Nutrition Council (NNC) and the Nutrition
Center of the Philippines (NCP) expressed in concrete terms the Government's
/1 Cultivators participating in land reform programs are required to be
memlbers of a Samahang Nayon.



concern for an integrated nutrition program and its resolve to marshall
effectively the technical expertise and financial resources of the public and
private sector. The Ministries of Agriculture and Education are the main
agencies responsible for promoting the preventive and technical aspects of the
Philippine Nutrition Program, while the Ministries of Health and Social
Services (MSS) are concerned with monitoring and remedial activities.
Supporting these activities at the village level is a cadre of specially
trained workers, known as Barangay Nutrition Scholars (BNS), of which there
will be one stationed in every barangay in the 1980s.
1.28      Malnutrition is widespread in the Philippines and poses a recognized
national problem of major social and economic significance. The most common
types of malnutrition found are (i) energy-protein malnutrition, (ii) iron-
deficiency anemia, (iii) vitamin A deficiency and (iv) iodine deficiency.
Food consumption surveys report an average deficit of about 16% for calories
and 5% for protein, but these figures do not take into account distributional
inequality, both among and within households. Repeated attacks of diarrhea
and other infections or infestations play a major role in the onset or aggra-
vation of malnutrition and the high rate of sudden deaths among the young.
Over half the population have hemoglobin levels indicative of iron-deficiency
anemia, which lowers productivity, increases susceptibility to infectious
diseases and adds to the risk of maternal mortality and below average birth
weight. Parasitic infestation is also prevalent, with ascaris infection
being the most widespread. This parasite can aggravate anemia and results in
reduced utilization of ingested calories.
2. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The project area for agricultural development and marketing includes
all the lowlands of Iloilo province, excluding irrigated areas and Guimaras
Island; the nutrition component covers selected areas throughout the province.
Some agricultural trials would also be conducted in Mindanao. Iloilo is a
province in the Western Visayas region, which also includes the provinces of
Capiz, Aklan, Antique and Negros Occidental, and is located in the south-
eastern part of Panay Island. It has a total land area of 532,397 ha, repre-
senting 26.3% of the total area of Western Visayas and 1.8% of the total land
area of the country. The province has 46 municipalities, with Iloilo City as
its capital, and 1,785 barangays. Its population is approximately 1.4 mil-
lion, of which 72% is rural and 28% urban. Literacy is high and approximately
71% of farm operators finished elementary school, 12% high school and 5%
college. Only 12% did not have any formal schooling.
Agricultural Production
2.02      About 319,000 ha or 60% of Iloilo's land area is under cultivation
as shown, broken down by major crops, in Table 2.1. Nearly half of the culti-
vable area is upland cropping where water cannot be collected in paddies, but



- 9 -
upland rice may be grown as well as many other crops.  Rice is by far the most
important crop grown and with the large area together with good yields, Iloilo
now is the major rice-producing province in the country. Less than 50,000 ha
is irrigatied, and an area of 100,000-120,000 ha produces rice under rainfed
conditions where rainfall water is impounded in paddies. Of this area, 60,000
ha (about half of the rainfed rice area) which includes the bulk of the
farmers who have the resources to adopt the technology, but have not yet done
so, would be included in the project.
2.03      The project area has traditionally grown one transplaLnted long-
season rice crop per year in the wet months. As a result of the IRRI/BPI
outreach site results and the Kabsaka project (para. 2.14), some farmers have
started early dry or wet seeding practices with their first crop of rice in
order to allow time for a second crop or rotations with corn, sorghum, mung,
peanuts or vegetables. On some areas reported under the Masagana 99 program
in 1977, first crop yields averaged 4.6 tons/ha with irrigation and 3.6
tons/ha in rainfed areas, although overall provincial averages were below
these levels. Second crop yields were 3.4 and 2.4/ha, respectively. Yields
in recent years under the Outreach and Kabsaka programs have been even more
encouraging. The great majority of farmers in the irrigated and rainfed rice
areas use high yielding varieties (HYVs). Nitrogen rates used are not optimal
but are adequate for 3.5 ton/ha yields. All farmers recognize the need for
herbicides when dry or wet direct seeding methods are used.
2.04      Other annual crops grown in the rainfed areas are green corn and
corn for grain, mung and (near markets) several vegetables and melons. Hybrid
sorghum has recently been introduced and is grown on a few hundred hectares.
It is yielding 1.8-2.0 tons/ha - about 60% more than grain corn, with poten-
tial for even higher yields. Mung yields are low at 0.4 to 0.5 tons/ha.
2.05      Farmers in the rainfed areas rely mostly on animal power for land
preparation but small hand tractors are being introduced rapidLy.  Large
tractors are now being made readily available for dry season tillage by con-
tractors idled by the sugar acreage reductions but, with the price of fuel
increasing, their costs are becoming almost prohibitive. The portable IRRI
type mechanical threshers are being manufactured locally and their numbers
are increasing in the area. Mechanization will be important to the rapid
expansion of multiple cropping.
2.06      Although actual figures for Iloilo province are not available,
several thousand head of backyard livestock are being raised under various
projects.  It is estimated that of the total number of livestock in the
province, 10% are cattle, 27% hogs, 43% goats and 20% carabao. Poor husbandry
and inferior animals in these enterprises result in low productivity.
Substantial improvement in animal yields and returns to the backyard animal
raisers can be achieved by providing better technical guidance, improved
stock, and production credit on more adequate terms.  Livestock marketing in
Iloilo is well-developed with regular shipments out of the port to Manila and
other provinces.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: AREA OF MAJOR CROPS IN ILOILO PROVINCE, 1976
Hectares /a
Rice
Irrigated lowland                                     40,910
Rainfed lowland                                      128,920
Upland                                                 5,640
Corn                                                    23,100
Coconut                                                 36,450
Abaca                                                      437
Sugarcane                                               40,430
Mung                                                     1,210
Root crops                                               7,880
Vegetables                                              18,950
Bananas & other fruit trees                             14,990
/a Excluding Guimaras Island.
Source: Bureau of Agriculural Economics.
2.07      According to the 1970 census estimates, about 56% of farmers in
Iloilo province were full or part owners, and 42% tenants. Land reform bene-
ficiaries would participate in the Project. The average farm size in the
province is estimated to be about 2 ha.
Climate
2.08      Iloilo has a humid tropical climate which is characterized by a
temperature regime whose monthly average ranges from 25.50C in January and
27.30C in March. Relative humidity ranges from 74.8% to 84.8% (monthly
mean). Day-length changes by only 1 hour and 10 minutes in a 12-month period.
The province is south of the typhoon areas of the Philippines, and of the
yearly average of 7.5 typhoons that hit the country, less than 0.6 per year
pass Iloilo or south of the province. November and December are the most
likely typhoon months.
2.09      The province has a yearly rainfall that usually exceeds 2,000 mm
and a distribution pattern that has at least five-to-six months with more than
200 mm _ rain. About 70% of annual rainfall comes in the wet months. The
northeastern areas have eight or more wet months /2 and are wetter compared
to the southwestern areas which have five-to-six wet months. Although the
eight or more wet months per year in the Northeast are more favorable for more
/1 Approximately 200 mm of rain/month is needed for rice and the term wet is
used in this report for those months averaging more than 200 mm rain.
/2 See Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.



- 11 -
intensive land use, two or three crops per year have been successfully grown
at Oton and other southern towns. The onset of rain, normally in May can
vary from late April to exceptionally late June and late monsoonal rains can
be erratic, both of which cause some problems with double cropping.
Land Resources
2.10      The potential for more than one rainfed rice crop and multiple
cropping in a given rainfall situation depends highly on thte soil texture and
the landscape position. These latter two factors may strongly modify the
effects of climatic factors and the water regime in a given location or field.
The north central portion of Iloilo province is mountainous sloping off
towards the ocean to the south, east and west into a series of small hills
90-180 m in height and mini-valleys. Streams and valleys f:Lowing from this
hilly area have formed alluvial plains before emptying into the ocean.
Except for the large plain surrounding Iloilo City, they are small in area.
The plains tend to have heavier soils with the water table nearer the surface
and receding with the onset of the dry season less rapidly than in higher
elevations. Drainage is a problem in low plateaus and lower portions of the
plains where there is little vertical drop between paddies. Water in side
slopes which are terraced or bunded and do not exceed 8-10% slope can be
accumulated or drained only during the rainy season but one crop of rice
followed by an upland crop can be grown. There is a decreasing "Flood Status"
(at least 1 mm of standing water) frequently during the rainy season when pro-
gressing from the plains to the higher elevations. High yielding first rice
crops or single rice crops can be expected in all landscape positions in
Iloilo.
2.11      The soils of the project area are slightly acid except for the fine
textured clays of the alluvial plains. These are neutral or slightly alka-
line. Except for small areas of one minor soil type, the soils of the project
area have high cation exchange capacities ranging from 22-85 meq. They are
moderately to slightly deficient in phosphorus and variable in potash avail-
ability with some soils in the Sara area reported to be quite low but others
adequate.  As stated above, all soils can produce rice but the lower landscape
plains with heavy textured soils are best suited. These areas, especially
near Iloilo City, produce vegetables quite well also. The lighter soils at
the higher landscape positions are well suited to upland crops and are easier
to till. Santa Rita and Umingan series are the most fertile and as seen
below, comprise 60% of the project area.
2.12      The distribution of soil types by series in the project area is
estimated by the Bureau of Soils to be as follows:



- 12 -
Santa Rita clay                                      40
Umingan Fine sandy loam                              20
Alimodian clay loam                                   16
Sara sandy loam                                      10
San Rafael loam                                       8
Barotac loam                                          6
100
The Irrigation Situation and Potential
2.13      NIA has completed six irrigation systems in Iloilo (29,600 ha) of
which four (24,700 ha) are now under rehabilitation under the Jalaur Irriga-
tion Project (Loan No. 1367-PH). There are also 26 communal irrigation
projects under NIA/FSDC covering an area of 4,800 ha, and 636 pump schemes
with an area of 7,000 ha. Fifty-nine other communal irrigation systems,
covering an area of 2,800 ha, are privately owned and operated. In addition
to the present Lrrigated area of 44,200 ha, NIA plans to develop 13,000 ha
through the construction of a multipurpose storage dam in an extension of the
Jalaur River Project and 4,000 ha in the northeastern part of the province
along the Asue River. Since the potential irrigable area in the province is
about 70,000 ha, there is little further potential to develop additional
irrigation by any large-scale project after completion of the proposed expan-
sion. There are, however, a large number of potential sites for small-scale
water storage in smaller valleys in the low hills surrounding the central
plain and in the northern hills. These dams would have limited storage capa-
city but would provide supplementary water supplies to adjacent areas which
generally are at too high an elevation to be served by major irrigation
systems and in which elevation and medium water holding capacity of soils
results in an above average risk of drought stress to a second rainfed rice
crop planted iri September.
Experience with the Kabsaka Project /1
2.14      Kabsaka is an agricultural production intervention program whose
primary aim is to increase the intensity with which limited land resources
are to be cropped. This program is particularly relevant for Iloilo where
almost all arable lands are now under cultivation and population density is
high. To hasten the adoption of more intensive crop production technology,
Kabsaka provides participating farmers with: (i) technical support through
a qualified agricultural technician; (ii) production credit not only for
rice but also for other annual crops; and (iii) an assured market for all
farm products.
/1 "Kabusugan sa Kaumahan" which means bounty in the farm.



- 13 -
2.15      Kabsaka was started by BAEx in 1974 in Santa Barbara as an applied
cropping system research effort conducted jointly with IRRI, PCARR and BPI.
Starting with two farmers in a 2,000 sq m area, a production of 1.9 tons for
the first crop, or an equivalent yield of 9.5 tons/ha was obtained, thus
generating keen interest from surrounding farmers. In the second year, nine
farmers covering 25 ha participated with as high a productivity as the first
year. By 1978, prime responsibility for the effort was assumed by BAEx, and
the majority of the farmers in the project site (317 farmers covering 465 ha)
were participating in the program. In 1979, the program is being extended to
two other areas in the province, and some 600 farmers are participating. The
most successful pattern has been an early rice crop that is dry seeded just
before the first monsoon-rain in late April or early May, followed by a wet
seeded rice in early September and then a legume in early JanuLary. Rice
yields have averaged more than 3.75 ton/ha/harvest.
2.16      In addition to substantiating the potential for increased produc-
tivity, Kabsaka has also brought into focus some attendant problems that go
with increased productivity. Some of these are: (a) possible labor shortages
during the months of August and September when the first rice crop is being
harvested and the second crop is being seeded (para. 5.17); (b) grain drying
during the first rice harvest (para. 2.37); (c) marketing of large quantities
of grain, some of low quality, that are harvested during the wet months
(para. 4.08); (d) higher probability of crop failure, especially on the second
crop which is planted later than the traditional crop (para. '5.09 and 7.15).
Experience with Kabsaka clearly shows that solutions to these problems are
essential if the program is to be expanded to cover the whole province.
Rural Institutions and Programs in Iloilo
2.17      Extension Services.  The MOA has a staff of 600 in Iloilo Province
of whom 445 are engaged in field activities. BAEx and BPI (431 field staff)
are engaged primarily in crop extension. Staffing is heavy allowing a ratio
of 150-250 farmers per technician. This ratio is deceptive, however, because
of the commodity orientation of the services which fragment farm-level effort.
Thus, a rice technician under Masagana 99 advises only rice farmers and a corn
technician under Masaganang Maisan only corn farmers. The BA][ has 32 field
staff whose major effort is directed at disease control, quarantine and
regulatory functions and a more limited program of breeding stock improvement
and local market development. Extension effort in livestock iis limited and
the link between livestock and crop services weak.
2.18      In contrast to the single crop focus of existing agricultural
production programs, a reorientation has been initiated under the National
Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH), which will assist farmers in all aspects
of their production activity. Thus, a farm management technician will
advise his farmer cooperators not only on rice but on all crops and animals
to be raised on the farm. The existing field level technicians are being
reorganiZed. At present both BAEx and BPI have field level staff dealing
primarily with crop work. These two staffs are being combined. In addition
to organizational changes, the National Extension Project provides vehicles,
equipment, offices and training for the extension services and will improve
extension methodology. The project has been under implementation since



- 14 -
mid-1979 and a number of regions, including Western Visayas, have already
received vehicles and some staff training; implementation of organizational
changes are expected soon, pending decisions at the highest levels in
Government.
2.19      Training.  Field extension staff of MOA are required to hold a B.S.
degree in general agriculture.  The primary source of staff is the University
of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) which is pre-eminent amongst over 50
colleges in the country giving first degree courses in general agriculture and
21 in animal science. Three of these institutions are located in Iloilo--the
University of Iloilo; the Central Philippines University and the Iloilo
National College of Agriculture at Lambunau, but these, at present, make only
a limited contribution to staff training in the province. Responsibility for
in-service training of staff is largely centered in Manila and most
in-service programs are carried out at UPLB and IRRI. There is no MOA
officer in Iloilo qualified in training with responsibility for training
analysis and planning work, and much in-service training tends not to be well
tailored to local needs as national programs, however well conceived, are
often difficult to adapt to local situations when participants are taken to
national or regional centers rather than being trained closer to their work
environment. However, specialized technical staff have been appointed at
provincial and regional levels in BAEx recently and they have an increasing
training role. The National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH) will add more
SMS and introduce systematic training of junior field staff.
2.20      Responsibility for farmer training is fragmented between the many
agencies involved in rural extension work and adult education programs
sponsored by the Ministry of Education. Farmer training by ]3AEx in recent
years has followed a "master farmer approach" whereby successful farmers are
selected by extension staff to attend formal training courses with the
intention that they provide a model for others to follow, but the numbers
involved have been relatively small and their impact limited. There is,
however, a growing recognition of the need for rural programs to move towards
greater transfer of responsibility for the planning and achievement of rural
development goals to the rural people themselves. Support to rural communi-
ties to help them initiate their own improvements are planned through pro-
grams of the Philippine Training Center for Rural Development (PTC-RD) in the
IDA financed Education IV Project, Loan 1374-PH. These, and other, initia-
tives are at present proceeding on an ad-hoc basis and there is clearly a
need to establish manpower development priorities and clear responsibilities
for training and to improve training and management capabilities at local
levels. The strengthening of the existing system of Action Committees at
barangay and municipality levels through training and guidance to improve
their performance could be of great importance in promoting development. All
this requires a concentration of input which is largely beyond the scope of
national programs.
2.21      Research Services.  New technological packages for extension to
farmers are developed by research institutions both at the provincial and
national level. In the province of Iloilo itself, BPI, BAEx and BAI cooper-
ate with national and international research institutions in conducting
adaptive research for crops and animals in the different municipalities of



- 15 -
the province. Examples of these activities are the multiple cropping trials
in Oton and Tigbauan where the BPI and IRRI test the productivity and
profitability of new cropping patterns in 15 to 30 farms under the joint
management of researchers and farmers. Kabsaka (para. 2.14) is another
cooperative work of BAEx, PCARR, NFAC and IRRI where a new production package
is tested on a commercial scale in a selected barangay. Regular experimental
and adaptive research work is undertaken at BPI's four experiment stations in
the province. In the livestock sector, the demonstration trials on goats,
swine and cattle at Miagao are a joint activity of the provincial and national
staff of the BAI.
2.22      Seed Production and Distribution.  At present, most of the seed
requirements of Iloilo are supplied by BPI and the Iloilo Seed Growers Asso-
ciation (ISGA). BPI, with its Iloilo Seed Farm at Santa Barbara, produces the
basic vegetable seeds and the Visayas Rice Experiment station at Taro, Iloilo
City the required foundation seeds of rice, corn and sorghum. The seed
production area is 4 ha at the Seed Farm and 45 ha at the Experiment Station.
The basic seeds are distributed to the Iloilo Seed Growers Association for
multiplication, supervised by 13 BPI Seed Inspectors. Seed samples are
analyzed at BPI's Regional Seed Testing Laboratory, located at Visayas Rice
Experiment Station.
2.23      The Iloilo Seed Growers Association had 58 members in 1978, who had
approximately 1,000 ha in seed production. Since it has no storage facilities
of its own, the ISGA has to rely on commercial warehouse space, where seeds
frequently get adulterated with nonseed palay. Seed distribution to farmers
is mainly through 23 accredited municipal seed dealers who are under the
supervision of ISGA and BPI Inspectors. While the seed production and
distribution system in the province is relatively well developed, it is
inadequate to meet current and future needs and personnel, facilities and
procedures need to be strengthened. Medium-term financing for seed storage
is available under the Grain Processing II project (Loan 1269-PH).
2.24      Credit Institutions.  The present total agricultural credit require-
ment in Iloilo province is estimated at P 357 million, about half of which
is met by informal credit. All the major credit agencies purveying rural
credit in the Philippines are represented in the province. There are 38 rural
banks, two branches of PNB, and one each of ACA, DBP and LBP. One of the
rural banks is a cooperative bank with 130 member Samahang Nayons (SN) organi-
zed in 1975. Seven rural banks are approved for Integrated Agricultural
Financing (IAF) credit; under the IAF scheme, a single loan is made to farmers
covering all crops falling into a given 12-month period. There are also
several Commercial Banks which provide credit for marketing but generally not
for smallholder agricultural production.  The PNB and rural banks cater to the
bulk of the production credit requirements of the farmers in the area which
are provided mainly under Masagana 99. In line with nationaLl experience loans
under this program have fallen sharply because of poor recovery and consequent
farmer ineligibility. Poor recoveries have made some of the rural banks
ineligible for rediscounting from the Central Bank. This, in turn, has led to
denial of credit facilities even to prompt repayers of some of the rural banks



- 16 -
as the latter do not have enough resources of their own to continue rural
lending without the assistance of CB. Seven rural banks in the province were
in such a situation in May 1979. The efforts currently underway to divorce
BAEx staff from credit recovery work will have staffing implications for the
banks which point towards a greater need for bank staff training. Ample
credit resources are currently available in the local banking system, which
has access to the proceeds of several World Bank loans (Fourth Rural Credit,
Loan 1399-PH; Second Livestock, Loan 1225-PH; Small Farmers Development (Land
Bank), Loan 1646-PH; and Grain Processing II, Loan 1269-PH).
2.25      Marketing Institutions.  The private trading sector is the dominant
force involved in the marketing of agricultural commodities in Iloilo.
Although NGA has a high profile in the rice trade, its quantitative share of
total trade is small. In 1978, it purchased only 15,000 tons out of a total
provincial production of about 480,000 tons. Total commercial. sales were
about 240,000 tons. Since 1975, it has been purchasing and storing palay and
by May 1979 had approximately 60,000 tons in storage in the province.
Available commercial storage, i.e., that in warehouses and at rice mills, is
estimated to be approximately 80,000 tons. In addition to its own storage NGA
has rented a significant share of privately owned storage and is now utilizing
approximately 75% of total available capacity in the province. This has
placed a significant strain on private traders who must now operate with
storage equivalent to only about 8% of annual purchases.
2.26      NGA's tentative plans and uncertain future role in the sector during
the mid-1970s inhibited investment in the province by the private sector.
Lack of unused storage capacity reduced the ability of NGA and private trade
to purchase at harvest periods and forced increased storage by the farmers and
intermediaries. In particular, incentives to traders to purchase from areas
with poor road access had been reduced and sharp price discounts applied when
palay offered was of low quality, particularly because of high moisture
content. NGA increased exports in 1979 and 10,000 tons were expected to be
shipped from Iloilo by midyear. At that time, further shipments were deemed
necessary to free storage capacity and allow markets to operate effectively.
NGA is currently completing a major storage and milling facility and plans two
more for completion by 1981. These will provide an additional 35,000 tons of
storage and 30,000 tons of annual milling capacity.
2.27      There are various farmer organizations performing marketing func-
tions, but their impact is small. Although 1,500 farmers associations exist
in the province, only about 400 are active and only a few engage in commodity
trading and storage activities. There are six FACOMAs operating in the pro-
vince with varying success. The business volume of these is relatively small,
although they enjoy considerable farmer support in the areas where they
operate. Lack of working capital and of general Government support has
reduced the number of FACOMAs functioning in recent years and has handicapped
the development of those still surviving.
2.28      The Samahang Nayon movement promoted by MLGCD is fairly widespread
in Iloilo, although it has not advanced far beyond the initial stages and
progress is very slow. By 1978, 695 SNs, with about 27,400 farmer members,
had been organized, of which 94% had been registered. Their activities in



- 17 -
marketing have been minor. In 1974, the First Iloilo Area Marketing Coopera-
tive, Inc. was formed and presently has 4,130 farmer members belonging to 116
member SNs. The total farm area served by this AMC is 6,660 ha, covering 11
municipaliLties and palay production originating from this area was 23,000 t
in 1978. It operates a small rice mill in Santa Barbara, owns storage for
some 800 t and two trucks, and engages in palay and fertilizer trade. The
Second Iloilo AMC, with 83 member SNs in 14 municipalities is currently in
formation.
2.29      Local livestock marketing in Iloilo is relatively well developed
in some parts of the province, with seven operational markets located in
Jordan, Janiuay, Leon, Miagao, Cabatuan, Calinog and Passi. One more is under
construction in San Joaquin and six others are being proposed to cover the
north and northeast. Live cattle are transported regularly tc' Manila by ship.
However, with the rapidly growing livestock population, continuing
improvements in livestock marketing and processing are essential.
2.30      Nutrition in Rural Areas.  The most prevalent illness of nutri-
tional importance is diarrhea. For Iloilo province, excluding Iloilo City,
tentative estimates point toward 429,000 cases of young-child diarrhea per
year with an annual mortality of over 2,500 children under six years of age.
Some 48% of the Ilongo population is anemic. The apparent adequacy of iron
intake suggests that the widespread anemia occurrence may be related to poor
iron absorption or utilization and iron loss as well as dietary factors. The
intake of Vitamin C, which enhances iron absorption, has shown a decrease of
21.5% over the decade 1965-75. Hookworm, which could in part explain the
anemia prevalence, was found in 12.5% of the population.
2.31      All of Iloilo's 43 municipalities have an organized Municipal
Nutrition Council and a Nutrition Action Plan.  Almost all barangays have an
organized Barangay Nutrition Council.  By mid-1979, some 50 BNSs had received
training and were in position. Plans call for the training of 200 more BNSs
over the next two years. These BNS work mostly under the teclhnical guidance
of Home Management Technicians (HMTs). Iloilo would receive the full
complement of HMTs (one per municipality) allocated from the Bank-assisted
National Extension Project. One major new program is the Panay Unified
Services for Health (PUSH) which aims at improving the health status of the
residents of 600 low-income barangays in Panay Island, 300 of which are
located in Iloilo. With a USAID-assisted budget of US$9.7 million, the
project envisages over a five-year period to recruit, train and equip 600
Barangay Health Workers; to construct or improve 280 deep wells, 1,200 shallow
wells, 5,400 open-dug wells and 40,000 water-sealed toilets; to establish
village drugstores; to supply 100 Rural Health Units; to equip four provincial
health laboratories; and to provide nutrition and family planning outreach
services.
Existing Infrastructure and Future Needs
2.32      Roads.  The province of Iloilo has a total road length of 3,310 km.
Table 2.4 shows the existing roads in the province by type and administration.



- 18 -
Table 2.4: EXISTING ROADS BY TYPE AND ADMINISTRATION
ILOILO PROVINCE, 1978 /a
Administration    Concrete       Asphalt      Gravel      Unsurfaced    Total
------------------ (road length in km) ----------------
National            117.39       132.66       367.19             -        617.24
Provincial           10.36          7.11      759.27           39.37      816.11
Municipal             77.58       25.42       289.75          126.80      519.55
Barangay                -           -         271.25       1,085.00    1,356.24
Total             205.33       165.19    1,687.46        1,251.17    3,309.14
Percentage         (6.20)       (4.99)      (50.99)        (37.82)    (100.00)
/a  Excludes the city of Iloilo and subprovince of Guimaras.
Source: Provincial Development Staff, Iloilo.
2.33      Provincial roads are built by the Provincial Engineer's Office
(PEO), which is responsible for maintenance. Since 1974, through the
Provincial Development Assistnce Program (PDAP), USAID has been providing
financial and technical assistance to develop planning, implementing and
equipment capabilities for provincial roads. About 70% of provincial and
barangay roads are considered to be in fairly bad condition. About 25% of
1,988 barangay roads are not yet linked with major transportation routes;
the roads are constructed to low standard, are barely maintained and have
temporary bridges in varying stages of disrepair. Of 270 bridges of 7,755 m
more than 50% are temporary. Barangay roads are constructed and maintained
by the Ministry of Public Highways (MPH). The Bureau of Barangay Roads
(BBR) was established under the MPH under Presidential Decree No. 702 in
1975. Though inadequate, Government allocates P 2,500/km annually for
maintenance of barangay roads. During floods, most of these barangay roads
suffer drainage congestion and, due to lack of maintenance, become
impassable. Dislocation of transportation frequently impedes movement of
agricultural production. Equipment needed for road maintenance in Iloilo,
both under MPH (BBR) and the PEO, is inadequate. The Iloilo PEO initiated a
loan of P 32.55 million for the purchase of 158 units of construction,
maintenance and support equipment in a five-year acquisition schedule, with
delivery starting in 1979.
2.34      Since ongoing road improvement efforts are not sufficient to meet
the needs of the province, Iloilo has been included in the Rural Roads
project, implementation of which is expected to start in the fall of 1980.
Under that project, for which external assistance is likely, rural roads and
bridges in the Project area will be improved. Institutions maintaining the
roads also will be strengthened. Since implementation of the Rural Roads
project and this project would be concurrent, poor roads would no longer pose
a serious constraint.



- 19 -
2.35      Storage, Processing and Shipment Facilities.  The total existing
storage capacity in the province is estimated at 80,000 t in mid.-1979. Of
this, 64 warehouses in 26 locations with a capacity of 49,300 t, or 68% of
total capacity, represented private commercial storage. The remainder is
owned by NGA which also had ten buying stations in Iloilo. NGA's purchase and
storage policy placed considerable strain on available storage capacity in
1978/79 (para. 2.26). As of the end of 1978, there were 1,092 rice mills in
the province, of which 93 were of the cono type and 999 were mobile "kiskisan"
units. NGA operated 2 owned and 14 leased mills, and the rest were operated
privately. The capacity is adequate to meet existing demand, although
operations are hampered by storage difficulties.
2.36      It is estimated that over the period of development of the Project,
annual paddy production in the province would have increased by 100,000 tons
(or 21%), of which 57,000 tons would be generated by the Project. NGA is
constructing two new facilities with a milling capacity of 30,000 tons/year
and storage capacity of 32,000 tons. It is anticipated that private sector
milling capacity will be increased by extension to ten existing rice mills
and construction of five new mills, which with a modest increase in local
kiskisan mills will be adequate to meet needs during the project: period.
Storage facilities linked to these mills and an increase of 10% storage capa-
city on farms, i.e., baskets, small huts, etc., will be adequate to meet local
needs. Financing for postharvest facilities, including storage, is available
under the Grain Processing II project (Loan 1269-PH).
2.37      The Project would increase the level of production of palay during
the August-September period by about 110% from 80,000 t to 166,000 t. This is
generally the wettest part of the monsoon when problems of drying and market-
ing are to be expected. Given the degree of uncertainty which exists as to
the extent of these problems and the high costs of mechanical drying it is
anticipated that drying would be largely carried out manually. However, there
are indications that about 30 driers would be installed by the private sector
with a total daily capacity of 60 tons per day. NGA already has plans to
install 3 continuous driers with a daily capacity of 50 tons at its new
facilities. This combined capacity is 15% of the expected supplies during the
peak drying season and sufficient to meet immediate Project needs while
technical and financial alternatives are being further investigated.
2.38      The Project would result in incremental annual production of 20,000
tons of pulses and other grains. Much of this output would be marketed
through the same channels as for rice. Since this incremental output would
amount to about 8% of the present commercial sales of palay and its market
period would not directly overlap with palay marketing, it is anticipated that
the local imarketing system would be able to handle this quantity without
difficulty. Eight municipalities are planning to initiate livestock markets
supervised by BAI. The Project would provide supervisors for these markets
(para. 3.11). Shipments of livestock to other islands (principally Luzon)
would be by existing private steamer. An additional vessel is being
considered by the existing carrier and would not be funded by the Project.



- 20 -
2.39       The Philippines is beginning to export rice on a somewhat regular
basis using the ports of Manila, Iloilo and Cebu. The quality of rice
currently exported is relatively poor and the price received therefore low.
Facilities for assembling 5,000 ton lots for export shipment in Iloilo City
are inadequate. There is no warehouse near the port with adequate capacity
and rice for shipment is assembled from a number of locations. Delays, caused
by the need for rebagging grain, are frequent. There is a need for an
adequate bag storage facility, preferably adjacent to the existing port, with
standardization and bagging equipment.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Identification and Preparation
3.01       A national program to promote multiple cropping as a means to raise
farm productivity was initiated in May 1971 by the National Food and Agricul-
ture Council. With support from IRRI, pilot areas covering 60,000 ha were
selected, including a whole province (Pampanga) and 18 municipalities from 11
other provinces (para. 1.11). Iloilo and another pilot province and some
additional municipalities were added later. In Iloilo the testing of cropping
patterns began in 1974 in three municipalities, and a specialized pilot exten-
sion service, called tlKabsaka," was established in 1976 (para. 2.14). The
results were encouraging and the possibility of formulating a project based
on multiple cropping technology in rainfed areas was discussed between the
Bank and the Government early in 1977. An identification mission visited
Iloilo in November 1977. The Agricultural Project Preparation Unit of the
Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by provincial government staff, completed
a draft report by September 1978. A Bank mission visited the Philippines in
October 1978 to assist in the preparation of the Project.
Project Objectives
3.02       The Project represents the beginning of a multiple cropping techno-
logy which may eventually prove to be the most effective means of raising
the agricultural productivity of lowland areas which have satisfactory
rainfall but which are not suitable for irrigation. It draws on the expe-
rience of the highly successful and innovative Kabsaka project initiated in
a small area of Iloilo (para. 2.14), and seeks to extend the technology to
all suitable areas of the province and, in the longer run, to other provinces
in the Philippines which have comparable conditions. In this regard, the
project offers the prospect of a breakthrough in addressing the problems of
rainfed agriculture. It would support and reinforce other ongoing
investments in Iloilo under the national programs to increase their impact
on agricultural productivity. A central strategy in this effort to increase
the intensity of land use and raise farm incomes would be to apply an approach
akin to integrated area development. This approach would stress a
comprehensive and balanced development in rainfed areas and facilitate the
realization of a broad range of opportunities rather than merely pursuing the
narrow focus of having the new technology accepted by farmers. The major
elements of this strategy would be the promotion of livestock activities along



- 21 -
with the crop programs; the construction of scattered water impounding
schemes; the improvement of marketing and transport; support for efforts to
improve nutrition; the upgrading of institutions and manpower; and assistance
to research and to future project preparation. Project Management would focus
not only on investment activities under this project but also on the
replicability of those activities in other areas of the country and their
interaction with nonproject aspects of significant complementarity.
Project Formulation
3.03      The Project was first conceived purely as a multiple cropping proj-
ect and various provinces were considered. Iloilo was selected for the first
of these in a possible series because experimental work in the field had
progressed furthest in that province and a capable provincial administration
enhanced the prospects for success. During the preparation stages of the
project, it became apparent, on the one hand, that many of the basic precondi-
tions for the successful introduction of an improved cropping technology were
already in place or being developed and, on the other hand, that complementary
measures were desirable or even necessary.
3.04      Already in place is an agricultural extension service that is being
expanded and reorganized under the National Extension project iniitiated in
1979 (Loan 1626-PH). The rural credit system is well organized and steps are
being taken to increase accessibility of funds to farmers. NGA is expanding
its grain storage and processing facilities and there is a well-functioning
private sector input supply and marketing system. While these elements are,
or soon will be, in progress, it was apparent that additional siteps would be
necessary to pull them together and enable a quick uptake of the improved
technology.  Implementation of such a program would require an extensive
training effort for farmers, extension personnel and those in r,elated
agencies, e.g., banks and cooperatives, and specific attention 'was given to
this aspect. The Kabsaka program has already achieved success through
organized farmer participation and it would be important to develop this
feature during implementation.
3.05      Livestock activities were added to the original proposal to assure
the development of balanced farming systems, to reduce farmers' financial
risks, enhance the stability of farm incomes and increase production to meet
growing national requirements. The resources required are not by themselves
large, but rather of a catalytic nature, and are further justified by the fact
that this effort is the first of its type in the Philippines.  Furthermore,
the opportunity was taken to attempt to improve local small-scale water
resource use in lowland rice areas not accessible to major irrigation programs
through construction of water impounding schemes. The testing of low-cost
approaches to the solution of major nutritional problems related to iron-
deficiency anemia and associated parasitic infections, and to mortality
resulting from acute diarrhea also was considered desirable within the context
of the project. Both water impounding and the nutrition component, if
successful, are likely to be followed up on a national scale. An examination
of the project area revealed serious deficiencies in accessibility and it
became clear that extensive road improvements were required to assure the



- 22 -
orderly marketing of inputs and production. These improvements are to be
included in a proposed Bank-funded Rural Roads Project.
Project Description
3.06      Components of the proposed Project are as follows:
(a) provision of staff support, vehicles, facilities, supplies, equip-
ment and breeding stock for the agricultural and livestock extension
services to facilitate the efficient transfer to farmers of improved
methods of production and improvements in the production and distri-
bution of seeds through the upgrading of quality control
(paras. 3.07-3.13);
(b) support of research and field trials in Iloilo to further improve
the multiple cropping technology, and in several locations in
Mindanao or other suitable areas to serve as a basis for future
projects in the surrounding areas (paras. 3.14-3.16);
(c) construction of small water impounding facilities and provision of
irrigation infrastructure and related agricultural development in
about 40 locations in the province (paras. 3.17-3.19);
(d) construction of a grains storage and shipment facility (para. 3.20);
(e)  training of Government support staff, local bank personnel,
community leaders, farmers and farm family members to achieve
Project objectives for production, marketing and nutrition, and
testing, on a pilot basis, of a comprehensive village development
program (paras. 3.21-3.24);
(f) provision of supplies, equipment, technical assistance and addi-
tional staff to prevent and control anemia and to reduce the adverse
effects of diarrhea (paras. 3.25-3.27);
(g) provision of consultancy services for the preparation of project
proposals suitable for international funding for development of
rainfed areas of Western Mindanao, and of a national program of
small water impounding facilities (paras. 3.28-3.29); and
(h)  strengthening of existing institutions at the regional and provin-
cial levels to ensure efficient implementation, and provision of a
management unit for the Project (para. 3.30).
Detailed Features
A. Agricultural Production Services
3.07      In determining incremental extension requirements for the Project
it has been assumed that the staffing and equipment components of the



- 23 -
National Extension Project (NEP) would be implemented as planned (para. 2.18).
The combined existing plus incremental resources from the two projects would
thus meet the province's general extension needs plus the specific needs
arising from the proposed multiple cropping and associated )4vestock pro-
grams. It is envisaged that, for crops, there would be one program officer
per municipality or per ten technicians, one district program officer per
eight municipalities, and five specialists per district (generally a soils
specialist, a rice specialist, an upland crop specialist, a vegetable
specialist and a crop protection officer); there are five crop extension
districts in the province. For livestock, there would be one 'Livestock
development officer per municipality and three specialists per district (a
veterinarian, a cattle specialist and a swine specialist); there are three
livestock extension districts. Basically, this project would strengthen
the approach under NEP in selected areas rather than alter it; some of the
staff changes would be temporary as farmers would require less assistance
after successful adoption of the new technology. The total number of
personnel employed in the Project area, up through the district level, when
fully staffed, i.e., in Project Year 5, are given in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: CURRENT AND PROPOSED STAFF OF MOA, ILOILO
Add'tl Add'tl
Current      NEP   for proj.   Total
BAEx
Regional Director                           1         -         -            1
Regional SMS                                2         1         -            3
Provincial management                       2         -         -            2
Provincial SMS                             11         4         -           15
District supervisors                        -         5         -            5
District SMS                                -         -        20           20
Municipal supervisor                       52         -         -           52
FMT                                       314        96 /a     -          410
BAI
Provincial management                       2         1         *-           3
SI4S                                        3         -         6            9
Breeding station manager                    3         -         IL           4
Municipal supervisor                       19        10        15           44
Market supervisor                           9         -         7           16
Technicians                                10         -         -           10
Breeding station support staff             16         -                     20
Regional animal nutrition specialist        -         -         L            1
Laboratory Technicians                      -         -         2            2
/a  Seventy of the 96 additional BAEx staff are expected to be staff
transferred from BPI under the National Eoxtension Project.



- 24-
3.08      Crop Extension.  The improved crop production technology would be
introduced on a phased basis throughout the rainfed areas of the province over
the five years of the project and would be the major focus of the work of the
FMTs during this period. In advance of the BAEx promotion of the advanced
technology of multiple cropping, demonstration plots would be established and
meetings would be conducted at the plots in farmers' fields in all areas in
the project area over a five-year period. These plots would be 1,000 sq m or
less in size. FMTs would be directed in the presentation of appropriate field
trials and provided with kits containing the necessary inputs. It is antici-
pated that approximately 50% of some 70,000 farmers in the province operating
under rainfed conditions would cooperate closely with the FMTs and adopt a
substantial proportion of the proposed practices. The remainder have either
already adopted, or are expected to adopt, some practices as a result of
intermittent exposure to the extension program.
3.09      With the new additions and transfers from BPI under the National
Extension Project, there would be an adequate number of FarmL Management
Technicians in the province and no additional staff at that level is pro-
posed under the present project. The total field staff will amount to 443,
representing a ratio of about 1 per 160 farm households. To provide the
necessary technical back-up, the Project would provide 20 Subject Matter
Specialists. It would further provide four extension centers; simple meeting
halls for about 900 villages; equipment, materials and visual aids; and a
small number of vehicles for the extension and other Government staff.
3.10      Livestock Extension.  At present the provincial staff of BAI is
largely engaged in carrying out vaccination and artificial insemination
programs, regulatory activities, the supervision of the seven municipal
livestock markets, and the operation of two livestock breeding stations.
Under the project, Bureau staff would be released for livestock development
activity through the training of barangay level volunteers to carry out
routine vaccinations. The LDOs would work through the FMTs in contacting
farmers, and would coordinate with the municipal level crop extension officers
to develop programs to promote the development of integrated farm operations
through the expanded use of forage crops, locally produced feedgrains and crop
residues.
3.11      The project would provide 15 additional field staff and four
Municipal Supervisors to permit one livestock development officer per munici-
pality, supervisors for the seven new livestock markets to be opened in the
near future, six Subject Mlatter Specialists, and some support staff. An
additional livestock breeding station, including the station manager and
breeding animals, would be provided to serve the northeast of the province.
An expanded animal health program would be undertaken and, in support of this
effort, a small diagnostic laboratory would be developed in Iloilo City, the
first such outside Manila. The laboratory would be staffed with two techni-
cians. The field staff would be equipped with vehicles.
3.12      Production and Marketing of Seeds.  The project would assist the
Iloilo Seed Growers Association (ISGA) to provide the necessary services to



- 25 -
its members such that they would be able to produce all the additional seeds
required. The Association would be encouraged to seek credit from existing
sources for the construction of seed processing and storage facilities, and
for the purchase of seed from its members who would also be eligible for
credit for seed production in a manner which is similar to that for crop
production.
3.13      The Project would provide funds for extension of the Regional Seed
Testing Laboratory operated by BPI at Jaro, Iloilo City. An additional ten
seed inspectors would be hired by BPI to augment their existing staff. Each
seed inspector would follow up seed production of about 100 ha. The total
cost includes salary plus allowances, motorcycles and other small equipment.
Details concerning costs and phasing are shown in Annex 1, Table 1.
B. Adaptive Trials
3.14      The Project would support adaptive trial work of two types, (a) by
BPI at two additional locations in the Project Area (para. 3.15) to further
refine-cropping systems to local conditions and to develop forage crops for
these systems and (b) at several other provinces with a view to validating the
feasibility of the new technology in other areas and laying the groundwork for
further projects in these areas (para. 3.16).
3.15      Two sites would be established in the project area at Janiuay and
Sara for the adaptive trials to be conducted by BPI. These trials would be
in farmer's fields and designed to study the local adaptability of cropping
systems and their economic return to farmers. They would alsco conduct demon-
stration plantings of promising feed and forage crops in cooperation with BAI.
The program would be supervised by an agronomist to be statiorLed at the
Visayas Rice Experiment Station. He would also be provided space at the sta-
tion for exploratory trials of all possible feed and forage crops useful to
the backyard livestock enterprises. Each of the above sites would have a
research leader (an agronomist), and the following support staff: Agricul-
tural Economist, Entomologist, Plant Pathologist and Soil and Crop Fertility
Specialist, and support staff. Travel expenses, supplies, materials., office
equipment and vehicles would also be provided.
3.16      Adaptive trials would consist of testing the adaptability of the
project cropping patterns in other provinces, primarily in Mindanao. These
provinces have rainfall patterns that are as good or better than in Iloilo.
Two part-time research leaders would work with full-time research assistants,
cooperators and contractual employees. The staff would be provided with
offices in each of the locations, office equipment, supplies, vehicles and
travel ftnds. Details are shown in Annex 1, Table 2.
C. Water Impounding and Irrigation Systems
3.17      The Project would support the construction of small earthen dams.
The appraisal is based on 40 dams, 27 of which serving 50 ha each, 6 serving
40 ha each, 4 serving 30 ha each and 3 serving 20 ha each. However, the



- 26 -
actual numbers being built and the size distribution of serving area could
deviate from these target figures as a result of subappraisal findings prior
to implementation although the total estimated irrigable area of about 1,800
ha is considered to be the upper limit. The dams would be provided with con-
crete triple and emergency spillways to pass a discharge corresponding to a
rainfall of 4 in/hour. The dam would be designed for a flood frequency of 25
years. The dams would be provided with unlined main and secondary canals, and
on-farm ditches and drains, according to NIA's standard per ha requirement.
The drainage system would also follow NIA standards and be provided with road
crossings, pipeworks and ripraps. The Project would provide heavy equipment
to form one unit for the maintenance of the dams and irrigation systems;
survey and office equipment would also be provided. Funds for the development
of the numerous other uses of the impounded water, such as fish culture,
household and animal consumption, fire protection, generation of electricity,
leisure, etc. would be provided by the farmers themselves or from other
existing programs. Although the dam sites usually would not be on valuable
ground, adequate compensation would be provided to the farmers whose land
would be affected.  An assurance was obtained at negotiations that, prior to
implementation, an evaluation report for systems costing P 900,000 or more
would be furnished to the Bank for review and that summary data forms be
furnished for the other systems.
3.18      There would'be provision for watershed soil conservation works for
400 ha out of the total catchment areas of about 4,000 ha as a pilot program.
Measures for soil conservation in watershed areas that would be provided are
reforestation, cover cropping, Ipil-Ipil contour bands, diversion ditches,
sodding, and firebands.
3.19       Because of the nature of the terrain in narrow valleys in the low
hills bordering the plains, the reservoirs would be relatively small, with a
storage capacity of 150,000 cu m to 200,000 cu m. This would be insufficient
to store sufficient water to provide full irrigation to 50 ha for a trans-
planted dry season rice crop in the traditional manner. Consequently, farmers
would apply a Kabsaka-type cropping pattern and available water would be used
primarily to supplement rainfall during the main eight-month cropping season
from May to December. In most years sufficient water would remain in storage
to allow production of a third crop of sorghum or peanuts over about one-third
of the commanded area. About 95% of the irrigable area would be cropped in
each of the two seasons during the wet months, May-September; September-
December, and on average 20% cropping would be obtained in the dry season
December-March. The overall cropping intensity would be 205%. Details of
the cropping pattern under irrigation are shown in Annex 3, Table 3, and are
summarized in Table 3.2.



- 27 -
Table 3.2: DISTRIBUTION OF IRRIGATED AREA BY CROP SEASON
Irrigable                      Irrigated Areas                 Cropping
area      First crop   Second crop   Third crop  Tota  intensity
(ha)      --------------------   (ha)   --------------- -      (%)
1,8003       1,670         1,670            360      3,700      205
D. Grains Storage and Shipment Facility
3.20      The Project would provide finance for the construction of a small
grains storage and shipment facility in Iloilo City. The facility would be
located adjacent to the present deep-water quay (or at an alternative site to
be agreed at with the Bank) and have a capacity of 10,000 tons of rice.
Equipment for cleaning, grading, standardization and bagging cof rice also
would be provided (Annex 1, Table 4). The facility would be constructed and
operated by NGA. To the extent that the private sector will be involved in
export trade, the facility would be made available to private traders at an
appropriate fee.
E. Training
3.21      The Project would provide for training which will give emphasis to
developirtg local capability in Iloilo for future training and manpower devel-
opment within the various agencies involved in the project andl would include:
(a)  training of farmers and IIOA extension staff in improved cropping
technologies, including post-harvest techniques;
(b)  training to improve technical skills of agriculturaL field staff
and staff of supporting agencies, i.e. rural banks, marketing
agencies, local government, and cooperatives;
(c)  training of managers and supervisors to improve their performance
as managers, and the performance of the entities they control;
(d)  training in training methodology for those with staff development
responsibilities; and
(e)  training of those in planning and coordinating positions to
ensure full participation of the intended beneficiaries of the
Project in planning of programs which may affect them.
The exact number of trainees is difficult to estimate.  Project cost estimates
are based on the assumption that, during the five-year period, about 7,000
participants would be trained under the auspices of five agencies and 38
candidates would be selected for training overseas. Details are summarized in



- 28 -
Table 3.3. Training for nutrition is included in that component. Funding
would be provided for a Project Training Coordinator and a sociologist to work
directly under the Project Manager in determining priority field programs and
training needs, and developing appropriate training programs in all agencies
involved in the project. These would support plans at the national level to
strengthen training capability within individual agencies. An Agricultural
Training Officer position would be created at provincial level to determine
training priorities, and plan and organize training within their respective
agencies. The PTC-RD would provide an important training resource to the
project and would assist with coordinating training objectives of the various
agencies involved. In addition to the training personnel, funding would
cover training materials, a new residential training facility in Iloilo,
vehicles, equipment, training costs, travel to training elsewhere in the
Philippines and overseas, and 17 man-months of consultancy services. Cost
details are shown in Annex 1, Table 5.
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED NUMBER OF TRAINING PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS, BY AGENCY /a
Nondegree Training                   All Training
Foreign         Local            Foreign    Local    Total
Agency         6-12   0-6    6-12      0-6
-------- (months) --------
Farmers        -       -       -      2,560         -        2,560    2,560
BAEx/BAI        4      5       -      2,210          9       2,210    2,219
BS/NIA/FSDC    -      29       -         40        29           40        69
NGA/AMC         -      -       -        230          -         230       230
MLGCD           -      -       -      1,678          -           -    1,678
Rural banks    -       -       -        127          -         1.27      127
Total     4      34       -     6,845         38        6,845    6,883
/a  Excludes health and nutrition training.
3.22      Special features of the proposed training activities include:
(a) a positive attempt to transfer greater responsibility for develop-
ment initiative from government services to the intended benefici-
aries of those services by means of training farmer representatives
and local government personnel, the training of farmers to conduct
livestock breeding and health improvement programs, and a pilot
program to test a new approach to socio-economic development at
village level (para. 3.24);
(b) an attempt to pull together the diverse training objectives of
many different national programs affecting agricultural development



- 29 -
in Iloilo, analyze their operational implications within the pro-
vince, and develop coordinated, effective training programs to
achieve the improved performance called for; and
(c) the development of capability to plan and administer training at the
provincial/regional level on a continuing basis within the various
agencies involved as an extension of current central responsibility
for training in those agencies.
3.23      A residential training facility would be established :Ln Iloilo
on a site to be determined by the Provincial Government. The training
facility would comprise residual accommodation for 100 trainees; dining and
catering facilities; two well-equipped classrooms and a seminar room, and
office accommodations for an administrator and visiting lecturing staff.
Building designs would replicate those now being used for the training centers
being constructed under the NTC-RD program. The Center would not have
permanent residential teaching staff but would provide a venue for provincial
level training courses run by the various agencies in H4OA, MLGCI), Health, the
Banks, and other entities involved in rural development.   The PTC-RD would
provide a training resource service to all these agencies and entities; its
present programs would promote coordination of training objectives between
agencies and, in addition, it would be able to support the Project with longer
term training programs in accordance with identified needs.
3.24      In addition, the training component would include a small pilot
scheme to identify and test a suitable approach to comprehensives village
development.  This approach is expected to involve education and training
directed at whole village communities. Trained volunteers would help the
local communities assess local needs and plan action on a community basis;
mobilize local resources; provide simple training where appropriate, encourage
villagers to contact and utilize services available to them through government
agencies, banks, etc. of which villagers are often unaware. Thne Project
would fund technical assistance to establish the program, a small stipend for
volunteers, and costs of training. It is expected that assisted villages
would, through community action, erect small village meeting centers and
offices as required. The pilot progran would include provision for a compre-
hensive baseline study of social indicators against which inputs and effects
of the program can subsequently be measured.
F. Human Nutrition
3.25      Anemia Control.  To treat and prevent severe and moderate anemia in
the province's rural population, the Project would provide fortification and
quality control equipment and supplies to undertake ironization of local salt;
initial subsidies for the production and distribution of fortified salt in
order to make it available at the same price as unfortified salt; iron/folate



- 30 -
tablets to cure nutritional anemia; deparasitation drugs to rid the population
of worms, including hookworm; equipment for the biochemical determination of
Hb in blood; a vehicle to be used in Iloilo for the transportation of Project
staff and supplies; consultancies to assist in the technical and scientific
design of this component, and in its evaluation; study trips abroad for three
persons, primarily to Hyderabad, Madras, Bangkok and Medan; educational and
training materials; training of various types of outreach workers and their
supervisors; and travel and per diem (Annex 1, Table 6).
3.26      Diarrhea Management.  The adverse effects of diarrhea would be
reduced in Iloilo through the provision of supplies for oral rehydration;
equipment for production and packaging of rehydration mixture; a vehicle to
be used for transportation of staff and supplies; education and training
materials; small water pumps for 400 schools; consultancies to assist in an
evaluation exercise and other related studies; salaries for plant manager and
casual laborers; data collection for baseline studies, pretesting, monitoring
and evaluation; training of Project staff and outreach workers; media time and
travel and per diem. A package of inexpensive, practical and effective inter-
ventions that are applicable on a mass scale would be provided to interrupt
the cycle of diarrhea and malnutrition. The package would consist of (a) the
wide distribution of measuring spoons, (b) the selective distribution of oral
rehydration packets, (c) face-to-face education, (d) a mass media campaign,
and (e) referral services.
3.27      A survey of nutritional status and home food production would be
undertaken to provide a baseline for future evaluation and refinement of the
proposed actions. A second survey would be done toward the e:nd of the Project
period to provide data for comparisons. The University of Iloilo would pro-
vide assistance in data collection. Details of the nutrition component are
described in detail in the Project File Working Paper No. 6.
G.  Project Preparation
3.28      Funds would be provided in the project for consultancies and support
facilities for the preparation of project proposals for the development of
rainfed agriculture in Western Mindanao. These would includeb necessary soil
mapping, farm and market surveys, and personnel training and would build on
existing research and investigation being carried out under the Philippine-
Australian Development Assistance Project (PADAP)(Annex 1, Table 7). Research
funds would also be included in the Project to generate information for future
project preparation in other locations, most likely in South Cotabato and
Agusan (para. 3.16). It is expected that MOA's Agricultural Project Prepara-
tion Unit, in collaboration with provincial authorities, will, carry out any
preparation deemed desirable by Government in light of the research data being
obtained.
3.29      Funds would also be provided to strengthen the planning and project
preparation capability of the Bureau of Soils. Funding woulcd cover local
technical staff, consultant support, vehicles, equipment and supplies.



- 31 -
H. Project Management Support
3.30      Project management would be established within MOA.  A small secre-
tariat would be located in Manila and be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the Project at the national level (see paras. 4.01-4.02).
Day-to-day management of the Project would be carried out by a Ministry of
Agriculture Project Management Unit located in Iloilo responsible for coor-
dination, administration and support and monitoring and evaluation functions.
Funds would be provided for local staff for both units, including a Project
Manager, about 48 man-months of consultancy services, vehicles, equipment and
office facilities (Annex 1, Table 8).
Status of Studies and Design
3.31      Specific designs for Project structures have not been completed.
However, these structures would all be technically relatively uncomplicated
and, from a design standpoint, of standard specifications. Both grain ware-
housing facilities and irrigation structures exist in the country in large
numbers, and some agencies presently concerned with their construction, i.e.
NGA and NIA, have proven technical capability for either in-house design or
supervision of consultants; the Bureau of Soils would acquire the necessary
expertise through cooperation with other agencies and strengthening of staff.
It is estimated that the necessary surveys could be conducted and standard
designs adapted to the specific local requirements within three months prior
to issuing contracts for each of the proposed Project structures. The cost of
surveys and design is included in the Project's cost estimates.
Implementation Schedule
3.32      The Project would be implemented over a five-year period, commencing
about spring of 1980. Investments would be distributed relatively evenly
throughout the implementation period. Details are shown in Annex 4, Table 5.
Cost Estimate
3.33      Total Project costs are estimated at US$21.4 million, of which
US$9.7 million or 45% is foreign exchange cost and US$1.8 million taxes and
duties. Consultants' services would total US$1.26 million, with the cost
per man-month ranging from US$3,000 to US$6,000. Project costs are based on
unit prices existing in the Project area in mid-1979 and are indexed to a
common level, January 1980. Physical contingencies have been included,
amounting to 10% for all agricultural production services, nutrition, project
preparation, and management support; 15% for the grains shipment facility,
and 20% for water impounding works. Overall, physical contingencies represent
9% of base cost. The contingency due to expected price increases over the
implementation period amounts to about 25% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, assuming the following annual inflation rates:



- 32 -
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1980     1981      1982      1983-85   1986-90
Foreign cost
Equipment, services
and civil works         10.5       9.0      8.0        7.0        6.0
Local cost                  16.0       10.0     8.0        7.0        7.0
3.34      Project cost details are presented in Annex 1, Table 9, and
are summarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: PROJECT COST
Component                   Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   F.E.
---- (P million) ----  --- (US$ million) ---   (%)
Agricultural production
services                      8.95    2.98   11.93   1.21    0.40    1.61   25
Adaptive trials and research  6.06    2.78    8.84   0.82    0.38    1.20   31
Water impounding               13.95   17.24   31.19   1.88    2.33    4.21   55
Grains shipment facility        5.77   12.73   18.50   0.78    1.72    2.50   69
Training                        9.10    4.48   13.58   1.23    0.61    1.84   33
Nutrition                       7.22    2.96   10.18   0.98    0.40    1.38   29
Project preparation             3.77    5.04    8.81   0.51    0.68    1.19   57
Project management              6.02    2.28    8.30   0.81    0.31    1.12   27
Subtotal                  60.84   50.49  111.33   8.22    6.83   15.05   45
Physical contingencies          8.16    6.67   14.83   1.10    0.90    2.00   45
Price contingencies            17.51   14.31   31.82   2.37    1.93    4.30   45
Total Project Cost        86.51   71.47  157.98  11.69    9.66   21.35   45
Financing Plan
3.35      The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million would cover the Project's
foreign exchange costs of US$9.7 million and US$2.3 million equivalent of
local costs. It would reimburse direct Government expenditures and it would
cover 56% of total Project costs. Of the remaining portion, US$8.9 million
(F 66.3 million) would be provided by Government, and US$0.4 million
(F 2.9 million) by Project beneficiaries. A detailed financing plan is
presented in Annex 1, Table 10 and summarized in Table 3.5.



- 33 -
Table 3.5: FINANCING PLANI
(Amounts in
US$ million)
Beneficiaries  Government         IBRD
Component                        Amount   %    Amount   %   Amount   %  Total
Agricultural production services   0.01    1          1.10   68      0.50  31   1.61
Adaptive trials & research                -    -      0.54   45      0.66  55   1.20
Water impounding                       0.25    6      1.00   24       2.96  70   4.21
Grains shipment facility                  -    -      0.63   25       1.87  75   2.50
Training                                  -    -      0.92   50      0.92  50   1.84
Nutrition                                 -    -      0.74   54      0.64  46   1.38
Project preparation                       -    -      0.47   40      0.72  60   1.19
Project management                        -    -      0.56   51      0.56  49   1.12
Contingencies                         0.12    2       3.01   48      3.17  50   6.30
Total finacing                      0.38    2       8.97   42    12.00  56  21.35
Procuremenit
3.36       Equipment, vehicles and supplies for force account construction and
for extension, training, research, marketing, maintenance of water impounding
structures, nutrition improvement and management support, costing about
US$4.2 million, would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local procurement
practices are appropriate for off-the-shelf items costing less than US$20,000
each, because the advantages of international competitive bidding would be
clearly outweighed by the administrative costs involved; small orders would be
bulked to the extent possible. The total cost of such items would not exceed
US$500,000. Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures and they are
acceptable.  There is adequate competition and foreign firms are well
represented.
3.37      Civil works in the Project area (US$4.7 million, excluding contin-
gencies) would be relatively small for most of the construction subprojects
and are widely scattered throughout the province. They would include offices,
training facilities, small structures, a grains storage and shipment facility,
small damS, irrigation canals and drainage systems. These works have to be
planned and executed on short notice outside of the growing season and to
avoid bad weather, and would therefore not be suitable for international
competitive bidding.  Steps have been taken over the past several years to
strengthen local contractors and the response to recent bids for such works
has been encouraging. However, it is doubtful that all civil works could be
done by contract and some of them, e.g. buildings and some dams, costing about



- 34 -
US$1.6 million, would therefore be carried out on force account. Competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures is appropriate for the work to be
executed under contract. Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures and
they are acceptable. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign
firms can participate. Final contracts costing US$50,000 or more for water
impounding and US$100,000 or more for all other components would be submitted
to the Bank for review prior to approval.
3.38      Training would be under the auspices of the Project's Training
Coordinator and research and trials under the national line agencies,
coordinated by NFAC, subject to Bank approval of curricula, programs, terms
of reference, and conditions of consultant employment.
Disbursements
3.39      The disbursement of the loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) physical infrastructural works: 75% against certified statements
of expenditure executed by force account or under small contracts,
or against normal documents if executed by local contract exceed-
ing a value of US$50,000 for water impounding dams and US$100,000
for all other civil works contracts;
(b) government support services: vehicles, equipment and supplies at
100% of foreign expenditure if directly imported or of exfactory
cost if locally manufactured, or 75% of the local off-the-shelf
cost, against normal documents;
(c) consultants' services, training and surveys:
(i)  consultants' services:  100% of total expenditures, against
normal documents;
(ii) overseas training: 100% of foreign expenditures against
normal documents;
(iii) local training and surveys: 75% of total cost of Bank-
approved items or programs, against quarterly statements of
expenditure; and
(d) incremental local salaries: 50% of total costs against quarterly
statements of expenditure./l
/I The agencies included would be the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Local Government and Community Development, Farm
Systems Development Cooperation, National Irrigation Administration,
Philippine Training Center for Rural Development, and Iloilo Provincial
Government.



- 35 -
3.40      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against normaL documentation,
contracts and certified statements of expenditure. In all cases where
disbursement is to be made against certified statement of expenditure, the
supporting documents would be retained by the Borrower and mande available for
inspectiorn during the course of supervision missions. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1986, approximately one year
after the end of construction. The Project would provide US$200,000 in
retroactive financing to cover expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980 for
the Project's management, extension services, crop trials, training, water
impounding and nutrition activities. A proposed allocation of loan proceeds
and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are given in Annex 1, Tables 11 and
12, respectively, and accounting procedures applicable to statements of
expenditure are described in Annex 2.
Accounting Practices and Audit
3.41      Separate Project accounts would be maintained by all agencies
involved and after audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank, the Project
accounts, together with the auditors' comments and opinions on the certi-
fication of expenditure on force account work, would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the close of each agency's fiscal year.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Project Organization
4.01      Overall responsibility for physical implementation of the Project
would rest with the regional and provincial staff of the national line
agencies and of the Provincial Government of Iloilo. Primary responsibility
would be vested in the Project Manager who would head the Project Management
Unit to be created within MOA. The Project Manager and his staff would be
located in the Office of the Regional Director of Agriculture (in Iloilo
City), have day-to-day responsibility for overseeing implementation by the
designated agencies, assist the agencies in preparing their budget requests
and reimbursement claims, approve the release by the Budget Commission of
Project funds to the agencies, and take steps as necessary to assure that ade-
quate credit and inputs continue to be made available in a timely fashion to
project p,articipants. He would be supported by three sectoral coordinators
for agriculture (attached to the Provincial Agricultural Office), marketing
(located in the Office of the Provincial Governor) and nutrition (attached to
the Ministry of Health). The Project Manager would be directed by and report
to the Regional Director of Agriculture, who would be the chaiLrman of the
Project Management Committee./1 This Committee would comprise the Regional
/1 The Governor of Iloilo Province and the Regional Director of BAEx would
serve! as co-chairmen of the Project Mlanagement Committee until such time
as the Regional Director of Agriculture has been appointed.



- 36 -
Directors of the other agencies involved in the project, the President's
Regional Action Officer (the Governor of Iloilo), the Director of the
Provincial Development Staff, and appointed representatives of farmers and of
the marketing sector. The committee could function as a guiding and
coordinating body. It would be a condition of project effect;iveness that the
Management Committee had been established with composition and responsibili-
ties satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02      Implementation of the Project would require coordination between a
number of national ministries and agencies. These are the Ministries of
Agriculture, Health, Education and Culture, and Local Government and Community
Development, the National Nutrition Council, the Nutrition Center of the
Philippines, the Media Production Center, the National Irrigation Authority,
the Farm Systems Development Corporation, the Philippine Training Center for
Rural Development, and the Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources and
Research. Coordination with the International Rice Research Institute would
also be required. An Interagency Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture and served by a small Secretariat attached to the
Office of the Minister, would be in charge of policy matters and responsible
for coordinating the activities and for all aspects of implementation at the
national level; establishment of the Coordinating Committee, with composi-
tion and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
project effectiveness.
Beneficiaries Participation
4.03      The Project's implementation structure would, at the provincial
level, extend down to the mayors to assure local participation. Extensive
reliance would be placed on the existing structure of action committees at
the provincial, municipal and barangay level to determine subarea participa-
tion in the Project, location of facilities, etc. The Project would support
the formation of Farmers' associations and these, together with existing
Samahang Nayons and action committees, would enable beneficiaries to parti-
cipate fully in decisions concerning phasing of Project activities. Farmers
in the water impounding schemes would contribute their own labor to the con-
struction of irrigation and other related infrastructure. The beneficiaries
of the nutrition component would be involved in the production of supplies
(i.e. fortified salt, rehydration mixtures), and installation of water pumps.
Project Implementation
4.04      Agriculture.  Bureaus of the Ministry of Agriculture would be
responsible for all crop and livestock Project activities and, to a large
extent, for water impounding. An agricultural coordinator (para. 4.02)
would be appointed to liaise with all MOA bureau heads on Project matters
and prepare the necessary documentation. BAEx and BAI techni:cians would
organize crop and livestock farmers and determine the type and phaseing of
activities in these areas, together with other agencies, particularly banks
and training institutions. BAEx and BPI, and possibly other agencies, would
undertake the research functions assigned to them by PCARR. The Bureau of
Soils would have major responsibility for the water impounding schemes.



- 37 -
4.05      ISGA, with its 58 member farmers would undertake seed production
for the Project. Seed growers would be advised and supervised by BPI. ISGA
would expand its facilities to efficiently process and distribute seeds to
Project fanrers.  BPI technicians and inspectors would cooperate with ISGA
first in procuring foundation seed and later in seed multiplication, to
produce the certified seeds for the Project, and BPI would expand its seed
testing laboratory and strengthen its quality control staff and procedures.
4.06      The water impounding component would be implemented under the autho-
rity of the Small Water Impounding Management (SWIM) Committee, which was es-
tablished under Letter of Instruction No. 898 on July 25, 1979. The Commit-
tee, with a membership drawn from six ministries, and its Technical Working
Group will review each proposal for a small, multi-purpose water impounding
scheme and assign a lead implementing agency. Detailed policies and imple-
menting guidelines for all projects, including this component, are still being
developed. It is expected that the Bureau of Soils would be designated as the
component's main implementing agency. Regardless of the selection of lead
agency, responsibilities of the various agencies are well defined. NIA would
assist the Bureau of Soils in the selection of sites for the water impounding
schemes and review design, detailed engineering and construction of related
irrigation structures and assist FSDC to ensure that established procedures
for collecting water charges are followed (para. 6.08). Bureau of Soils
would establish a special unit under the Regional Director, Iloilo, to carry
out the necessary surveys, establish design criteria, prepare topographic
maps, cost estimates and economic analyses, and to oversee implementation.
Construction of dams and major structures would be carried out by contractors.
FSDC would assist in organizing farmers into Irrigation Service Associations
(ISA) and in the registration of the latter with the appropriate government
agency. The ISAs would be granted all necessary water rights. It would be a
condition of Project effectiveness that detailed policies and iaplementing
guidelines for Letter of Instruction No. 898 had been issued and are in force.
Assurances were given at negotiations that arrangements for this Project
concerning the cooperation between NIA, FSDC and the Bureau of Soils would be
formalized no later than September 30, 1980.
4.07      The existing banking system in the province would provide the
necessary credit to Project beneficiaries. The incremental credit needs for
on-farm production over the five-year project period, excluding contingencies,
are estimated at P 93 million (US$12.5 million) including P 72 imillion
(US$9.7 million) for crops and P 21 million (US$2.8 million) for livestock.
It is projected that farmers would meet about 25% of this cost out of their
own resources (including project-generated savings and credit from the
informal sector) and 75% would be met from local credit sources. The Central
Bank, through Special Time Deposit and rediscounting facilities, provides
about 50% of all agricultural credit in the Philippines, and a much higher
proportion of credit for the production of food and feed. The Department of
Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations administers 21 individual funds
(18 active) as sources of STDs.  The largest of these are the IAF fund and the
Fourth CB:IBRD fund (Loan 1399-PH). All credit needs identified under the
proposed loan are included in the list of eligible activities in one or more



- 38 -
of the above funds. Adequate resources are now available in these funds to
meet the likely credit needs of the project. The Central Bank is taking steps
to reduce the number of Rural Banks and farmers who are ineligible to borrow.
Credit for crop marketing loans would continue to be made available by PNB and
by the commercial banks. Medium-term credit for farmers would be obtainable
from rural banks, DBP and LBP. DBP is also the channel for longterm loans for
storage and milling facilities. It would be the responsibility of the Project
Manager to monitor the availability of credit and to initiate remedial
measures promptly should difficulties arise.
4.08      Marketing.  No clear division of responsibility exists for the
marketing of the principal products anticipated from the Project. Three
principal agencies or groups will be involved; private traders, the National
Grains Authority (NGA), and farmers and farmers' organizations. Because of
the way functions are presently shared among these groups none of them could
individually carry responsibility for project-related activities in the
sector. The Marketing Coordinator would be located in the Office of the
Provincal Governor. He would act as a facilitator, identifying potential
problems or needs in the sector and utilizing his position to persuade the
relevant group to take the necessary action. He would be able to draw on the
Project's consultancy funds to finance short-term financial or technical
assistance efforts or studies where appropriate and recommend studies to be
carried out by other agencies. The Marketing Coordinator and his staff would
also supervise training activity in this area.  NGA would be responsible for
constructing the grain shipment facility in Iloilo City and installing the
equipment for cleaning, grading, standardizing and bagging of rice.
4.09      Nutrition.  The National Nutrition Council would provide the
Barangay Nutrition Scholars and advise on the technical aspects of the
component. The Ministry of Health would provide trainers; would be in charge
of the nutrition monitoring and the operational and evaluation studies (with
assistance from the Food and Nutrition Research Institute); and would
supervise the production of oresol and fortified salt. Furthermore, it would
act as the logistical channel for medical supplies to the municipality; and
treat the severe referral cases. The Ministry of Education and Culture would
undertake the proposed improvement to school water supplies; its teachers
would also provide supplies and education concerning anemia, deworming and
diarrhea. The Minister of Local Government and Community Development would
assist in targeted-marketing of fortified salt, and would organize orientation
training for mayors and barangay captains. The National Media Production
Center and the Nutrition Centre of the Philippines would prepare the
educational and training materials as well as the radio campaign. The
Ministry of Health, through its Bureau of Research and Laboratories, would be
responsible for the technical monitoring and quality control of fortified
salt. The Provincial Health Officer, assisted by a full-time Nutrition
Component Manager would be reponsible for the overall planning, execution and
evaluation of the Project's health and nutrition activities. At the regional
and provincial levels, he would participate in, and periodically report to,
the Regional and Provincial Nutrition Committees. At the municipal level, the
mayor would coordinate all agencies involved through the Municipal Nutrition
Committee.



- 39 -
4.10      Training.  The Project Training Coordinator, to be appointd by
June 30, 1980 under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would report
directly to the Project Manager and would coordinate all Project training
activities. He would arrange for o-verseas training, assist in the organiza-
tion of training programs at participating institutions and monlitor staff
training within other implementing agencies such as MOA bureaus, marketing
agencies and the MOH. Within each subsector a training officer would
administer training arrangements on a day-to-day basis.  The training center
to be constructed under the Project would have a full time adm'nistrator and
maintenance and catering staff. Use of the facilities would be determined by
a Training Committee made up of training officers of BAEx, BAI, Central Bank
and those responsible for training in other agencies within the province
wishing to use the facilities. Standard fees would be charged for board and
lodging at the center; the administrator, paid from the Governor's office,
would be responsible for the receipt of fees, payment of staff, ordering,
receipt and storage of foodstuffs and upkeep of the center. Users of the
facility would be responsible for the appointment of instructors and the
supply of teaching materials for their courses.
4.11      Pilot Village Development Program.  A Task Force would be
established by the Interagency Project Coordinating Committee to administer
the detailed planning of this pilot program and to determine precisely the
approach to be tested, the scope of the program, and agencies to be
involved in its implementation. The Task Force's planning effort would be
based on experiences of Government and other agencies and institutions work-
ing in the field of social development in the Philippines, and would also
include the designing of a specific evaluation component for the pilot
program. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that an implementation
plan for this program, satisfactory to the Bank, would be furn,ished by
December 31, 1980.
4.12      Adaptive Trials and Research.  The Multiple Cropping Research
Management Committee of the National Food and Agriculture Council would
organize the research and trials effort under the Project and would liaise
with the respective agencies carrying out the various subcomponents, be
instrumental in defining the detailed content and scope of the program and
provide coordination with related activities underway elsewhere in the
country. The Committee would consult the Bank concerning the formulation of
programs in research and crop trials which form the basis of future project
preparation efforts.



- 40 -
4.13      Project Preparation.  The Agriculture Project Preparation Unit
(APPU) of MOA would be responsible for engaging and supervising consultants
for the preparation of development proposals for Western Mindanao. The Bureau
of Soils would assist APPU in the preparation of future water impounding
projects.
Staffing
4.14      Existing manpower resources of the participating agencies would be
augmented through the provision of additional staff, in accordance with a
staffing program satisfactory to the Bank, and through staff training. The
Project lManagement Unit would be fully staffed and consultants appointed by
the Project Manager to advise him as and when needed. The appointment of a
Project Manager would be under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; it
would be a condition of Project effectiveness. The MOA would appoint an
Agricultural Coordinator and expand and strengthen its staff in BAEx, BPI, and
BAI. Bureau of Soils would establish a project preparation and implementation
unit in Iloilo and strengthen its project preparation capability at
Headquarters. The provincial government would appoint a full-time Marketing
Coordinator and the nutrition staff throughout the province would be expanded.
The Ministry of Health would appoint a Nutrition Component Manager. The
nutrition component would be implemented with present staff and regular staff
additions foreseen under the National Extension Project and Barangay Nutrition
Scholar scheme. For training, a Training Coordinator for the Project would be
appointed in the Project Manager's Office. Research staff in provinces other
than Iloilo would be employed by executing agencies in consultation with
PCARR. The staff of the rural banks would be upgraded mainly through train-
ing.
Agricultural and Other Services
4.15      BAEx staff would be the key element in introducing the multiple
cropping technology to farmers and cooperating with the banks in extending and
spervising production credit. BPI also would contribute specialist advisory
services for crops and BAI staff would provide specialist support to FMTs in
the livestock field, supervise animal health and breeding stock improvement
programs. The farmers participating in the water impounding schemes would
receive technical and organizational advice from BAEx and FSDC. Seed growers
would be assisted by BPI.
4.16      Credit to farmers would be provided through the rural banks, DBP,
LBP and, on an exceptional and temporary basis, through BAEx. Marketing
agencies and traders would be financed through DBP, PNB and the commercial
banks (para. 4.07).
4.17      Fertilizers, other crop production inputs and feedstuffs would be
supplied through private traders, AMICs, FACOMAS and Farmers' Associations.
Existing supply channels could handle the increased demand without difficulty.
However, should unforeseen supply problems occur, Project Management would
contract directly with the major distributors, in cooperation with the Ferti-



- 41 -
lizer and Pesticides Authority (FPA), to have the required inputs provided to
Project participants. Seeds would be distributed by ISGA through a network of
authorized dealers, which would be expanded.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
4.18      Operation and maintenance of the water impounding schemes would be
the responsibility of the respective FSDC-established Irrigators Service
Associations. Regular visits by FSDC officials would be used to review the
operation of the schemes. BS will establish a small maintenance unit which
would be responsible for major repairs. Periodic visits by NIA officials
would endeavor to keep maintenance standards at acceptable levels. The
operation and maintenance of marketing infrastructure facilities would be left
to the respective owners, some of whom would receive training in O&M practices
and procedures.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.19      Because of the experimental nature of this project, a significant
monitoring effort is foreseen. The Project Manager would be responsible for
designing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project.
He would be assisted by a Monitoring and Research Officer, who would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of agricultural and mnarketing
activities. Monitoring of health and nutrition activities would be supervised
directly by the Nutrition Component Manager in the Ministry of Health. The
National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH) provides for consultancy assistance
to NFAC to study ways of developing more effective monitoring and evaluation
systems for agricultural extension activities. The study will be carried out
in 1980.  Assurances would be sought from Government that the Monitoring and
Research Officer would be appointed, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1980 and that, in collaboration with the
consultants, he will design a monitoring system, compatible with the proposed
national system, to meet the specific needs of the Project by November 30,
1980, and that the system would be implemented no later than January 31, 1981.
The system would provide for the collection and analysis of the relevant data
by staff of the executing agencies and for a regular review of the agencies'
reports by the Project Manager. The Project Manager would forward a periodic
summary of these reports, together with his recommendations for action and a
progress report on past actions, to the appropriate government agencies and
the Bank.
4.20      The evaluation of project impact would consist of a baseline study
of project area farmers, a mid-project review and a post-project analysis.
Recall interviews would be conducted for measuring economic status and
determining social conditions. The results would be used to modify project
activities, if necessary, and to guide preparation of similar projects in
other provinces. Resource requirements include a part-time research leader,
five full-time research assistants, contractual help, travel, supplies,
materials and office equipment. Separate evaluations would be carried out
for the nuatrition (para. 3.27) component and the pilot village development



- 42 -
program (para. 3.24). Financing for this general evaluation exercise, the
evaluation of nutrition activities and for evaluation staff in the Project
Manager's Office (para. 3.30) is provided under the project.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Cropping Calendar
5.01      With the development of the intensified cropping approach, three
cropping periods have been defined for Iloilo. These are based primarily on
rainfall distribution. The first crop period begins with the first good
rain following the dry season which can come from late April to early June
and last through July (Annex 3, Tables I and 2). The second crop period
extends from the end of the first season through the peak of the rainy season
(mid-October). The third crop period would be for those crops following
late planted first period crops with an extended turnaround time or those
following second period crops. Generally, the earlier the third period crops
can be planted the better since they take advantage of the late rains of the
monsoon and residual moisture, but must mature over into the drier months of
January to lIarch.
5.02      Portions of all three periods are used in the traditional single
rice crop culture where a puddled seedbed is not prepared until sufficient
rain has fallen. This can delay transplanting into July or even early
August. With the use of late maturing and photoperiod sensitive varieties,
the rice does not mature until after the rainy months - November and
December when harvesting is easier because of the drier conditions. The
shift then to double and multiple cropping is a major one for farmers
involving several practices but they have shown a willingness to do this
where income and net profits can be greatly increased. The more intensive
cropping with double cropping rice and/or multiple cropping up to three
crops in one year with rice and upland crop combinations has been made
possible as a result of the "Cropping Systems Outreach Site" work, Kabsaka
trials and the development of early non-photoperiod sensitive high yielding
rice varieties. New methods of direct seeding (wet or dry) gives further
advantage in gaining time in the cropping sequences with rice. With either
one or two crops of the early maturing rice, time advantage is also gained
for the upland crops.
5.03      Rice can be grown in either or both of the first two crop periods
but not in the third (unless irrigated). Green corn is sometimes grown in
the first crop period and followed by rice. Grain corn and green beans can
also be grown in this period but the rest of the upland crops including
vegetables and melons are grown in the third crop period - the crop choice
depending upon the time of planting and the likelihood of moisture stress.
Corn or grain sorghum are preferred where the latter is expected.



- 43 -
Cropping Patterns
5.04      In the absence of the project, the shift to direct seeding methods
of planting from transplanting is expected to be about 2% per year and yield
increase 1.3% per year.  The latter would be due to slight .lcreases of the
use of HY'Vs and fertilizers. The area devoted to rice would increase by about
3.5%. Areas planted to upland crops probably would remain about the same.
5.05      Rainfed Production.  The timing of onset of rains, amount and con-
tinuity of rainfall, landscape position, and soil texture all affect the
choice of crops by the farmer and he may adjust his cropping patterns as the
season progresses. The cropping intensity under rainfed conditions is
expected to increase to about 160% with the project (see Table 5.1).
Presently, a single rice crop is the most widely used pattern (81%) but this
would diminish to about 45% of the rainfed area after seven years. Two crop
patterns, rotating upland crops with rice, or double cropping of rice would
increase from 18% to 50% of the area. This projection is conservative but
takes into account the fact that in some years very late onset: of rains would
reduce tbhe potential for double cropping.
Table 5.1: SHARE OF CROPPED AREA UNDER VARIOUS CROPPING
PATTERNS, PRESENT AND FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Future wLth project
Cropping pattern                         Present       Rainfed       Irrigated
Single crop rice                            81            45              9
Rice-upland crop                             10           25              5
Upland crop rice                              2            5              1
Rice-rice                                     6           20             68
Rice-rice upland crop                         1             3             5
Rice-upland crop - upland crop                0            0             10
Upland crop-rice-upland crop                  0            2              5
Cropping intensity                       1.2           1.6            2.1
The most intensive patterns consist of three crops per year.  The rice-rice-
upland crop pattern would be the most intensive, while rotation with two
upland crops would allow more time for a single rice crop. The three-crop
patterns would increase from 1% to 5% after seven years. The cropping
pattern, area planted and yields are detailed in Annex 3, Table 3.
5.06      The double rice crop patterns in rainfed areas would be most suited
for the bottom lands with heavy soil and most specifically for those located
in the north where rainfall is high. Most of the three-crop patterns would
in fact be grown primarily in the north. Upland crops before or after rice
in a two-crop pattern would be grown mainly in the lighter textured soils



- 44 -
with a slight slope and with lower rainfall. MIany of these areas are
located in the southern part of the province. Because of the heavy rainfall
in the months May to November, only a few upland crops could be grown in
that period in contrast to the many alternatives available after November
when harvesting coincides with the dry months.
5.07      Several changes would result from the shift in cropping pattern
from the predominantly one crop per year to a 2-3 crop pattern. First, the
effective rainfed harvest area would increase from 72,300 ha to 96,000 ha,
with upland crops increasing from 8,500 ha to 22,000 ha and rice from 63,800
ha to 74,000 ha. Second, the diversity of farm products would increase,
i.e., the combined share of upland crops would increase from about 11% to 34%
in terms of harvest area and from 7% to 26% in terms of physical product.
Upland crops would become more important as cropping intensity increases
because these crops require less water and can be grown during the drier
parts of the year. The physical area covered would extend to about 60,000 ha
rainfed and 1,800 ha irrigated by the fifth year.
5.08      Production with Supplementary Irrigation.  The emphasis in the
area benefitting from water impounding would be on increasing the intensity
of the above rainfed cropping system. There would not be stored water at
the start of the wet season and the first crop would be started in the same
manner as under rainfed conditions (i.e. 80% wet or dry seeded). Impounded
water would be used to offset rainless periods later in the growing season.
The second crop would be planted largely during September and supplemental
water provided. Storage capacity of the small dams is limited (e.g., about
200,000 cu m to serve 50 ha), but in most years sufficient water would
remain to provide a supplemental supply to a third drought tolerant crop,
e.g., sorghum or peanuts, covering about 20% of the area served. The
resulting croppng patterns are shown in Table 5.1 and areas, yields and
production detailed in Annex 3, Table 4.
Crop Yields and Production
5.09      The success or failure of a given crop would be greatly affected
by rainfall distribution. This is of crucial importance for the Project's
rainfed production where the intensification of cropping patterns would
require the growing of crops during the dry months of the year. It is
expected that the crops which would be significantly affected by water
stress are: (a) the second rice crop in a rice-rice pattern which would be
planted in mid to late October such that the grain filling date could coincide
with a dry December, and (b) the third crop in a three-crop sequence which
would be planted in late December and extends into the dry months of January
and February. The probability of receiving a given amount of rainfall at
different periods of the year has been estimated from the rainfall record of
Iloilo City (Annex 3, Table 2). Considering that rice grows optimally with
about 10 mm per day or 140 mm in a two-week period, it can be seen that the
probability of water stress in rice paddies is very high during the months
of January to May. The probability of receiving at least 60 mm in a two-
week period exceeds 75% only during the period from early June to late



- 45 -
October, while a mean rainfall of 60 mm or above occurs between early May
and the middle of December.
5.10      The risk of crop failure or drought damage has been taken into
account in the yield projections. Yields of palay are expected to increase
about 30% from present levels and be 22% above those expected in the future
without the project. In projecting yields for the different seasons and
technologies, allowances for yield loss due to drought stress were made,
e.g.:
Drought
Crop                               factor          Yield
(%)        (tons/ha)
Rice - irrigated - wet seeded - first crop               0             3.8
- secoTid crop          20             3.0
- dry seeded - first crop             16             3.2
Rice - rainfed - dry seeded - first crop                24             2.9
- wet seeded - first crop               13             3.3
- second crop             34             2.5
Sorghum - irrigated - second crop                       10             2.7
- third crop                       27             2.2
- rainfed   - second crop                       17             2.5
- third crop                       33             2.0
5.11      With the above assumptions on increases in yields and cropping
intensity, rice production is projected to increase from 151,700 to
230,300 t, upland grains from 3,600 to 27,300 t and upland vegetables from
13,500 to 25,500 t. Incremental project harvested area and crop production
are shown in Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6, respectively. The assumaed cropping
pattern may be financially less than optimal, i.e., higher relturns are
probably obtainable  itth more risky crop combinations.  It is, however,
technically sound and has been proven to be acceptable to farners on a small
scale.
Animal Production
5.12      Animal production in the Project area would be promoted in order
to utilize crop byproducts, improve utilization of household labor, supplement
farm income and reduce national shortages of livestock products. The backyard
enterprises to be encouraged include: (a) cattle fattening with two animals
per household; (b) cattle fattening combined with cattle breeding, with one
feeder animal and one cow; (c) swine raising with two sows; (d) swine
fattening producing ten fat animals per year; (e) caracow-calf production with



- 46 -
one breeding female, sale of offspring after the third year; and (f) goat
raising with one buck and ten does. The number of farm households
participating in animal production would start at 800 in the first year and
increase to 6,000 in the fifth year (Table 5.2). Approximately two thirds
of these households would be new producers, one third existing producers
whose operations would be upgraded.
Table 5.2: LABOR REQUIREMENTS IN LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Aggregate     Average requirements
Participating      annual             per farm
farms      requirements   Per year/a  Per month
(No.)       (Wd '000)      ------- (Wd) --------
Caracow-calf                480            29.6          61.6         5.1
Cow-calf, cattle
fattening               1,500           139.5          93.0         7.8
Cattle fattening          1,800           164.9          91.6          7.6
Swine fattening             900            63.0          70.0         5.8
Piggeries                   600            70.2         117.0         9.8
Goat raising                720            63.8          88.6          7.4
Total                   6,000           531.0          88.5         7.4
/a Consistent with project cost estimate when assuming a wage rate of
P 11/man-day. Wd = Work-day.
5.13      The breeding and fattening stock initially would be provided from
traditional sources in and outside the province, but would be increasingly
supplemented by stock produced internally on project farms. Animals, feeds,
materials and, possibly, hired labor would be purchased on credit supplied
through regular lending channels, either as combined crop/livestock loans or
specific livestock loans. Productivity increases would be modest,
reflecting farmers' inexperience and the relatively low quality of available
breeding stock (Table 5.3). Goat milk production is new to most farmers,
although experimentation in Miagao has been successful for a number of years.
Table 5.3: LIVESTOCK PRODUCTIVITY INDICATORS
Product                Without project    With project    % increase
Fattened cattle (kg/animal)            270                320              18
Swine (kg/animal)                       72                 85              18
Goat (kg/animal)                        25                 35              40



- 47 -
5.14      With the projected farmer participation and increase in produc-
tivity, the resulting incremental production of slaughter animals would be
about 3,840 t on a liveweight basis. The annual availablility of weanlings
would increase by 16,800, and goat milk production by 704,000 liter (Annex 3,
Table 7).
Input Coefficients, Requirements and Prices
5.15      Average labor requirements per hectare would increase from 109 to
123 man-days (13%) per year. The projected increase in labor and animal
power requirements would be less than the increase in cropping intensity
since the upland crops replacing rice have smaller requirements per ha, and
farming operations would be partially mechanized. Labor requirements would
be highest in between growing periods I and II, when the harvesting and
processing activities of the first crop would be exp.cted to overlap with
that of the second crop (Annex 3, Table 8). Incremental fertilizer
requirements at full development would be 7,200 t of urea and 8,240 t of
mixed fertilizer. Annual seed requirements for all crops would total about
2,500 t, of which 64% would be for rice.
5.16      Input prices, adjusted to January 1980, have been assumed as shown
in Annex 3, Table 9.
Farm Mechanization
5.17      With the intensification of cropping in the Project: area, the labor
and draft requirements would increase and the timeliness of operations would
become crucial. While limited migration of farm workers within the region
is occuring, this would not be sufficient to meet Project requirements.
Furthermore, strictly manual operations would not guarantee that activities
between growing periods, especially under abnormal weather, would be com-
pleted in a timely fashion. Shortages of labor would occur particularly in
August-September. It is estimated that family labor on project farms would
fall short of requirements about 650,000 and 1.39 million mani-days, respec-
tively, in those two months (Annex 3, Table 8). Such a large monthly short
fall could not be compensated through hired labor.  Partial mechanization,
leading to mixed manual-mechanized operations which would still rely on
some hired labor, already underway on a fairly large scale in the province,
would thus be imperative in Project farms.  Credit for farm mechanization
is avaiLable under the Fourth Rural Credit Project (Loan 1399-PH).
5.18      An aggregate labor budget is not a sufficient basis for estimating
farmers" total demand for mechanization in Iloilo because of the many
intangible factors involved, including cost-price relationships, availability
of draft animals, economic opportunities for farm family labor, uncertainty
concerning replacement requirements for existing machines, developments in
major non-Project crops such as sugar, and demand generated by non-Project
farmers in and outside the Project area. Based on existing conditions, use
of power tillers and threshers is financially attractive to farmers and
contractors, and funding would be available through existing Bank credits and



- 48 -
other local channels. The farm budgets (Project file Working Paper No. 2)
indicate that partial mechanization is advantageous for Project farmers.
Since practically no imports are involved, mechanization on these farms can
thus be considered a desirable method of overcoming labor shortages.
6. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Market Prospects
6.01      It is estimated that in 1978 the province of Iloilo had a surplus
in rice, tomatoes and beef and was self-sufficient or had a deficit in all
other commodities supported by the Project. A similar balance existed for
the whole Region Vl. For the country as a whole, none of the commodities
was in surplus; self-sufficiency was roughly indicated for rice and
tomatoes. Whatever surpluses are produced in Iloilo are generally traded
interregionally, except for rice, part of which has occasionally entered
foreign trade directly from Iloilo ports.
6.02      The market prospects for Project commodities are favorable.  For
rice the provincial annual surplus of about 625,000 t in 1978 would be
increased by 10,000 t by 1984 as a result of the Project, assuming that the
remaining 45,000 t in incremental production would be absorbed by growing
local demand. Any future surpluses of Iloilo rice would, as in the past,
be absorbed by deficit areas in the Philippines or exported if required.
Modest exports are consistent with Government's objectives in rice produc-
tion; Iloilo rice, expected to be milled close to a 25% brokens quality,
would be competitive in the prospective export markets and there exist
facilities to produce export-quality rice; financing for expanding and
upgrading these facilities is available.
6.03      The incremental project output also would exceed the growth in
local demand for sorghum, green corn, peanuts, tomatoes, beans, and meat;
at present, there is a local deficit for sorghun.  Local surpluses of
peanuts, tomatoes, green corn, beans and meats would be marketed either
within Western Visayas region or in other parts of the country for which
ample demand for these commodities is projected. For corn and milk, the
additional production is unlikely to meet local demand. Depending on future
price and market developments, the crop mix, especially for vegetables, can
be changed without much delay, and market constraints are not considered to
pose a significant risk for the Project.
Market Prices
6.04      Domestic grain prices are controlled by the Government and have,
on a long-term basis, followed rather closely the prices in the inter-
national market. The prices of other commodities concerned in the Project
and of livestock, generally are determined by market forces and vary among
locations. In the Project's analysis, all prices are estimated as at
January 1, 1980 and assumed to remain constant in real terms throughout the
life of the Project. Available projections indicate that commodity prices,
in constant dollar terms, are actually going to increase in the 1980s,



- 49 -
particularly for grains and most oil crops.  However, the cost of major farm
inputs also are expected to rise, but since the escalation in costs and
prices is projected to be similar, price relatives are expected to remain
rather stable, and hence the assumption of constant prices and costs for the
purpose o. Project analysis is justified.
6.05      The Government controlled support price of palay was increased from
E 1,100 to P 1,300/ton in April 1979.  The marketing infrastructure in
Iloilo has been such that the intervention agency, NGA, in previous years
was unable to accept all the palay offered it; accordingly, the intervention
price was the maximum price for the major part of the year. Traders' prices
for the surplus have been governed by the laws of supply and demand, and
especialLy poorer quality palay has fetched lower prices.  However, with
NGA's ongoing infrastructure development program, an improvement was felt
during the firs, crop season of 1979, and the price received was at, or much
closer to, the intervention price for a greater proportion of farmers than
in previous seasons. Prices are expected to improve further during the
second sesason and actually will begin to exceed the intervention price due
to decongestion of warehouse space. Implementation of the project would
improve the quality of the palay sold and processed, and also the capacity
and efficiency of the marketing system. The use of P 1,300/ton of palay as
a basis for the project's financial analysis is thus justified.
6.06      For the purpose of this evaluation, the prices for commodities
other than rice have been adjusted for inflation and market forces (to the
extent that the latter are predictable) to arrive at the 1980 base level.
At these prices, production at the farm level would be financially attrac-
tive (para. 6.07). A summary of financial prices is presented in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: FINANCIAL COMAODITY PRICES, JANUARY 1980
Commodity                         Units             Price
Palay                             P/t               1,300
Corn                              P/t               1,10o
Sorghum                           P/t               1,OC00
Mungo                             P/t               4,75,0
Peanuts                           P/t               3,600
Green corn                        P/t                 720
Tomato                            P/t               1,0C10
Beans                             P/t               1,450
Work animal                       P/head            1,500
Fattened cattle                   P/head            2,119
Calf                              P/head              400
Fattened pigs                     P/head              680
Weanlings (fattening)             P/head              200
Weanlings (breeding)              P/head              20iO
Goats (finished)                  P/head               90
Cow milk                          P/100 1             250
Carabao/goat milk                 P/100 1             267



- 50 -
Farm Incomes
6.07      The present average annual farm income from 1.8 ha (growing one
crop of rice, i.e., 81% of the Project area) is estimated at about P 3,000;
for a family of six, per capita farm income thus is P 500 (US$68). However,
total income of farm families in Iloilo is considerably higher due to off-farm
employment of family members which provides supplemental income amounting to
about 30% of on-farm income. The Project would raise farm-derived incomes to
between P 5,500 and P 9,400 (US$124-211/capita) under rainfed conditions,
depending on the rotation to be adopted, and to between P 6,800 and P 12,100
(US$153-273/capita) for farmers benefitting from water impounding. Farmers
could further increase their incomes by growing more profitable vegetable
crops where labor availability and market conditions permit, by mechanizing
farming operations selectively (e.g., plowing and/or threshing), and by
producing livestock. Backyard livestock enterprises would add between
P 1,000 and P 2,000 to a farm family's annual income. Annual farm incomes
for various enterprises are summarized in Table 6.2.
Cost and Rent Recovery
6.08      The water impounding schemes initially would be financed by
Government, with the O&M costs borne by the beneficiaries. Government would
collect fees from the beneficiaries of the schemes to reimburse construction
costs. For communal and pump schemes Government's present policy is to treat
10% of the capital cost as a grant, 70% as an interest-free loan and 20% as
a loan with an annual interest of 6%. The loan is repayable in 25 years,
including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.
6.09      For the purpose of this analysis, all charges, costs and benefits
related to the water impounding component are measured at present values
discounted at 10% over 30 years, and in terms of January 1980 constant
prices. The incremental rent recovery index for the component is 45%
(Table 6.3). In the cost recovery analysis, P 33.0 million construction,
equipment and consultancy costs plus P 1.3 million in Project overhead and
training costs (base cost estimate plus physical contingencies) are charged
against the Project. The present value of these costs, discounted at 10%,
is P 26.0 million. At full development incremental charges total
P 1.1 million per year. Discounted at 10% their net present value totals
P 5.6 million, giving a 21% cost recovery index for the component. The cost
recovery index would be similar to that of Bank-assisted irrigation projects
in the Philippines.



- 51 -
Table 6.2: ANNUAL FARM INCOMES /a
Enterprise                                          Pesos per farm
Rainfed crops (1.8 ha per farm)
Single rice, without project                                     3,050
Single rice, with project                                        3,840
Double rice                                                      6,390
Rice - mung rotation                                             7,880
Corn (grain) - rice rotation                                     5,530
Rice - sorghum - sorghum rotation                                7,560
Green corn - rice - sorghum rotation                             9,430
Crops with supplementary irrigation (1.8 ha per farm)
Single rice, without project  b                                  2,150
Double rice                                                      6,840
Rice - rice - sorghum rotation                                  10,390
Rice - sorghum - peanut rotation                                12,130
Livestock
Caracow-calf                                                     1,590
Cow-calf, cattle fattening                                       2,360
Cattle fattening                                                 1,160
Swine fattening                                                  1,190
Piggery                                                          2,220
Goat raising                                                     1,970
/a  Farm family labor not costed; interest and water charges (irrigation
only) fully costed; assumes no contribution to barrio funds.
/b  Conditions in rainfed areas where water impounding would take place
are, on average, inferior to those in the rest of the projiect area;
hence, the "without project" income shown is less than income for
rainfed crops not targeted for supplementary irrigation.



- 52 -
Table 6.3: COST AND RENT RECOVERY FOR WATER IMPOUNDING
Subproject and farm model                          P/ha
At Full Project Development
Incremental gross value of production                        5,107
Less:  Incremental cash production costs                     2,696
Equals:  Incremental cash income                             2,411
Less incremental
Imputed return on own capital and credit charges             170
Imputed value of family labor                                137
Imputed value of farm management, 8% of GVP                  409
Allowance for risk and uncertainty, 12% of GVP               613
Equals:  Project rent                                        1,082
Project rent as % of incremental cash income                  45
Incremental capital recovery charges                           628
Total affected area (ha)                                   1,800
During the Project's Life /a
Project rent                                                 8,518
Incremental capital recovery charges                         3,812
Rent recovery index (%)                                         45
Total Water Impounding Component
Project costs (P million)                                   26.0
Incremental capital recovery charges (1 million)             5.6
Cost recovery index (%)                                     21
/a Rent, costs and charges have been discounted at 10% per annum
over 30 years.



- 53 -
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      T'he Project would increase yields and the cropping intensity on
about 60,000 ha and provide supplementary irrigation on about 1,800 ha.
Livestock production would be promoted or intensified on about 6,000 farms.
For crops and livestock together, approximatly 40,000 farm families and
5,000 landless laborers' families, or a total of about 270,000 people would
benefit directly from increased production and consequent employment. The
Project would provide farmers with a more assured outlet for their products
through improvements in the marketing system. The farm value oLf annual
incremental production, in constant 1980 prices, would reach P 134 million
for crops and P 30 million for livestock.  In view of a basically neutral
long-term effect on the Government budget (para. 7.03), the Project's
benefits would accrue largely to small farmers in Iloilo, with the remainder
being distributed between wage labor employed throughout the production and
marketing chain and the trade involved in supplying farm inputs and in
marketing Project output. An additional benefit for the country as a whole
would be the gain of valuable experience with small water impounding
schemes. The benefits from such schemes have been found in other countries
to far exceed benefits derived from irrigation and may include fish produc-
tion, household and animal consumption of water, fire protection, generation
of electricity, recreation, and reduced flood damage downstream.
7.02      The wide range of crops and the livestock products to be promoted
under the Project, largely for local consumption, would significantly improve
the quantity, as well as the nutritional value of food available to the
whole popuLation of the province. A special focus of the Project would be
to reduce anemia and to alleviate the adverse effects of diarrhea. As a
result, mortality from these diseases in the preschool population would be
reduced, the associated deterioration in nutritional status prevented,
absenteeism from school and work lowered and workers' productivity and the
quality of life of the population improved. Scope and content of proposed
nutrition interventions would be novel for the Philippines. It is expected
that during implementation valuable experience would be gained which would
enable replication elsewhere in the Philippines, possibly in thLe framework
of a foreign-assisted, freestanding nutrition project.
Fiscal Impact
7.03      The Government would receive US$15 million (FL 111 million) from
taxes and duties and the proceeds of the loan during the initial five-year
period. Total cash outflows, including Government expenditures and debt
service, would amount to US$20 million (P 148 million), produci'ng a cumula-
tive net deficit for the Government budget of US$5 million (P 37 million).
The annual budgetary net effect in future years after Project completion would
be favorable (Table 7.1), pointing towards good prospects for replicability,
from a public finance point of view, of rainfed projects elsewhlere in the
country.



- 54 -
Table 7.1: INCREMENTAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL OUTFLOWS AND INFLOWS
(US$ million)
Net inflows
Year            Outflows             Inflows            Annual        Cumulative
1                4                   1                  (3)            (3)
2                6                   2                  (4)            (7)
3                3                   3                                 (7)
4                3                   5                   2             (5)
5                4                   4                                 (5)
6                3                   4                   1             (4)
7                2                   4                   2             (2)
8                2                   4                   2
Foreign Exchange Effect
7.04      During the initial five-year period of the Project, the inflow of
foreign exchange as external loan and from rice exports is estimated at
US$32 million (P 237 million). The foreign exchange content of Project
investments and operations and debt service on external loans would be
US$29 million (P 215 million). Moreover, the value of foreign exchange
savings through import substitution of corn, sorghum and beef produced under
the Project would be US$13 million (P 95 million), resulting in a positive
effect on the country's foreign exchange balance of US$16 million (P 118
million) for the five-year period. Annual net foreign exchange savings
including debt service payments would be about US$11 million (P 80 million)
in Year 8 (1987) and would continue to increase thereafter (Table 7.2).
Table 7.2: INFLOWS AND OUTFLOWS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE
(US$ million)
Foreign        Total
exchange        net
Year      Inflows       Outflows        Net inflow       savings        effect
1            _            2                (2)             -            (2)
2             3            5               (2)             1            (1)
3             6            5                1              2             3
4            11            7                4              4             8
5            12           10                2              6             8
6            13           10                3              7            10
7           14           10                 4              7            11
8            14          10                 4              7            11



- 55 -
Employment Effects
7.05      The Project would create a net demand for an additional 850,000
man-days of farm labor per year equivalent to about 25 man-days -er farm,
or 4,430 full-time jobs for eight months of the year. This estimate
already takes into account a partial mechanization of field operations on
30-50% of the Project farms. Without mechanization, the labor requirements
could not be met and would become a limiting factor in farm production. The
multiple cropping technology has a very favorable effect on the utilization
of farm family labor since requirements are more evenly distributed through-
out the year. Some increase in farm family labor employment would substi-
tute for off-farm employment, however. The employment multiplier effect in
the agribusiness system would be significant as the portion of incremental
output to be processed and consumed locally would be large.
Impact on Food Availability and Prices
7.06      The Project's production component would be entirely for foodcrops,
feed grains and livestock, hence the impact on food availability would be
very positive for the Project area as well as other parts of thle country
(para. 7.02). To the extent that prices for commodities other than grains
are not strictly controlled by Government, a periodic softening in consumer
prices could occur as a result of the Project. However, the improved effi-
ciency of the marketing system, the growing food demand in the country as a
whole and some migration of outside population to Iloilo province are
expected to combine to even out local price fluctuations and generate price
developments over time similar to the national trend.
Environmental Effects
7.07      Intensive cropping would increase the amount of inorganic fer-
tilizer and agricultural chemicals applied per unit area of land. Nitrogen
fertilization could increase by 60%, resulting in the addition of 30 kg per
hectare or 1,800 tons of nitrogen per year for the whole Project area. For
pest control chemicals, the increase could average about 3 kg of active
ingredient per hectare or 180 tons per year for the Project area. Only a
fraction of the added chemicals are absorbed by the plants (60% or less) and
most of the remainder are dissolvd in water and enter the environment.
Iloilo is an island province with a long shoreline, and most of the agricul-
tural pollutants are being drained to the rivers and into the sea. Govern-
ment agencies are monitoring the level of pollution in the rivers and
streams of the province and should be able to detect any significant
increase due to fertilizers and agricultural chemicals.
Derivation of Economic Prices
7.08      In the economic analysis it has been assumed that all rice produced
by the Project would be exported and that the production of corn, sorghum,
beef and milk would substitute for equivalent imports. Furthermore, with



- 56 -
the incremental production generated by the Project, the country, as is now
the case, would be self-sufficient in mung, peanuts, green corn, tomatoes,
beans, pork and goat meat. Export parity prices have thus been calculated
for rice, and import parity prices for import substitutes. For mung,
peanuts, pork and goat meat, the economic price has been assumed to be the
average of the respective export and import parity prices, while for green
corn, tomatoes and beans the economic price has been assumed to be equal to
the local market price. The derivation of rice prices is shown in Table
7.3; the derivation of other prices is presented in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.
A summary of all economic prices is given in Table 7.4.
Table 7.3: PRICE STRUCTURE FOR RICE, AS OF JANUARY 1980
Financial      Economic
World market price (US$/t)                                 332            332
-~~(PIt)-
Rice selling price, f.o.b. Philippine port                2,424         2,955
Less
Port charges                                               47            50
Port storage and handling                                 44             47
Transport, mill to port                                   62             65
Milling - fee                                             90             95
- other                                           78             81
Subtotal                                               321            338
Plus value of milling byproducts                            206            220
Price of rice ex-mill, inland                          2,309          2,837
Price equivalent per ton of palay, 62%                   1,432          1,759
Less palay farm procurement                                 111            117
Export parity price for palay at farm-gate             1,321          1,642
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
7.09      Benefits.  Expected future yields and production with and without
the Project are discussed in Chapter 5; economic prices are presented in
Table 7.4. Economic benefits include the crop and livestock production,
valued at economic prices. For water impounding, benefits other than those
related to irrigation could not be quantified, although such benefits could
be substantial.



- 5 7 -
Table 7.4:  ECONOMIC COMMODITY PRICES, AS OF JANUARY 1980
Commodity                             Price
--------------(L /t) -         ---_____
Rice                                   1,642
Corn, grain                            1,436
Sorghum                               1,301
Mung                                   6,037
Peanuts                               5,142
Green corn                               720
Tomatoes                               1,000
Beans                                  1,450
Beef                                  7,317
Pork                                  9,508
Goat meat                             3,464
Milk                                   3,295
---------------- (P/head) ----------------
Work animal                            1,829
Weanlings (fattening)                    238
7.10      Foreign Exchange. Due to relevant government policies, chief
among which are import taxes and import quotas, the official exchange rate
of US$1.00 = P 7.40 understates the value of foreign exchange to the country.
Therefore, the foreign exchange component to the Project capital and recur-
rent cost, and the foreign exchange earned through rice exports and saved
through import substitution was valued at a shadow exchange rate that was
derived by estimating the standard conversion factor for the Philippines
which was about 0.9 for a period covering the years since the mrid-1970s.
7.11      Farm Labor.  Although there is significant off-farm employment in
the Project area, farm family labor is partially unemployed at present.
During the peak months it is common for farmers to hire labor. Employment
of both farm family and hired labor would increase as a result of the
Project and, to meet peak season requiremnts, operations would have to be
partially mechanized (para. 5.16). This tightening of the labor situation
would raise the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor. The economic cost
of farm labor would vary from month to month, reflecting the seasonality of
labor demand, and has been estimated to average approximately P 8.8 per
man-day for the whole year. Hired farm labor and all nonfarm labor has been
costed at full market wage rates in the evaluation.



- 58 -
7.12      Investment Costs.  The economic cost of investments is partially
based on Project cost estimates presented in Table 3.6. All capital and
recurrent costs include physical contingencies, but exclude costs due to price
increase and have been adjusted for taxes and duties by 8-18% for the various
components. Included are 100% of the costs for extension, production of crops
and livestock, water impounding and management support. The cost of adaptive
research trials in locations outside Iloilo has been excluded as the resulting
benefits could not be quantified. Also excluded is one third of the costs of
the grains shipment facility, representing the expected nonproject related use
of that facility. Furthermore, 22% of the cost of training has been excluded
since these investments would generate wide benefits, primarily among farmers
not participating in the project, that could not be quantified in the
analysis. Anemia control and diarrhea management have not been costed for the
purpose of the economic analysis since these are social investments whose
benefits cannot be satisfactorily measured in monetary terms. Since it is
essential for the Project that roads in the Project area are improved, the
relevant portion of costs of such improvements (P 86 million at economic
prices) (para. 2.34), plus related O&M charges have been accounted for. The
cost of production of crops and livestock is based on the cropping pattern and
farm budgets descibed in Chapter 6; adjustments have been made for taxes and
the economic cost of farm labor.
7.13      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over a 25-year period, the economic rate of
return of the Project is 37%. The rate of return would be 41% without water
impounding.  For the water impounding component alone the rate of return
would be 15%. Economic costs and benefits for the project as a whole and
separately for water impounding are shown in detail in Annex 4, Tables 3 and
4, and are summarized in Table 7.5.
Table 7.5:  SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(P million)
Year          Incremental costs            Incremental benefits
1                    48.6                           7.1
2                     62.5                         32.8
3                     88.0                         75.7
4                    118.6                        128.3
5                    139.9                        170.7
6                   119.8                         192.6
7                   124.1                         200.5
8                   124.1                         201.3
9-25                 124.8                        202.0
Economic Rate of Return:  37%



- 59 -
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
7.14      The estimated rate of return could be adversely affected by a
number of physical and price factors. The most important of these would be
underachievements in the project yields, cropping intensity and farmer
participation, and higher prices of inputs and lower prices of products.
Sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested and found most responsive
to output yields and prices. A summary of this analysis is presented in
Table 7.6. The project would still yield an acceptable overall rate of
return of 14% even if incremental costs increased by 53% above aLnd incre-
mental benefits fell 29% below expectations. For water impounding alone,
the respective variation to yield a 14% rate of return could only be 3%.
Table 7.6: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Economic rate of return
(%)
Whole project
Base line                                             37
10% increase in costs                                 28
10% decrease in benefits                              27
One year lag in benefits                              20
Water impounding
Base line                                             15
10% increase in costs                                 12
10% decrease in benefits                              11
One year lag in benefits                              11
7.15      Intensification of land use through crop production would have at
least two major consequences. First, crops would be grown all year long,
even during that part of the year when the climate is not so favorable for
crop production. If two rice crops are produced per year, the first crop
has to be planted in early May in order that the second crop can be
harvested before the end of the rainy season in December. Early planting
definitely would increase the probability of crop failure since rainfall in
early Mlay is not as reliable as in July or August, the traditional planting
date for a single rice pattern. If in addition to the two rice crops
another upland crop is added, seeding will be delayed until later December
even if the best time for planting could be in November. The increased
probability of drought or operationally-induced water stress has been
considered in the yield estimates (para. 5.09), and the estimated Project
benefits thus explicitly take this risk into account. Insofar as the
Project beneficiaries are concerned, the Philippine Government is keenly
aware of crop failure and is instituting a system of crop insurance and a
procedure of restructuring crop loans, both of which could greatly assist a
farmer to tide over a bad crop failure.



- 60 -
7.16      A second consequence of crop intensification is the significant
increase in labor and capital requirements, both of which could be up to
twice as much as a farmer moves from a single crop to more intensive
cropping.   . farmer may, therefore, resist crop intensification because he is
not willing to put in more of his time and/or to provide or borrow the added
capital needed for intensification. However, Iloilo farmers are known for
their industry, and experience wth Kabsaka and multiple cropping projects in
the province have shown farmers' willingness to accept the increased labor
requirement provided the returns are good. In terms of constraints on cash
requirements, the existing banking system is well geared to providing
adequate financing at reasonable terms, and efforts would be increased
to grant production loans on a yearly basis in order to take care of all
expenses for the purchase of material inputs and a portion of the labor cost
and minimize administrative bottlenecks. The evaluation based on less than
50% of farmer par icipation in the project area, and the risk of an even
lower participation rate is considered small.
7.17      The water impounding component faces special risk elements since
irrigation is completely new to the participating farmers, the viability of
such small schemes in other countries has in some instances been low, and
the Bureau of Soils as the main implementing agency has limited experience
in the field of irrigation. These risks are expected to be minimized
through various measures. The Bureau of Soils would strengthen its staff
and, in cooperation with NIA, would subject each proposed scheme to a
rigorous analysis to assure their technical and financial soundness, and
implement strict operational and maintenanc criteria. FSDC and BAEx have a
proven capability to provide new irrigation farmers with the necessary
organizational and agronomic advice, and effective cooperation of these
agencies is assured uner the Project. The rate of success with water
impounding schemes in the province is mixed but the circumstances prevailing
in Iloilo seem to be favorable; one existing new scheme is being success-
fully operated and the farmers are keenly interested in participating in
construction with their own labor, thus enhancing their commitment.
However, since there is a strong pilot element inherent in this component,
one objective is precisely to assess the degree of risk involved in such
schemes and to devise measures for risk minimization from the experience
that would be gained.
7.18      The major risks deriving from deficiencies in marketing and other
postharvest operations would be reduced to acceptable levels through the
improvement of roads (para. 2.34), the provision of marketing infrastructure
(para. 2.35), the streamlining of institutional arrangements (para. 4.08)
and appropriate Government policy concerning prices and marketing margins
(para. 6.05).



- 61 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a) prior to implementation, an evaluation report for water impounding
and irrigation systems costing P 900,000 or more would be fur-
nished to the Bank for review and that summary data forms would be
forwarded, for the other systems (para. 3.17);
(b) arrangements concerning the cooperation between NIA, FSDC and the
Bureau of Soils regarding implementation of the water impounding
componenL be formalized no later than September 30, 1980
(para. 4.06);
(c) the Project Training Coordinator would be appointed by June 30,
1980 under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.10);
(d)- an implementation plan for the pilot village development program,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be furnished by December 31, 1980
(para. 4.11); and
(e) the Monitoring and Research Officer would be appointed, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, no later than June 30,
1980, that a monitoring and evaluation system would be designed in
consultation with the Bank by November 30, 1980 and that the system
would be implemented no later than January 31, 1981 (para. 4.19).
8.02      It would be a condition of Project effectiveness that:
(a) the Project Management Committee had been established with compo-
sition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.01);
(b) the Interagency Project Coordinating Committee had been estab-
lished with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.02);
(c) detailed policies and implementing guidelines for Letter of In-
struction No. 898 had been issued and are in force (para. 4.06);
and
(d)  the Project Manager had been appointed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.14).
8.03      Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is recommended for
expenses incurred on project start-up activities (para. 3.40).
8.04      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.0 million for a
period of 20 years; including a grace period of 5 years.



- 62 _
ANNEX 1
Table I
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Agricultural Production Services
(US$'000)
Prolect year
1       2        3       4        5      Total
A. Extension Services
Facilities                    32.6    39.2      8.1      8.1      0.8      88.8
Vehicles and equipment        54.0    17.5      0.9      -        -        72.4
Materials                     22.4    17.1    25.2    30.2    20.1        115.0
Personnel                     34.1    59.2    64.1    64.1    64.1        285.6
O&M                           20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3        101.5
Subtotal A             163.4   153.3   118.6   122.7   105.3         663.3
B. Livestock Program
Livestock Development
Facilities                  54.1     -        -        -       -         54.1
Breeding stock              37.2    74.3    37.2       -       -        148.7
Vehicles and equipment    28.5       6.1      -        _       _         34.6
Personnel                   23.4    38.3    41.6    41.6    41.6        186.5
Subtotal                143.2   118.7    78.8    41.6    41.6        423.9
Diagnostic Laboratory
Facilities                  27.0     -        -        -       -         27.0
Equipment                   46.6      2.7     -        -       -         49.3
Personnel                    4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0       20.0
O&M                          5.4      5.4     5.4      5.4     5.4       27.0
Subtotal                 83.0    12.1      9.4      9.4     9.4      123.3
Animal Health Program
Equipment                    5.1     5.8      6.7      2.7     2.7       23.0
Materials                   13.5    27.0    40.6    67.7    88.0        236.8
Subtotal                 18.6    32.8    47.3    70.4    90.7        259.8
Subtotal B             244.8   163.6   135.5   121.4   141.7         807.0
C. Seed Production
Facilities                    13.5      -       -        -        -        13.5
Vehicles and equipment        17.2    17.2    11.9       -        -        46.3
Personnel                      7.8    14.3    20.2    20.2    20.2         82.7
Subtotal C              38.5    31.5    32.1    20.2    20.2         142.5
Total                  446.7   348.4   286.2   264.3   267.2   1,612.8
Physical contingencies (10%)        44,7    34.8    28.6    26.4    26.7         161.2
Price contingencies                  34.4    72.8    91.3   113.4   144.0        455.9
Total Cost             525.8   456.0   406.1   404.1   437.9   2,229.9
January 18, 1980



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED -AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Prolect Cost Details and Phasing
Adaptive Trials and Research
(US$'000)
Project year
1       2        3        4        5      Total
A. Adaptive Trials in Iloilo
Facilities                     20.2     -        -        -        -         20.2
Vehicles and equipment         58.5      -       -        -        -         58.5
Materials                       1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4        7.0
Personnel                      23.9    34.3    34.3    34.3    34.3         161.1
O&M                             8.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1          56.5
Subtotal A              112.1    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8         303.3
B. Trials and Reseach in Other
Provinces
Facilities                     81.1    81.1    81.1    81.1        -        324.4
Vehicles and equipment         40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0        -        160.0
Materials                       2.7      6.8    10.1    13.5    13.5         46.6
Personnel                      10.4    46.5    70.5    93.0    93.0         313.4
O&M                             2.7      6.8    10.1    13.5    13.5         46.6
Subtotal B              136.9   181.2   211.8   241.1   120.0         891.0
Total                   249.0   229.0   259.6   288.9   167.8   14194.3
Physical contingencies (10%)         24.9    22.9    26.0    28.9    16.8          119.5
Price contingencies                  19.2    47.9    82.8   123.9    90.5          364.3
Total Cost              293.1   299.8   368.4   441.7   275.1   1,678.1
January 18, 1980



_ 64 _
ANNEX I
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Water Impounding
(US$OO)
Project year
1        2         3         4         5      Total
A. Water Impounding Dams
Dams, intake works              292.1      347.7   406.0       509.4      581.5   2,136.7
Main and secondary distri-
bution systems                 45.2       54.6    63.8        79.8       91.7      335.1
Main and secondary drainage
systems                        36.8       44.6    52.5        66.1       76.0      276.0
On-farm ditches and drains    14.1          17.0    20.0        24.3       27.7      103.1
Topographical survey and
mapping                         4.9        5.9      6.9        8.5        9.7       35.9
Engineering supervision          39.3       47.0    54.9        68.8       78.7      288.7
Conservation measures            10.8       10.8    10.8        10.8       10.8       54.0
Subtotal A                  443.2      527.6   614.9       767.7      876.1   3,229.5
B. Maintenance Equipment
Machinery and vehicles          176.5      270.3      -          -          -        446.8
Other equipment                  27.0       12.6      -          -          -         39.6
Spare parts                      40.7       56.6      -          -          -         97.3
Subtotal B                  244.2      339.5      -          -          -        583.7
C. Consultancy Services /a
Personnel                        71.9       71.9    71.9        71.9       71.9      359.5
Support services                  5.4        5.4      5.4        5.4        5.4       27.0
Vehicles and equipment           14.5        -        -          -          -         14.5
Subtotal C                   91.8        77.3    77.3        77.3       77.3     406.5
Total                        779.2      944.4   692.2      845.0       953.4   4,214.2
Physical contingencies /b              122.2      147.2   131.0       161.3      183.0      744.7
Price contingencies                     63.1      196.5   230.5      372.3       534.1   1,396 5
Total Cost                   946.5   1,288.1 1,053.7   1,378.6   1,670.5   6,355.4
/a  Includes travel expenses.
/b  Physical contingencies of dams at 20%; maintenance equipment, project preparation and
consultancy at 10%.
December 14, 1979



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Grains Storage and Shipment Facility
(US$'000)
Project year
1      2          3       4      5       Total
Equipment /a                   100.0  1,700.0       -        -         -  1,800.0
Buildings                           -        -      -        -      700.0    700.0
Total                     100.0  1,700.0       -        -     700.0  2.500.0
Physical contingencies, 15%    15.0    255.0        -        -      105.0    375.0
Price contingencies               8.1    371.5      -        -     394.4    774.0
Total Cost                123.1  2,326.5       -        -   1 119.4  3,649.0
/a  To be installed at existing NGA facilities.
January 18, 1980



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Training
(US $'000)
Project year
1      2       3       4        5      Total
A. Training Program
Facilities /a                      162.4  342.8    -         -       -        505.2
Vehicles                            24.0   10.3    -         -       -         34.3
Materials                            4.8    7.5    5.7    2.2    1.1           21.3
Personnel
Administrative staff               1.2    1.7    2.0    2.0    1.8            8.7
Training staff                    24.8   26.9   19.5    8.2    8.2           87.6
Consultancies
Training program                  56.7   14.2    9.5    -          -         80.4
Management                        10.9   18.9    -         -       -         29.8
Subsistence & Travel
Allowances
Philippines - Farmers              8.8   11.9   17.4   13.5    6.4           58.0
- MOA staff         68.9   90.5   48.1       8.9    8.9       225.3
- NGA staff          2.4    5.0    -         -       -          7.4
- Bank's staff       5.0   10.0    6.5    5.7    -             27.2
- MLGCD              4.4   10.9   10.9       1.7    1.7        29.6
Overseas                          32.9   20.5    4.3    -          -         57.7
O&M                                  2.1   10.6   15.0   15.0   15.0           57.7
Subtotal A                     409.3  581.7  138.9   57.2   43.1    1.230.2
B. Pilot Village Development
Program
Facilities                          13.5    -       54.1   54.1    -          121.7
Vehicles                            10.3    -        -       2.5    -          12.8
Materials                            2.7    -       10.9   10.9    -           24.5
Personnel                            2.6    2.6   10.6   24.0    -             39.8
Technical assistance /b             57.8   52.0   40.5   40.5    -            190.8
Subsistence & travel                15.9    2.7   63.0   84.6    -            166.2
O&M                                  3.7    3.7    3.7    4.4    -             15.5
Evaluation and social
Baseline study                       9.0    5.7    5.4   14.0    -             34.1
Subtotal B                      115.5   66.7  188.2  235.0    -           605.4
Total                           524.8  648.4  327.1  292.2   43.1    1.835.6
Physical contingencies /a             68.6   99.2   32.7   29.2    4.3          234.0
Price contingencies                   41.5  142.0  104.3  125.3   23.2          436.3
Total Cost                      634.9  889.6  464.1  446.7   70.6   2.505.9
/a  Physical contingencies for Training Center 20%, other 10%.
/b Including technical assistance for social baseline study.
January 18, 1980



_ 67 _
ANNEX 1
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
ProJect Cost Details and Phasing
Nutrition
(US$'000)
Project year
1        2        3         4        5       Total
Facilities and equipment    143.8      44.1      29.6      -         -        217.5
Materials - Nutrition         70.0      45.6     39.5     39.5      39.5      234.1
- Training         56.5      20.2      4.3       -        -          81.0
Personnel /a                  28.8     26.6      24.0     25.7      24.1      129.2
Consultancies                 46.2     29.6      19.7     19.7       9.9      125.1
Training allowances          108.2     42.0       -        -         -        150.2
Media use                      -        68.6     68.6     68.6      68.6      274.4
Monitoring and evaluation    30.1        6.8     17.6      -        13.9       68.4
Miscellaneous                 23.3      21.8     17.3     17.3      17.3       97.0
Total                   506.9    305.3    220.6    170.8    173.3    1,376.9
Physical contingencies        50.6     30.6      22.0     17.1      17.3      137.6
Price contingencies           39.0     63.8      70.4     73.3      93.4      339.9
Total Cost              596.5    399.7    313.0    261.2    284.0    1,854.4
/a Including travel allowances.
January 18, 1980



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Prolect Cost Details and Phasing
Proiect Preparation
(US$'000)
Project year
1        2         3       4    5     Total
A. Bureau of Soils
salaries                         29.6      29.6      29.6    -    -         88.8
Consultancies                     72.0     72.0      72.0    -    -        216.0
Materials and supplies            20.7     26.6      20.7    -    -         68.0
Vehicles and equipment          108.5      34.5       -       -    -       143.0
Other                            44.4      46.4      40.5    -    -        131.3
Subtotal A                 275.2    209.1    162.8    -    -         647.1
B. Mindanao
Salaries                         25.0      25.0       -       -    -        50.0
Soil mapping                     64.1      59.2       -       -    -       123.3
Farmer surveys                   24.7      24.7       -       -    -        49.4
Market studies                    14.8      9.9       -       -    -        24.7
Training                          24.7     24.7       -       -    -        49.4
Laboratory and offices            74.0     24.7       -       -    -        98.7
Vehicles and equipment           98.7       -         -       -    -        98.7
Materials                         19.7      9.9       -       -    -        29.6
Other                             9.9       9.9       -       -    -        19.8
Subtotal B                 355.6    188.0       -       -    -       543.6
Total                      630.8    397.1    162.8    -    -    1,190.7
Physical contingencies                  63.1      39.7      16.2    -    -       119.0
Price contingencies                     48.6      83.0      51.9    -    -       183.5
Total Cost                 742.5    519.8    230.9    -    -    1,493.2
January 18, 1980



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Project Management
(US$' 000)
Project year
1      2       3      4       5     Total
A. Secretariat
Facilities                            3.0    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9        26.6
Vehicles                             10.2    -       -       -       -        10.2
-  Equipment                             8.1    -        -      -       -         8.1
Personnel
Salaries                            5.7   13.4   13.4   13.4   13.4        59.3
Honoraries                          5.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0        45.0
O&M                                   5.4    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8         40.6
Subtotal A                        37.4   38.1   38.1   38.1   38.1    189.8
B. Project Management Unit
Facilities                            2.7    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4         24.3
Vehicles /a                          58.8    -       -       -       -        58.8
Equipment                             9.5    -       -       -       -         9.5
Personnel
Hcnoraries                          2.9    5.7    5.7    5.7    5.7        25.7
Salaries
Project manager's office /a   28.8   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7    207.6
Agricultural coordinator          5.0    8.3    8.3    8.3    8.3        38.2
Marketing coordinator             4.1    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6        30.5
Nutrition coordinator             2.6    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4         16.2
Monitoring and evaluation /b         21.0   38.0   30.0   30.0   40.0    159.0
O&M                                  12.8   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6         99.2
Consultancies                        47.9   60.0   60.0   47.9   47.9    263.7
Subtotal B                       196.1  193.7  185.7  173.6  183.6    932.7
Total                            233.5  231.8  223.8  211.7  221.7  1,122.5
Physical contingencies                     23.4   23.2   22.4   21.2   22.2    112.4
Price contingencies                        18.0   48.5   71.4   90.8  119.5    348.2
Total Cost                      274.9  303.5  317.6  323.7  363.4  1,583.1
/a  Includes provision for monitoring and evaluation.
/b Does not include vehicles and personnel.
January 18, 1980



- 70 -
ANNEX I
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(US$'000)
Project year                                       F.E.
1        2          3        4         5         Total      %      Amount
Agricultural Production Services
Extension services                       163,4    153.3      118.6    122.7    105.3       663.3      28      186.9
Livestock program                        244.8    163.6    135.5    121.4    141.7          807.0      21     171.3
Seed production                           38.5      31.5      32.1      20.2     20.2       142.5     31       44.2
Subtotal                             446.7    348.4    286.2    264.3    267.2   1,612.8           25      402.4
Adaptive Trials and Research
Iloilo                                  112.1      47.8      47.8      47.8      47.8      303.3      29       88.0
Other provinces                          136.9    181.2    211.8    241.1        120.0     891.0       32     288.0
Subtotal                             249.0    229.0    259.6    288.9    167.8   1,194.3           31      376.0
Water Impounding
W4ater impounding dams                  443.2    527.6    614.9    767.7    876.1   3,229.5            45   1,453.3
M'aintenance equipment                   244.2    339.5        -         -         -        583.7      90     525.3
Consultancies services                    91.8      77.3      77.3      77.3      77.3     406.5      86      349.6
Subtotal                             779.2    944.4    692.2    845.0    953.4   4.214.2           55   2.328.2
Grains Storage and Shipment Facility   100.0  1.700.0              -         -    700.0   2.500.0        69   1,720.0
Training
Training program                         409.3    581.7      138.9      57.2      43.1   1,230.2       30     369.1
Pilot village development program    115.5          66.7    188.2    235.0        -        605.4       39     236.1
Subtotal                             524.8    648.4    327.1    292.2         43.1   1,835.6       33      605.2
Nutrition                                  506.9    305.3    220.6    170.8    173.3   1,376.9           29      399.3
Project Preparation                        630.8    397.1      162.8       -         -      1,190.7      57     684.4
Project Management
Secretariat                               37.4     38.1       38.1     38.1      38.1      189.8      10       19.0
Project management unit                  196.1    193.7    185.7    173.6    183.6         932.7       31     289.0
Subtotal                             233.5    231.8    223.8    211.7    221.7   1,122.5           27      308.0
Total                              2,526.5  2,072.9  2.172.3  4,804.4  3,470.9  15,047.0           45   6.823.5
Physical contingencies                     412.5    652.6    278.9    284.1        375.3   2,003.4       45     901.5
Price contingencies                        271.9  1,026.0    702.6    899.0  1,399.1   4,298.6           45   1,934.0
Total Cost                         3,210.9  3.751.5  3,153,.8  5,987.5  5,245.3  21,349.0          45   9,659.0
January 18, 1980



- 71 -                                           ANNFX 1
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(Amount in P' 000)
Beneficiaries        Government              IBRD            Total
Component                         Amount              Amount               A mount    X        anount
Agricultural Production Setvices
Salaries                                    -       -       1,552.7      48      1,682.1   52         3,234.8
Facilities                                 88.5      7        427.3    31          841.5   62         1, 357.3
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -        400.7    25        1,202.2    75        1,602.9
Other                                       -        -      5,739.7   100              -      -       5,739.7
Subtotal                                88.5     1      8,120.4      68      3.725.8   31         11,934.7
Adaptive Trials and Research
Salaries                                    -        -      1,756.0      50      1,756.0   50         3,512.0
Facilities                                  -       -         637.5    25        1,912.5   75         2,550.0
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -        404.2    25        1,212.8    7'i       1,617.0
Other                                       -        -      1,160.0   100              -      --      1,160.0
Subtotal                                 -       -      3,957.7      45      4.881.3   55          8,839.0
Water Impounding
Civil works                             1,709.1      8      4,272.8      20     15,382.1    72       21,364.0
Salaries                                    -        -      1,068.0      50      1,068.0   50         2,136.0
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -      1,106.5      25      3,319.5   7'5        4,426.0
Consultancies                               -        -        715.0      25      2,145.0    75        2,860.0
Other                                     120.0   30          280.0    70             -                  400.0
Subtotal                            1,829.1      6      7,442.3      24     21,914.6   7()       31,186.0
Grains Shipment Facility
Equipment                                   -        -      3,330.0      25      9,990.0   75        13,320.0
Buildings                                   -        -      1,295.0    25        3,885.0   75         5,180.0
Subtotal                                 -       -      4,625.0      25     13,875.0   75         18,500.0
Training
Salaries                                    -        -        503.1      50        504.0   53         1,007.1
Facilities                                  -        -      1,159.6      25      3,479.0   75         4,638.6
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -        171.9    25          515.6   75            687.5
Allowances                                  -        -      3,808.3    100            -       -       3,808.3
Consultancies and surveys                   -        -        620.0    25        1,859.0   75         2,479.0
Foreign travel                              -       -             -       -        428.0  100           428.(
Other                                       -        -         534.9  100             -                  534.9
Subtotal                                 -       -       6,797.8   50        6,785.6   50)        13,583.4
Nutrition
Salaries                                    -        -         111.0   50          111.0    5)           222.0
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -         402.2   25        1,206.8   75         1,609.0
Medical supplies                             -       -         434.0   25        1,302.0   75         1,736.0
Training and study                           -       -         278.0   25          834.0   75         1,112.0
Consultancies and surveys                   -        -         215.0   15        1,217.0   85         1,432.0
Other                                       -        -       4,066.0  100             -       -       4,066.0
Subtotal                                 -       -       5,506.2   54        4.670.8   46         10,177.0
Project Preparation
Salaries                                    -       -          688.1   50          688.1   50         1,376.2
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -         629.2   25        1,887.8   75         2,517.0
Materials                                   -        -          10.0   25         940.0   75            720.0
Consultancies                               -        -         732.0   25        2,196.0   75         2,928.0
Other                                       -        -       1,270.0  100             -       -       1,270.0
Subtotal                                 -       -       3,499.3   40        5,311.9   60          8,811.2
Project Management
Salaries                                    -       -        1,300.5   50        1,300.5    50        2,601.0
Vehicles and equipment                      -        -         160.0   25          480.0   75            640.0
Consultancies and surveys                   -        -         781.5   25        2,344.5   75         3,126.0
Other                                       -       -        1,935.0  100             -       -       1,935.0
Subtotal                                 -       -       4,177.0   51        4,125.0   42          8,302.0
Total All Components                1,917.6      2      44.125.7   39    65,290.0   59          111,333.3
Contingencies                               933.0      2      22,206.7   48       23,510.0   50        46,649.7
Total Cost and Financing            2,850.6      2      66,332.4   42       88.800.0   56       157,983.0
January 18, 1980



- 72 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AC,RICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs            Proposed
Category                          Total      Poreign       loan               Disbursement
 ---------  (P'00O)  -- --------
}.  Physical Infrastructure Works                                       28,120      75% of total expenditure.
Agricultural production services           1,357         480
Adaptive trials and research               2,550       1,020
Water impounding                          21,364      10,709
Grains shipment facility                   5,180       2,072
Training                                   4,639       1,711
Expected price increases                  10,580      4,790
Subtotal                            45.670      20.782
II.  Vehicles. Equipment and Supplies                                    28,860      100% of foreign exchange, or
Agricultural production services           1,603       1,219                 100% of local expenditures,
Adaptive trials and research               1,617       1,294                 ex-factory, if locally manu-
Water impounding                           4,426       3,983                 factured, or 75% of total
Grains shipment facility                  13,320      10,656                 costs, locally procured.
Training                                     688         339
Nutrition                                  3,345       2,348
Project preparation                        3,237       2,333
Project management                           640         434
Expected price increases                   8,920      6,180
Subtotal                            37,796      28.786
IlIt.  Training, Surveys and Consultancies                                11,840      100% of foreign exchange
Water impounding                           2,860       2,454                 of overseas training; 100%
Training                                   2,907       2,000                 of consultant's services;
Nutrition                                  2,544         516                 75% of local training and
Project preparation                        2,928       2,222                 surveys.
Project management                         3,126       1,680
Expected price increases                   4,480       2,980
Subtotal                            18,845      11,852
IV.  Local Salaries                                                       7,400      50% of total costs.
Agricultural production services           3,235           -
Adaptive trials and research               3,512           -
Water impounding                           2,136           -
Training                                   1,007           -
Nutrition                                    222           -
Project preparation                        1,376           -
Project management                         2,601           -
Expected price increases                   4,400           -
Subtotal                            18,489-
V. Ineligible Items
Agricultural production services           5,740       1,279
Adaptive trials and research               1, 160        468
Water impounding                             400          83
Training                                   4,343         428
Nutrition                                  4,066          91
Project preparation                        1,270         510
Project management                         1,935         165
Expected price increases                   3,429         362
Subtotal                            22,343       3,386
VI.  Unallocated                                                         12,580
Physical contingenries                    14,840       6,671
Total                              157,983      71,477      88.800
January 18, 1980



- 73
ANNEX 1
Table 12
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                            Accumulated disEbursements
and semester                              -- (US$'000 equivalent) -
FY81
1st                                                 32CI
2nd                                                 860
FY82
1st                                               1,680
2nd                                               2,640
FY83
1st                                               3,690
2nd                                               5,090
FY84
1st                                               7,190,
2nd                                               8,290
FY85
1st                                               9,290
2nd                                              10,230
FY86
1st                                              11,170
2nd                                              12,000
+
December 14, 1979



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Accounting Procedures of Government Agencies
1.        A portion of the project would be undertaken through force account
work. It is anticipated that up to one-third of the water impounding
schemes would be constructed by either NIA, the Bureau of Soils or the
Provincial Engineer's Office under force account as the scattered location
and bunching of construction requirements might cause difficulties for the
local construction industry. The force account work is estimated to cost
about US$1.6 million. Furthermore, proceeds of the loan would be used to
finance part of the cost of surveys and of training activities conducted by
government agencies (total cost US$1.8 million) and certain local salaries
(US$2.0 million).
2.        A Bank mission visited the regional offices of the agencies
concerned and examined the relevant budgeting and accounting procedures.
The Budget Examiners and Planning Officers of each regional office prepare
a yearly Work and Financial Plan by consolidating provincial plans and includ-
ing regional office requirements. The plans are approved by the respective
Regional Directors and submitted to the Regional Development Council - NEDA;
copies are forwarded to the Ministry of the Budget (MOB) and the respective
agency's head office in Manila. After review of the plans by the Regional
Development Council, revised versions are sent to MOB and the head offices.
The final revision at the regional level takes place during the budget
hearing, which is called by MOB and includes all government agencies. The
final budget is formulated in Manila by MOB and the other ministries.
3.        There are procedures for the acquisition of supplies and materials
and for current accounting established by the Commission on Audit (COA).
Supplies are purchased either through canvassing of local dealers (under P
5,000) or bidding procedures (above P5,000). After supplies are delivered
into the custody of the Supply Officer, COA makes an inspection. The Supply
Officer prepares purchase papers, which are certified by the Regional
Accountant as to availability of funds. A voucher is forwarded to the
cashier who issues a check for payment of the supplier.
4.        For civil works, a Letter of Instruction exists specifying that all
government civil works must be approved under the infrastructure program of
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). After notification, bidding takes place
under NPW supervision. Contracts are signed by the contractor and the
agency's regional director, with confirmation by COA. NPIW supervises con-
struction and recommends payment to the regional director.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The accounting for these transactions involves entry into the
Journal of Analysis of Obligations (JAO) before payment is madle. At the end
of each mQnth a report is prepared by the cashier of checks issued by the
deputized disposing officer. This report is submitted to the Regional
Accountant for reconciliation with the JAO. An entry is then made in the
General Ledger. A trial balance is made once a month, which is submitted
to COA for verification. Thereafter, the accounts are submitted to the
head office for consolidation. The consolidated trial balance is submitted
to the respective Ministry Chief Accountant for consolidation and forwarding
to the National Accounting Office of the Budget Commission.
6.        Staff positions and salaries also are tightly controlled.  Regional
offices have to submit requests for additional positions to the Office of
Compensation and Position Classification (OCPC) where an analysis of need is
conducted. After approval, the new position is included in the Plantilla of
the Regional Office. A request for funds to the Budget Commission follows,
and recruitment can take place after approval is received. An appointment
is issued after all required clearances are completed, and the papers sub-
mitted to the Civil Service Board for affirmation. As an exception, there
are also contractual employees who are not registered in the Plantilla.
7.        The payroll is prepared by the Accounting Clerk twice a month,
approved by the Regional Director, and certified by the Regional Accountant
as to availability of funds. The cashier prepares a check for the total net
payroll proceeds, signed by himself or the Regional Director and countersigned
by COA. The check is deposited with a bank who enters the appropriate amounts
in the individual employee ledgers for withdrawal on demand. Cash payments
are not made by the agencies.
8.        Disbursement for force account work, local training and local
salaries would be made against certificates of expenditure. The agencies
would maintain separate accounts for expenditures made under the project and
these accounts would be available for inspection by supervision missions.
December 18, 1979



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Rainfall Distribution for Different Parts of Iloilo
(mm)
No.
Location    yrs  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  June  July  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec   Total
Dao          16    22    8   14   30   108  341   371   429  387  252  146   60   2,168
S. Joaquin  12    39   18   14   41   194  289   531   453  346  257  164   69   2,415
Tigbauan     20    37   14   26   48   157  268   286   402  259  284  188   88   2,057
Leon         13    59   49   43   65   197  228   470   373  282  286  210   66   2,328
Iloilo       47    44   19   32   41   132  251   309   329  249  228  197  104   1,931
Dingle       14    98   53   78   59   191  180   202   222  259  313  274  130   2,139
Passi        20   154   84   66   55   204  230   250   228  252  309  253  222   2,307
Dumarao      20   171   99   73   65   234  263   243   225  257  267  292  240   2,429
Pilar        36   225  115  129   78   225  258   316   311  318  396  366  284   3,021
Pototan       7    68   51   27   45    76  261   366   263  195  303  232  141   2,028



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Precipitation Means and Probability (%) of Receiving at Least
a Given Amount of Rain (mm) for Two-Week Periodls
(Iloilo City, 1930-1977)
Percent probability of receiving
Mean                 specified amount of rainfall
Period              Precipitation        5.08    15.24    30.4    60.96    101
(mm)
Mar 1-14                     15.5              68        37       15         2        0
Mar 15-28                    14.7              58        33       15         3        0
Mar 29-Apr 11                14.7              50        30       15         4        1
Apr 12-25                    20.3              64        40       22         7        1
Apr 20-May 9                 41.1              76        59       42        23       10
May 10-23                    65.5              92        80       64        40       21
May 24-June 6                87.4              99        96       87        62       32
June 7-20                   113.0              99        98       92        74       47
June 21-July 4              152.9              99        99       97        87       67
July 5-18                   170.4              99        99       96        86       68
July 19-Aug 1               163.6              99        97       93        82       63
Aug 2-15                    166.4              99        96       91        78       61
Aug 16-29                   158.2              99        99       95        84       65
Aug 30-Sept 12              150.6              99        97       93        79       60
Sept 13-26                  128.3              99        97       91        74       52
Sept 27-Oct 10              120.6              99        99       96        80       53
Oct 11-24                   132.1              99        96       89        73       52
Oct 25-Nov 7                 96.5              96        89       78        57       36
Nov 8-21                     96.3              95        87       75        55       35
Nov 22-Dec 5                 91.4              97        90       77        55       33
Dec 6-19                     61.7              88        73       57        35       19
Dec 20-Jan 2                 42.7              87        69       48        24        9
Jan 3-16                     30.2              82        58       36        13        3
Jan 17-30                    19.3              65        41       21         6        1
Jan 31-Feb 13                16.8              66        38       17         3        0
Feb 14-28                    17.0              62        37       18         5        0
Source: Serguena, 1978, Unpublished Thesis.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
PH9ILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAI. DEVELOPMEINT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Rainfed Area - Cropping Pattern - Area. Yield. Production
Incre-ental
Present                        Future without  ldoject                     Future with project                  Increases /a
Area    Area       Yield    Prod.    Area    Area         Yleld    Prod.       Area    Area       Yield    Prod.          Area       Prod.
(%)  ('000 ha)  (Tlha)  ('000 T)   (2)  ('000 ha)  (T/ha)  ('000 T)    (2)  ('000 ha)  (T/ha)  ('000 T)   ('000 ha)  ('000 T)
Rief.ed area:  60,000 ha
First crop
Rice
Direct seeded. dry         (8)    3.4       2.2         7.5     (10)    4.5          2.4      10.8    (25.4)   12.7         2.9       36.8         8.2         26.2
Direct seeded, wet       (30)   13.0        2.5        32.5      (30)   13.5         2.7      36.5    (54.2)   27.1         3.3.      89.4        13.6         52.9
Transplanted              (62)   26.8       2.5        67.0      (60)   27.0         2.7      72.9    (20.4)   10.2         3.3       33.7       -16.6       -39.2
Subtotal                72    43.2        2.5      107.0       75    45.0         2.7    120.2          83    50,0        3.2      159.9         5.0        39.7
Upland crops
Corn, grain              (16)    0.4        1.4        0.6      (19)    0.5          1.5       0.8       (45)    1.8        2.2        4.0          1.3         3.2
Corn, green               (84)    2.1       3.5         7.4      (81)    2.2         3.7       8.1       (55)    2.2        4.5        9.9         0.0          1.8
Subtotal                 4.2      2.5                           4.5      2.7                             6.7      4.0                               1.3
Total first cro0    76.2                                     79.5                                     89.7    52.0
Second crop
Rice
Direct seeded, wet        (22)    5.0       1.9        31.2      (30)    6.3         2.0      12.6       (83)   20.0        2.5       50.0         13.7        37.4
Transplanted              (78)   15.6        2.0       40.7      (70)   14.7         2.1      30.9       (17)    4.0        2.6       10.4       -10.7        -20.5
Subtotal              34.3    20.6        2.0        0.6       35    21.0         2.1       43.5        40    24.0        2.5       60.4         3.0        16.9
Upland cr0ps
Corn, grain               (6)    0.4        1.4         3.2      (6)    0.4          1.5       0.6    (19.2)    2.3         2.2        5.1          1.9         4.5
Corn, gr.e.               (10)    0.9       3.5         0.2      (15)    0.9         3.7       3.3    (10.8)    1.3         4.5        5.9          0.4         2.6
Sorghum                    (2)    0.1       1.0         1.8      (2)    0.1          1.9       0.2    (20.8)    2.5         2.5        6.3         2.4          6.1
M.ng                      (60)    3.6        0.5        0.1      (60)    3.6         0.5       1.8       (29)    3.5        0.7        2.5        -0.1          0.7
Peanut                     (2)    0.1       0.7         5.6       (2)    0.1         0.0       0.1      (4.1)    0.5        1.2        0.6         0.4          0.5
Toato                     (13)    0.8       7.0        0.5      (13)    0.8          7.5       6.0       (12)    1.4        9.0       12.6         0.6          6.6
Green beans                (2)    0.1        5.0                  (2)    0.1         5.0       0.5      (4.1)    0.5        6.0        3.0         0.4          2.5
Subtotal                   10     6.0                             10     6.0                              20    12.0                               6.0
Total second cro-    44.3                                      45                                       60    36.0
Third crop
Upland cr0ps
Sorghum                     -       -         -           -        -       -           -         -       (33)    2.0        2.0        4.0         2.0          4.0
Mung                        -        -         -          -        -        -          -         -       (50)    3.0        0.7        2.1          3.0         2.1
Peanut                      -        -(17)                                                                        1.0       1.2        1.2          1.0         1.2
Total third crop                                                                                          10      6.0                               6.0
Seasonal totals
Rice                      106.3                                  110.0                                     123                                         13        56.6Ab
Upland                     14.2                                   14.5                                      37                                       22.5
Total                  120.5                                  124.5                                      160                                      35.5
/a Future with over future without.
/b  56,600 tons - 1,347,000 cavans.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Water Impounding Dams
Cropping Pattern: Area. Yield and Production (Irrigated Area)
Present                Future without proiect         Future with project
Area           Prod.          Area            Prod.          Area           Prod.   Area  Prod.
Irrigated area                %   ('000  Yield   ('000    %   ('000  Yield   ('000    %   ('000  Yield   (O000  ('000  ('000
(1,800 ha)                Area    ha)  (t/ha)    t)   Area    ha)  (t/ha)    t)   Area    ha)  (t/ha)    t)             ha)    t)
First Crop
Rice
Direct seeded, dry        (6)  0.10   2.0    0.20        (8)  0.10   2.2    0.22    (25)  0.40   3.2    1.28                 1.06
Direct seeded, wet       (30)  0.40   2.2    0.88    (30)  0.40   2.5    1.00    (55)  0.90   3.8    3.40                    2.40
Transplanted             (64)  0.80   2.2    1.76    (62)  0.80   2.5    2.00    t2C)  0.30   3.8    1.14                   -0.86
Subtotal               72   1.30            2.84     72   1.30            3.22      89   1.60            5.82    0.3    2.60
Upland Crops
Corn, grain             (100)  0.07   1.2              (100)  0.07   1.4    0.10   (100)  0.10   2.5    0.25                 0.15
Subtotal                4   0.07                      4   0.07            0.10       6   0.10            0.25    0.03   0.15
Total First Crop       76                            76                             95                            0.33
Second Crop
Rice
Direct seeded, wet       (20)  0.10   1.9    0.19    (25)  0.16   2.0    0.32          80   1.10   1.0    3.30               2.98
Transplanted             (80)  0.50   2.0    1.00    (75)  0.47   2.1    0.99          20   0.30   3.0    0.90              -0.09
Subtotal               33   0.60           1.19      35   0.63            1.31      80   1.40            4.20    0.77   2.89
Upland Crops
Sorghum                  (10)  0.01   1.5               (10)  0.01   1.7    0.20    (70)  0.19   2.8    0.53                0.33
Mung                     (90)  0.08   0.5               (90)  0.10   0.5    0.05    (30)  0.08   0.7    0-06                 0.01
Subtotal                5   0.09                      6   0.11                      15   0.27                     0.16
Total Second Crc_    38                              41                             95                            0.93
Third Crop
Upland Crops
Sorghum /a                 -      -      -        -       -      -      -        -    (60)  0.22   2.5    0.55              0.55
Peanuts                    -       -     -        -       -       -     -        -    (40)  0.14   1.5    0.21               0.21
Total Third Croll       -      -      -        -      -       -               -     20   0.36                     0.36
Seasonal Totals (year)
Rice                       105                            107                            169                                   5.49
Upland                       9                             10                             41                               (130,660
cavans)
Total                 114                           117                            210
/a Possible for 85% of this crop to be ratooned from second crop.



80 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Incremental Cropped Area
(ha)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8
onwards
Palay             490   1,930    4,410   6,730   8,230   8,920   8,990   9,070
Corn, grain       250      770    1,620   2,400   2,890   3,130   3,220   3,230
Corn, green        30       90      190      290      340     380      400      400
Sorghum           310      980    2,040   3,050   3,640   4,010   4,780   4,800
Mung              230      700    1,000   2,150   2,570   2,800   2,890   2,880
Peanuts           110      350      730   1,100   1,340   1,480   1,530   1,540
Tomatoes           50      140      300      440      530     580      600      600
Green beans        30      100      200      300      360     390      400      400
Total        1,500   5,060   10,490  16,460  19,900  21,690  22,810  22,920
Of which:
Rainfed       1,500   4,910   10,110  15,790  18,810  20,330  21,300  21,300
Irrigated         -      150      380      670   1,090   1,360   1,510   1,620
July 30, 1979



81
ANNELI 
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8
onwards
Volume (tons)
Palay              2,098    9,635  24,832  42,317    54,510   59,956   61,930   62,210
Corn, grain          434    1,451   3,248   5,292        6,714    7,445    7,820    7,820
Corn, green          175       718   1,785   3,020       3,825    4,157    4,280    4,280
Sorghum              606    1,989   4,442   7,248        9,316   10,435   11,060   11,140
Mung                  166      519   1,162   1,878       2,366    2,615    2,760    2,760
Peanuts              102       348      764   1,246      1,612    1,800    1,920    1,930
Tomatoes             360    1,230   2,770   4,530        5,730    6,310    6,600    6,600
Green beans          150       480   1,050   1,700       2,150    21,380    2,500    2,500
Value (P'000) /b
Palay              2,727   12,526  32,282  55,012    70,863   77,943   80,509   80,873
Corn, grain          477    1,596   3,573   5,821        7,385    8.,190    8,602    8,602
Corn, green          126       517   1,285   2,174       2,754    2,993    3,082    3,082
Sorghum              606    1,989   4,442   7,248        9,316   10.,435   11,060   11,140
Mung                 789    2,465   5,520   8,921    11,239   12.,421   13,111   13,111
Peanuts              367    1,253   2,750   4,486        5,803    6,480    6,912    6,948
Tomatoes             360    1,230   2,770   4,530        5,730    6,310    6,600    6,600
Green beans          218       696   1,523   2,465       3,118    3,451    3,625    3,625
Total Value    5,670   22,272  54,145  90,657   116,208  128 ,223  133,501  133,981
Of which:
Rainfed          5,670   21,589  52,215  87,237   110,568  120,615  124,789  124,789
Irrigated            -       683   1,930   3,420       5,640    7,608    8,712    9,192
/a  Includes rainfed and irrigated production.
/b  Valued at: farm-gate prices.
July 30, 1979



82
ANNEX 3
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Production of Livestock and Livestock Products
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8
Volume
Work animals (no.)          -          -       60      117     304      384      480     480
Fattened cattle (no.)       -        936   1,640   3,340   5,280   6,600   6,600   6,600
Fattened hogs (no.)         -      1,240   1,880   3,140   7,200   9,000   9,000   9,000
Weanlings (no.)             -      1,736   3,710  5,278   10,024  15,120  16,800  16,800
Culled sows (no.)           -          -        -       -      248       34      190     488
Finished goats (no.)        -      3,720   7,020  14,130  17,280  21,600  21,600  21,600
Milk ('000 1)               3        117      206     430      579      714      716     704
Value (P'000) /a
Work animals                -          -       90      176     456      576      720     720
Fattened cattle             -      1,983   3,475   7,077  11,188  13,985  13,985  13,985
Fattened hogs               -        843   1,278   2,135   4,896   6,120   6,120   6,120
Weanlings                   -        347      742   1,056   2,005   3,024   3,360   3,360
Culled sows                 -          -        -       -      347       48      266     683
Finished goats              -        335      632   1,272   1,555   1,944   1,944   1,944
Milk                        8        305      538   1,125   1,509   1,862   1,867   1,837
Total                    8     3,813   6,755  12,841  21,956  27,559  28,262  28,649
/a  Valued at farm-gate prices.
July 30, 1979



ANNEX 3
- 83-                                                         Table 8
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements and Supply in Crop Production
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr'   May   Jun          Jul   Aug  -.ep        Oct    Nov    Dec   Total
Without Project /a
Rainfed                  ('000 md)         84      23       -      _    493  1,448       570  1,453  .1,426    220    454    391   6,562
Irrigated                ('000 md)          2       1      -       -      15      42      18      43      42       5     12      10      190
Total                 ('000 md)        86      24       -       -    508  1,490       588  1,496  1,468    225    466    401   2,75S
- Per hectare /b  (md)              1.4    0.4        -       _    8.2   24.1       9.5   24.7   23.8    3.6    7.5    6.5   inq.7
- Per farm Ic       (md)            2.5    0.7        -      -   14.8   43.3    17.1   43.5   42.8    6.5   13.5   11.6   196.6
With ProJect Id
Rainfed   - manual       ('000 md)        206      62     51      15    577    771       394    961  1,320    312    458    444   5,0np
- mechanized ('000 md)          53     11      22       3      85    386      213    387    253    147    169         85   1,812
Irrigated - manual       ('000 md)          6      2       3       1      13     20       13      31      37    1J       17      10      177
- mechanized ('000 md)           2       1      2       -       4     16       13      23      16     15      14       2      ItP
Total                 ('000 md)       267      76      78      19    679  1,193       633  1.402  1L625    48n    658    550   7,605
- Per hectare /b  (md)              4.3    1.2    1.3    0.3   11.0   19.3    10.2   22.7   26.3    7.9   10.6    8.0   124.0
Per farm /c      (md)             7.7    2.2    2.3    0.5   19.8   34.7    18.4   40.9   47.3   14.2   10.1   16.0   223.1
Incremental
Rainfed                  ('000 md)        175      50     73      18    169   (291)       37   (105)   147    239    173    138          758
Irrigated                ('000 md)          6       2      5       1       2      (6)      8      11      11      25     19      11       95
Total                 ('000 md)       101      52      78      19    171   (297)       45    (94)   158    264    192    149         P53
- Per hectare /b  (md)              2.9    0.8    1.3    0.3    2.8   (4.8)    0.7   (1.5)   2.6    4.3    3.1    2.4    14.9
- Per farm /c      (rd)             5.2    1.4    2.3    0.5    5.0   (8.6)    1.3   (2-7)   4.7    7.7    5.6    4.3    26.7
Farm family labor
supply /e                ('000 md)    1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373   1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373  1,373  16,476
Labor deficit to be met
through hired labor
- assuming no
mechanization          ('000 md)          _      _       _       _       _    236        -    652  1,390        -       -       -   2,27P
- with mechanization
as aasumed in
project evaluation   ('000 md)               -       -           -       -      -        -      29    252       -       -       -     281
/a  Assuming no substantial, on-farm mechanization; represents projects, future-without-project situation.
/b  Assuming an area of 60,000 ha rainfed plus 1,800 ha irrigated; i.e., 61,800 ha total land covered by the project.
/c  Based on an average farm size of 1.8 ha.
E Assuming partially mechanized farming operations on 50% of the land under the project.
/e e Assuming an average monthly labor supply per farm family of 40 man-days.
Note: md - man-days.
December 14, 1979



- 84-                            ANNEX 3
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Financial Input Prices, January 1980
Input                             Unit                          Price
Seeds
Rice                           P/kg                           2.15
Corn                           P/kg                           2.50
Sorghum                       P/kg                           2.00
Mungo                          P/kg                           7.00
Peanuts                       P/kg                            6.50
Green corn                     P/kg                           5.00
Tomatoes                       P/gram                         0.50
Green beans                    P/kg                           9.00
Fertilizers
Urea                           P/bag                        89.00
21-0-0                        P/bag                         65.00
16-20-0                       P/bag                         84.00
14-14-14                      P/bag                         78.50
N                           P/kg                            4.20
P                           P/kg                           4.00
k                           P/kg                           2.10
Bags (used twice)                P/piece                        3.50
Labor
Farm                          P/day                         11.00
General                        P/day                         12.00
Animal                         P/day                         10.00
Swine Feed
Prestarter                    P/kg                           3.78
Grow starter                   P/kg                           1.70
Breeder                        P/kg                           1.60
Fattener                       P/kg                           1.60
Animals
Swine male weanling           P/head                       200.00
Swine female weanling         P/head                       250.00
Feeder cattle (2 year)         P/head                    1,000.00
Heifers (breeding)             P/head                     1,200.00
Goat, doe                      P/head                        80.00
Goat, breeding doe             P/head                       120.00
Goat, buck                     P/head                       120.00
Goat, breeding buck            P/head                       150.00



- 85 -                                                 ANNEX 4
Table I
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Derivation of Economic (Import Parity) Prices, as of January 19810
Corn                 Sorghum                  Beef                  Milk
Financial Economic Financial Economic Financ7ial Economic Financial Economic
World market price (US$/ton)          139          139        125         125      1,107       1,107        595         595
-        -------------------------------- (Pesos/ton) ----------------------------------
F.o.b. purchase price               1,015       1,237        913        1,113      8,081       9,1352     4,344       5,296
Ocean freight                          153         175        150         169      1,727       2,106        671         818
Marine insurance                        10          12         10          11         82         100         45          55
Bank charges, interest
commissions                          46          52         42           48        280         341        160         195
Port charges /a                        90           98         90          98        180         205        160         178
Port handling & storage ;b             59           63         59          63        240         260        220         240
Ex-warehouse landed cost        1,373       1,637      1,264       1,502    10,590       12.1364     5.600       6,782
Less marketing
Transport, plant to
terminal warehouse /c             102         106        102         106        400         430        540          588
Processing                            -           -          -            -     1,075        1,310      2,141       2,520
Subtotal marketing                102         106        102         106      1,475       1,740      2,681       3,108
Plus value of by-products               -            -          -           -      1,428       1,741          -           -
Cost ex-plant, inland                 -           -          -            -    10,543       12.865      2.919       3,674
Cost equivalent of farm
product                           1,271       1,531      1,162       1,396      6,115        7,462      2,774       3,490
Less procurement from
farm /d                            92          95         92          95        135          145        180         195
Import parity price at
farm-gate /e                  1,179       1,436      1,070       1.301      5,980       72317      2.594       3,295
/a  Includes integrated services, arrestre, port operation, spillage, shrinkage and depreciation.
/b Includes warehouse handling, stock insurance, storage fee, spillage, shrinkage and depreciation.
/c  Includes handling, trucking, wharfage, marine freight and insurance, storage, spillage, shrinkage and overhead.
/d Includes bank charges, handling, field-to-market transport, storage, container depreciation, stock insurance,
buying overhead, spillage and shrinkage.
/e For beef expressed per ton of liveweight.



PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Derivation of Economic (Self-sufficiency) Prices, as of January 1980
Mungo              . Peanuts                  Pork                 Goat meat
Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic
World market price (US$/ton)                  676         676        566         566      1,433      1,433       1,039       1,039
Import                                   --------------------------------- (Pesos/ton) -----------------------------------
F.o.b. purchase price                    4,935       6,016      4,132        5,037    10,461      12,754       7,585       9.247
Plus import charges                       1,481       1,805      1,240       1,511      3,138      3,826       1,966       2.278
Equals:  c.i.f. price                    6,416        7,821     5,372        6,548    13,599    16,580         9,551      11,525
Less marketing and processing               910         975        671         716      2,154      2,535       2,366       2,737                    1
Equals:  product equivalent price        5,506       6,846      4,701        5,832    11,445    14,045         7,185       8,788
Converted into equivalent import
parity farm-gate price                 5,506       6,846      4,701       5,832      8,927    10,955         3,233       3,954
Export
Selling price, Philippine port           4,935       6,016      4,132       5,037    10,461      12,754        7,585       9,247
Less marketing and processing               700         788        516         585      2,092      2,419       2,275       2,639
Equals:  product equivalent price        4,235       5,228      3,616       4,452       8,369    10,335        5,310       6,608
Converted into equivalent export
parity farm-gate price                 4,235       5,228      3,616       4 452      6,529      8,061        2,390       2.973
Average of import and export parity
prices                                   4,871        6,037     2,351        5,142      7,728      9,508       2,812       3 464
o z
Po 



PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project Costs and Benefits
(P million)
Incremental Costs                                                             Incremental Benefits
Manage-
Agric.        ment,                    Rainfed      Irrigated
production    trials,   Livestock    crop pro-   crop pro-    Water                                              Rainfed    Irrigated
Year      services    training   production   duction           duction   impounding  Marketing   Roads    Total            crops         crops    Livestock  Total
1         6.5           5.5          3.9         10.1           0.0         4.2           8.9      9.5       48.6          7.1          0.0           0.0       7.1
2         4.6           6.3           5.9        20.4           0.4          5.0          0.8     19.1       62.5         27.0          0.9           4.4      32.3
3         4.8            3.0         11.5         39.7          1.1          5.9          2.9     19.1       88.0         65.3           2.5          7.9      75.7
4         3.9            2.3        18.2         60.6           2.0          7.4          5.1     19.1      118.6        109.0           4.4         14.9    128.3
5         4.0            2.1        22.4          74.3          3.4          8.6          6.0      19.1     139.9        138.2           7.2         25.3    170.7
6          3.6           0.7        21.1         80.6           4.4          1.2          2.2      6.0      119.8        150.8           9.8         32.0    192.6
7          3.6           0.7        21.6         83.7           5.1          1.2          2.2      6.0      124.1        156.0          11.2         33.3    200.2
8          3.6           0.7        21.3         83.7           5.4          1.2          2.2      6.0      124.1        156.0          11.8         33.5    201.3
9-25         3.6           0.7         22.0         83.7          5.4          1.2          2.2       6.0     124.8         156.0         11.8         34.2    202.0
Present
values
DR - 14Z    29.3           16.6        113.0        412.3         22.0         24.5         24.1      77.8      719.5        741.6         48.2        146.7    936.5
Switching values, DR - 14%
Aggregate (%)   -              -            -            -            -            -         -         -         30            -            -            -       -23
Component (%) 742          1,311          192           53          987          886       901       279          -          -29         -451         -148         -
Net present value as percent of present value of costs: 30.2%.
Economic rate of return:  Basic                                 37%
Costs up 20%                        21%
Benefits down 20%                   17%
Costs up 10%, benefits down. 10%  19%
Benefits lagged one year            20%
July 30, 1979



ANNEX a
- 88 -                                                  Table 4
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Incremental Costs and Benefits - Water Impounding
Incremental costs                                 Incremental benefits
Maintenance &   Training &    Current    Production                         Upland
Capital /a  replacement A   overhead /c  production  foregone /d   Total   Rice   crops le   Total
-------------------------------------------    (p   0oo)    ------------------------------------------
Year
1                    4,159              -            528             -           20       4,707        -         -        -
2                    4,800             166            399           382           40      5,787      657       221      878
3                    5,544            358             134        1,008            60      7,104   1,888        582    2,470
4                    6,844            580             118         1,881           80      9,503   3,333    1,050    4,383
5                    7,767            854             116        3,255           102     12,094   5,599    1,630    7,229
6                         -         1,165               -        4,322           102      5,589   7,570    2,180    9,750
7                        -          1,165              -         5,007          102       6,274   8,588    2,578   11,166
8-30                        -          1,165              -        5,317           102      6,584   9,047    2,734   11,781
Present values,
DR - 14%            19,170          5,315             991       22,181           553     48,210  38,099   11,476   49,575
Switching values,  ------------------------------------------- (Percent) --------------------------------------------
DR - 14%
Aggregate              -              -                            - -                    2.8        -         -     -2.8
Component            7.1           25.7          137.8           6.2        246.7           -    -3.6    -11.9          -
Net present value as percent of present value of costs:  2.8%
Econcmic rate of return:  Basic                                    15%
Costs up 20%                            9%
Benefits down 20%                       7%
Costs up 10%, benefits down 10%        8%
Benefits lagged one year               11%
/a  Includes cost of dams and structures plus two-thirds of cost of consultancy services.
lb  Assuming complete replacement on average once in 25 years.
/c  Includes 10% of total project training overhead costs, 50% of cost of Bureau of Soils training program, and 10%
of cost of project management support excluding consultancy services.
/d  Represents net economic production value from 1.5 ha of good farmland per dam.
/e  Includes corn (grain), sorghum, mung beans and peanuts.
July 30, 1979



- 89 -
-      ANFEX 4
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTtRAL DEVFLOPMENT (ILOILO) PPOJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4 -      Year 5
Key activities             1  2  3  4 1 12  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3 4        1  2  3  4
I            I             I            I     
Extension Services
Staffing, supply of
equipment & operation  I --------------------1------------1------------1
Livestock Program
Facilities                     --------
Vehicles, breeding stock                ------------ -------
Personnel & equipment-   I              I            I 
operationI   --------------------1------------1------------1
Production of Seeds                I                   I             I
Seasonal   credit                       - _---------------- ----_---- -------_- --------
Staffing & supply of      I            I             I             I            I
equipnent                    --------1------------1------------1------------1
Facilities                               ---------
Adaptive Trials             I             I            I
Facilities & vehicles    I               I                         I            I
Staffing & operations    I        ------------------1 ------------1------------
Training Program                   I                   I             I            I
Facilities & vehicles                   ------------                
Consultancies                   --------------------1-------
Training courses                    ---     -------------------------------------
Pilot Village Development  |
Prograr                    I
Facilities, vehicles,
materials                            I                  --------------------
Operation                               - --------- ------------ ------------
On-farm Production          I                          I             I            I
Rainfed crops                        -----1    ------------1 ------------1------------
Irrigation crops          I            I --------------------!------------1
Livestock                 I                                       ------------1------------1------------1
Marketing Infrastructure
Export terminal                     - ------------ 
Farm & seed storage,
nill expansion          I-I--1                            ------------1------------
Driers, new nills         |             I            I----------        ------------
Water Impounding
Construction of dams &   I                                         |
related systems         I       ----1       ------------1 ------------1------------
Consultancy services      I--------------------1------------1------------1
1Maintenance equipnent    I             ------------                
Ilutrition                  I             I            I                          I
Facilities & equipment                 1------------I------------ 
Training                              -------------1---------- 
Operation                 I            ------------ -------------1------------1--------
Project Preparation                                    I
Bureau of Soils                 --------------------1------------
Mindanao rainfed project                ---------
Project Management
Vehicles & equipment           --------
Staffing of secretariat  |
& management unit         -----------
Operation, including      I             I            I                          |
consultancies                --------I------------------------------------------------
December 14, 1979



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Documents in Project File
Wo rking
Paper No.
1. Crop and Livestock Production
2. Crop Budgets and Farm Models
3. Water Impounding Dams
4. Marketing, Storage and Processing
5. Training Component
6. Nutrition Component



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Consultants' Costs
1.        Detailed engineering consultants' costs for the water impounding
dams are estimated at US$360,000. The contract would provide 60 man-months
of consultants' services at an average man-month cost (including salary,
costs, fees, travel and subsistence) of US$6,000. An additional 36 man-months
of consultants' services would be provided to the Bureau of Soils to streng-
then its planning and project preparation capability. he latter would cost
US$216,000, or US$6,000 per man-month.
2.        The Project Manager would engage 17 man-months of training consul-
tants' services, costing US$80,000. The average man-month cost (based on
the individuals' fees, travel and local allowances) would be US$4,700.
3.        Technical assistance would be provided to implement the Pilot
Village Development Program.  The total cost, including salaries, allowances
and miscelLaneous expenditures related to the social baseline study, is
expected to be US$190,000. The contract would provide about 42 man-months
of consultants' services, averaging US$3,000 per man-month.
4.        The Ministry of Health would employ about 14 and 12 man-months,
respectively, of local and expatriate consultants' services, costing a total
of US$125,000. The average cost per man-month would be about US$4,000 for
local consultants and US$5,800 for expatriate personnel.
5.        Specialists in various fields, and various institutions such as
universities, would assist the Project Manager as and when needed. Particular
requirements are expected to arise with respect to post-harvest operations and
project monitoring and evaluation. The project provides US$290,000 for this
purpose. At an average rate of about US$4,000 per man-month some 72 man-
months of consultants' services could be used.
6.        The total cost of consultants' services, excluding contingencies,
is estimated at US$1.26 million (P 9.36 million).






PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PIROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Minister of Agric-lture
Interagency Project Coa-inating Co-ottiee
So -ic 13-*o IMOA)a
Prowlncijtl~ ~ ~~Co reoinpmet incl  _
Actmg asAdviror Body                KaSta angeemen Com-t-e
I
Budget/Acc-unt
Procurenrent
Training
Agriculture                                      Marketing                                         Nitrition
Agricultural Coordinttor
Prooncial MOA Bureatu Needs                       Mar__ding Cord-Int                                  Copoet Ma..g
I , _ _ _ _ j   Banks 
ILOILOSeedGnovers             M__         _    _        _    _    __      _>       _ _ _           Fayors      _      _ _-
<X fi e                               +AC                           Traders
C~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AC 0 MA
1         4L4S~~~Ofiit   |Demonstrationsl                                                             
Oif~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoOnlRD
i  E            -S  3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BW                                               TBcOr RIC                       E
FARMERS ASSOCIATIONS/SAMAHANG NAYONS/COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
|                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pro1ect Participants
'The Doernor of liol Pr-n-ne end the Director af the Bureeu of Agricultural ere-sion. Region VI, would seine
as interis co-cheirmen p-nding the app.,ormen. ot the Regional Diregr.r IMOA)                                                                   WotId Book - 20657






IBRD 14461
*. t     PHILIPPINES                                                 \                                                                                  t'.                                           AUGUST1979
SOUFtH   C< r'aXar
CHINVA
SEA               PACIfIC
SEA                ~~~~OCEAN                                                                 2                                                                               1V
11-30E1-0
C~/AIA  g   g  X  ,4:, CA  K L A  N                       0       - -<                                                                        fPy, 
0                                   AKLANt  P    A                 N      A   Y                   I    S    L    A                   N        D              f
NEC,N   @ 4                                      . /                                  C A P I Z                                                                     A A
tA4LAYSI  ~~~-SULU .
5 u/u                                                     n
So~~,, 3b5Cirqe
A  N  TI       U  E                     DX        t        ,t _I 5 9                                 *<t,fPHILIPPlINES
11-00              X                                              R; S   ~E                        ~69eA-                                 b                                    PROVINCE OF ILOtLO                               700
Rainfed Agricultural Development Project
JAAJ  liTRExisting national roads
L.f b-1, WOWnus                         - E.isting rpovrciotroads
-_____  Provincial roads-new, upgrading or Irprovement
AA aol      Moa- N----0-0- Barangaoy roods - new, uogradinsg or impronemsent
Cobatoa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~A   Water imrpounding dans sites
a,                                                                                                                     Western Visaseperierenrt station
El  Existing4 NGA Ioc lity
/   Proposed NGA frcitities
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Grain ex port terninoal
Lj Existing BPi / IP~RI ovtreacl, station
eon                                                                                         EJ a  ~ <m8itU  Proposed BPI / IRRI outreacl, station
'~Livestork mnarkret oxisting or vrnder conistruction
Area m/r&etiTg coo-eratives
K                                                                                                                           T  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed trainting center
0   /Si\  > ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~  0 rX   0  />Xt ,pJ&ordan                                                                      :         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iifdnd
gb., h^Existira isg igatton areas
I  .}S)    a/)  +y/                      D               W    t  F)           {                 ) /RE   J                                 ft      River
B.e-i,                                    _~~~~~~~~~~-.--Provincial boundaries
San Joagonjrseqvin                                                                                                           R 0 t  J r-<M F    0 0TILOMETTRS 0  a0  20            30
MILES 0                     S l         t5          20
Pconay        Gulf- h Oo., a)`                                                                                                                .050   ~0ai
12270R                                                                        120000



