Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2726-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
February 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(July 1979)
US$1 = Pesos (P) 7.4
p 1   =  US$0.1351
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BAEx     -  Bureau of Agricu-ltural Extension
BPI      -  Bureau of Plant Industry
FSDC     -  Farm Systems Development Corporation
IRRI     -  International Rice Research Institute
MOA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
NGA      -  National Grains Authority
NIA      -  National Irrigation Authority
NFAC     -  National Food and Agriculture Council
PCARR    -  Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources and Research
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
CROP YEAR
July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                    $12.0 million
Terms:                    The loan would be for a term of 20 years including
5 years of grace period, with interest at 8.25%.
Project
Description:            The primary objective of the proposed project is to
extend a new multiple cropping technology to lowland
areas of Iloilo province which have satisfactory
rainfall but no access to major irrigation systems.
The project would also support and reinforce other
ongoing investments in Iloilo under the national pro-
grams to increase their impact on agricultural pro-
ductivity, and assist in preparations for the exten-
sion of multiple cropping technology to other
provinces. It provides for increasing agricultural
production, improving marketing and extension,
training support staff and community members and
strengthening existing institutions responsible for
project implementation. The project would also
provide for the construction of a grains storage and
shipment facility and water impounding facilities,
programs for improving nutrition through the control
of anemia and diarrhea, and consultant services for
the preparation of future similar projects in
Mindanao.
Approximately 40,000 farm families and 5,000 landless
laborers' families, or a total of about 270,000
people, would benefit directly from increased
production and employment resulting from the project.
Risks related to drought damage to crops and
increased labor and capital requirements for farmers
would be minimized by promoting less risky cropping
patterns and husbandry techniques, and by encouraging
appropriate financing methods such as the Integrated
Agricultural Financing Scheme. Risks related to the
water impounding schemes and the relative
inexperience of farmers with their construction and
operation would be reduced by the small size and cost
of the proposed schemes and the close coordination
planned between the experienced irrigation and
agricultural agencies in the country.
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                  Local   ForeiRn   Total
----- ($ million) -----
Agricultural production
services                      1.21     0.40      1.61
Adaptive trials and
research                      0.82     0.38      1.20
Water impounding                1.88     2.33      4.21
Grains shipment facility        0.78     1.72      2.50
Training                        1.23     0.61      1.84
Nutrition                       0.98     0.40      1.38
Project preparation             0.51     0.68      1.19
Project management              0.81     0.31      1.12
Subtotal                   8.22     6.83    15.05
Physical contingencies          1.10     0.90      2.00
Price contingencies             2.37     1.93      4.30
Total project cost        11.69     9.66    21.35
Less customs duties and taxes  1.84         -      1.84
Total net project cost    9.85      9.66    19.51
Financing                            Foreign      Local       Total
Plan:                              ------- ($ million) ---------
Beneficiaries        -            0.38       0.38
Government           -            8.97       8.97
IBRD                 9.66         2.34      12.00
Total              9.66        11.69      21.35
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY       1981    1982    1983   1984    1985    1986
---------------- ($ million) -----------…--
Annual       0.86    1.78    2.45   3.20    1.94    1.77
Cumulative   0.86    2.64    5.09   8.29   10.23   12.00
Rate of Return:           The economic rate of return for the project is 37%.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 2695-PH dated February 20, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMlIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANF FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FiR A RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomnmendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $12 million
to help finance a Rainfed Agricultural Development (Iloilo) Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25 per annum.
PART I - THE ECONCMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines:  Country Economic Ilemorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines -
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under Sec 1179-822 dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. Wnile overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced.  The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management.  Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the lIedium-Scale Irrigation Project, distributed
under R80-30 and scheduled for Board presentation on March 13, 1980.



- 2 -
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



-3-
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available.  Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin
amortization payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating
rice and corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1972 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates. Purther reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries. A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued efforts in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



-6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The improve-
ment in 1979 of the terms of trade is expected to be reversed in 1980. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982.  The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D. C. in December 1979.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliz-
ation (paras. 15-16). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms
of trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official



- 7 -
assistance have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer
can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of projects, or
through nonproject lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /_
23.       As of January 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 63 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,970.9
million and six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC
investments totalled $93.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt
ser-rice is about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%,
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of January 31, 1980, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic
infrastructure, which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank
Group lending. In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the
irrigation system to increase food production and to credit programs to
support foodgrain production and processing and livestock, fisheries and
tree farming production. Support has also been provided for integrated
rural development projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also
provided large amounts of assistance in developing power and transportation
to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure has been needed to
compensate for many years of past neglect due to low levels of public
expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on
strengthening the capacity of public and private development finance
institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small
and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estimates.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
/1  This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (R80-30)
which is scheduled for Board presentation on March 13, 1980.



-8-
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives.  Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides
for several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (December 1978)
and for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas, where there is
substantial rural poverty, through this currently proposed loan. Increased
assistance will also be provided for integrated rural development projects
which will support the Government's objectives of redressing regional
imbalances in income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given
to industry with considerable attention given to policy reform and to
expanding the development of labor-intensive, small and medium industries
outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.  A program loan to support major
adjustments in industrial and trade policies is currently being appraised.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas.  While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed
to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank lending for
these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of the
power generation program.
27.       This is the fourth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. A loan for a sewerage project is scheduled to be presented
with this project and one for urban development next week; loans for live-
stock/fisheries credit, watershed management, rural roads and ports projects
have been appraised and are expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
28.       Agriculture is the predominant sector of the Philippine econony,
accounting for about 30% of GDP, slightly more than 50% of total employment,
and 55-60% of the foreign exchange earnings. Nearly three quarters of the
land under cultivation is devoted to grains production, notably rice and
corn; other principal crops are sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapple and tobacco.
After recovering from highly adverse weather during 1972-73, the sector grew
remarkably well at about 5% p.a. between 1974-78, and significant growth is
also expected in 1979. Structurally, Philippine agriculture is overwhelmingly
small-scale, with the national average landholding about 3.6 ha.  Most of the
nonmarginal development and improvement of farm incomes critically depend,
therefore, on increased productivity of the lands already under cultivation.
Because of the small farm size, animal production consists predominantly of
backyard enterprises.



- 9
Government Objectives and Strategy
29.       The Government has set out its development strategy in the Five-Year
Philippine Development Plan for the period 1978-82. The agricultural strategy
emphasizes food production, agricultural diversification, reforestation and
stronger linkages between agriculture and industry. Key components of the
development strategy are: agrarian reform and rural infrastructure develop-
ment (described in Part I); supervised credit programs aimed at food and
feedgrain self-sufficiency; and malnutrition prevention programs. A major
focus of development is on improving the conditions of smallholders, with
growing emphasis on those in rainfed areas.  In order to promote the acceler-
ated development of previously neglected or backward rural areas and to reduce
the movement of people from the countryside to the towns, the Government
embarked on a program of Integrated Area Development in the early 1970s. Key
components of Integrated Area Development projects have been the provision
of irrigation, the promotion of agricultural extension and credit, the
improvement of transport and marketing infrastructure, and support to
alleviate nutritional deficiencies.
30.       Irrigation improvement has been emphasized for a number of years,
although very small irrigation schemes have received only minor support
to date. Since large-scale irrigation development is becoming increasingly
expensive, and since the majority of the rural poor live in areas without
irrigation potential, more emphasis is being given to development of rainfed
areas. Multiple cropping techniques suitable for rainfed lowland areas have
been successfully tested and would be promoted under this project.
Technology for Rainfed Agriculture
31.       Of the estimated 11 million ha of cultivated land in the
Philippines, approximately 1.2 million ha, or 10.9%, was irrigated in 1978,
representing about 47% of the estimated 2.6 million ha of land with irriga-
tion potential. A large proportion of the 8.2 million ha of cultivated land
without irrigation potential is in upland areas where agricultural
productivity is relatively low. Productivity in the rainfed lowlands is
generally higher than in upland areas, but varies considerably from region
to region depending on the amount and distribution of rainfall.
32.       Traditionally, rainfed areas under rice are cultivated once a
year during the peak rainy months and are idle during the rest of the year.
In an effort to intensify land use by increasing the number of crops grown
per year, the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), in cooperation
with research institutions in the Philippines, has been testing cropping
patterns that would allow rice farmers in some rainfed areas to harvest up to
three crops per year. Results from these experiments can be divided into
three main areas, namely: (a) development of new varieties suitable for
multiple cropping; (b) modification of the rice culture to use water more
efficiently; and (c) modification of upland crops culture to make it
suitable for the rice paddy.



- 10 -
33.       The multiple cropping research in Iloilo province has been
conducted under the auspices of the Kabsaka project./J To hasten the
adoption of more intensive crop production technology, Kabsaka provides
participating farmers with: (i) technical support through a qualified
agricultural technician; (ii) production credit for rice and other annual
crops; and (iii) an assured market for all farm products. Kabsaka was
started by the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) in 1974 in Santa
Barbara, Iloilo province, as an applied cropping system research effort
conducted jointly with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), the
Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources and Research (PCARR) and the
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI). By 1978, the majority of the farmers in the
project site were participating in the program. In 1979, the program was
extended to two other areas in the province. The most successful pattern
has been an early rice crop that is dry seeded just before the first monsoon
rain in late April or early May, followed by wet seeded rice in early
September and then a legume in early January. The proposed project
basically constitutes an enlargement of the scope of the Kabsaka project to
cover all rainfed lowland areas in Iloilo province.
Irrigation
34.       The development of irrigation has been an important part of Govern-
ment's strategy to increase the country's food crop production; since 1960
the irrigated area increased by an average annual rate of about 2.4%. About
three-quarters of the total irrigated area of 1.2 million ha is currently
located in Luzon, while the remainder is equally divided between the Visayas
and Mindanao regions. Recently, the Bureau of Soils of the Ministry of
Agriculture, partly in its efforts to design a national program for reducing
soil erosion, has proposed the construction of some 600 small water impounding
schemes. Such schemes, hitherto constructed primarily by private interests
without government support, are attractive because of their multipurpose
nature and suitability for realizing pockets of development potential in basi-
cally rainfed areas which could not be reached by the more traditional
irrigation systems. The proposed project would support water impounding
schemes located in Iloilo province.
Extension and Credit
35.       About 15 government ministries and agencies provide varying forms
of rural extension. The Ministry of Agriculture, however, is primarily res-
ponsible for the dissemination of technical information in the fields of crop
and livestock production, home management, nutrition and rural youth develop-
ment.  Within the Ministry of Agriculture there are about 8,600 technical
staff, a large proportion of whom have university degrees. A number of
factors combined in the past to reduce the effectiveness of the extension
service, and a major effort has been initiated by the Ministry of
Agriculture, with Bank support (National Extension Project, Loan 1626-PH),
/1 Kabsaka, short for Kabusugan sa Kaumahan, means "bounty on the farm".



- 11 -
to strengthen it. In particular, this includes: (a) the establishment of a
more unified extension service and closer coordination between research and
extension; (b) provision of vehicles, and communication, demonstration and
training equipment to improve the delivery capacity of the extension service;
and (c) implementation of a staffing and training program. This effort will
complement activities included in the proposed project.
36.       The Government launched major supervised credit programs in 1973,
notably Masagana 99 for rice and Masaganang Maisan for corn, to counteract a
decline in foodgrain production. The programs succeeded initially in reaching
a large number of small-scale farmers as well as in boosting total production.
However, they have since experienced a sharply declining trend with regard to
the number of borrowers and loans granted. Poor loan repayment, resulting in
part from crop losses caused by natural calamities, and initial overextension
of the capacities of both borrowers and lenders have been the major causes of
this decline. Nonetheless, continued increases in production indicate that
the technical packages which were promoted under the programs continue to be
under active use despite the contraction of formal credit.
37.       Now that rice production is no longer a critical issue, government
credit policy is shifting more to selective lending, according to the debt
repayment capacity of the potential borrowers, coupled with improved technical
and farm management support to ensure better use of the resources available to
the farmers. Among the specific measures initiated by the Government to
improve agricultural lending are: (a) the promotion of the Integrated Agri-
cultural Financing Scheme, which provides financing for a whole year rather
than for a single crop season; and (b) efforts to re-qualify rural banks with
high arrears for rediscounting seasonal crop loans with the Central Bank and
to reschedule loans which are in default owing to factors beyond the control
of borrowers. No shortage of funds for crop loans from the Philippines
banking system is expected.
38.       Various programs exist to provide medium-term financing to farmers,
including several supported by the Bank Group (Fourth Rural Credit, Loan
1399-PH; Second Livestock, Loan 1225-PH; and Small Farmer Development (Land
Bank), Loan 1646-PH). Credit for postharvest facilities is available under
the Second Grain Processing project (Loan 1269-PH).
Agricultural Marketing and Storage
39.       Traditionally, the marketing and storage of food crops and livestock
has been handled mainly by the private sector. While this is still largely
the case for crops other than cereals and for livestock, an increasing share
of the marketing of foodgrains, feedgrains and pulses has been assumed by the
Government's National Grains Authority. Participation in marketing by
producer organizations is relatively minor, although the Government is
supporting the formation of cooperatives. Inadequate drying, milling and
storage facilities continue to constrain agricultural production in most
areas of the country, including Iloilo province, and inadequate shipping
facilities are increasingly hampering interisland and export trade of grains.
A Bank loan (Grain Processing II, Loan 1269-PH) provides financing for the
construction or improvement of storage and milling facilities for grains.



- 12 -
Rural Roads
40.       The poor condition of rural roads is a major problem in practically
all areas in the country. The division of responsibility for road maintenance
among public agencies, inadequate procedures and lack of funds are the main
causes of this. The rural roads project proposed for Bank financing in 1980,
which will cover six provinces including Iloilo, will endeavor to alleviate
institutional shortcomings and provide financing for rural road rehabili-
tation.
Human Nutrition
41.       Malnutrition is widespread in the Philippines and poses a recognized
national problem of major social and economic significance. The most common
types of malnutrition found, which are aggravated by anemia and diarrhea, are
(i) energy-protein malnutrition; (ii) iron-deficiency anemia; (iii) vitamin A
deficiency; and (iv) iodine deficiency. The simultaneous establishment in
1974 of the National Nutrition Council and the Nutrition Center of the
Philippines reflect the Government's concern to launch an integrated nutrition
program to marshall effectively the technical expertise and financial
resources of the public and private sector. The Ministries of Agriculture and
Education are the main agencies responsible for preventing malnutrition
through education and extension programs, while the Ministries of Health and
Social Services are concerned with monitoring and remedial activities related
to nutrition. The proposed project would include a component supportive of
these activities.
Experience with Past Lending
42.       The proposed project would be the first area development-type proj-
ect financed by the Bank which has as its primary objective the promotion of
rainfed agricultural development in lowland areas. There are four Bank Group-
assisted rural development projects with features similar to the proposed
project. These are the Rural Development (Mindoro) Project (Loan 1102-PH),
the Rural Development II (Land Settlement) Project (Loan 1421-PH), the Rural
Infrastructure Project (Credit 790-PH), and the Samar Island Rural Development
Project (Loan 1772-PH). Progress on the Mindoro Project was initially dis-
appointing due to slow mobilization and difficulties with the contractors
building roads; however, the situation has improved. The Land Settlement
Project also suffered from mobilization problems, but is now making good
physical progress. Implementation of the Rural Infrastructure Project is
proceeding very well, with the exception of the road component, the progress
of which is slow. The relatively poor initial progress of these projects
involving a large number of implementing agencies, and the remaining
difficulties affecting the road component, result from poor coordination among
the agencies and also their unfamiliarity with Bank r,quirements and proce-
dures. These problems are being overcome, and implementation of all four
projects is now generally satisfactory.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
43.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture,
with the as 'stance of staff of Iloilo province and the World Bank. It was
appraised in April-May 1979 and negotiations took place in Washington, D.C.
from February 11 to 13, 1980. The Philippine negotiating team was led by
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Miguel M. Zosa. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2695-PH, dated February 20, 1980) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III of this
report.
44.       The project represents the first major effort to support a
multiple-cropping technology which may eventually prove to be the most
effective means of raising the agricultural productivity of lowland areas
which have satisfactory rainfall but which are not suitable for irrigation.
It draws on the experience of the highly successful and innovative Kabsaka
project initiated in a small area of Iloilo Province, and seeks to extend the
technology to all suitable areas of the province (i.e., some 60,000 ha) and,
in the longer run, to other provinces in the Philippines which have comparable
conditions. In this regard, the project offers the prospect of a breakthrough
in addressing the problems of rainfed agriculture in other parts of the world
which have conditions similar to those in Iloilo. The project would also
support and reinforce other ongoing investments in Iloilo under the national
programs to increase their impact on agricultural productivity. A central
strategy in this effort to increase the intensity of land use and raise farm
incomes would be to apply an approach akin to integrated area development, but
based on the new technology. This approach would stress a comprehensive and
balanced development in rainfed areas and facilitate the realization of a
broad range of opportunities rather than merely transfer new technology to
farmers. The major elements of this strategy would be the promotion of
livestock activities along with the crop programs; the construction of
scattered multipurpose water impounding schemes; the construction of a grains
storage and shipment facility; support for efforts to improve nutrition; the
upgrading of institutions and manpower; and assistance for research and future
project preparation.
Project Area
45.       With the exception of selected experimental activities in other
parts of the country, the project would be confined to Iloilo province in the
Western Visayas, which has a total land area of about 532,400 ha and a
population of 1.4 million. Agricultural and marketing development would cover
the province's lowlands, excluding irrigated areas and Guimaras Island, while
the nutrition component would cover selected areas throughout the province.
Rice, accounting for over 50% of the cultivated area, is the province's
predominant crop, followed by sugarcane, coconuts and corn. Livestock
production is well established. The climate is humid tropical, with yearly
rainfall averaging above 2,000 mm and a monthly average temperature ranging
from 250C to 27oC. About 70% of annual rainfall occurs during the wet



- 14 -
months of June-November. The soils are slightly acid and are well suited for
the production of rice and a wide range of other crops. Of the potential
irrigable area of 70,000 ha in Iloilo, some 60% is currently under irrigation
and an additional 20% is scheduled for development in the 1980s. The average
farm size is about 2 ha. About 60% of the farmers in Iloilo province are full
or part owners, and progress of land reform has been above the national
average.
Project Detail
46.       Agricultural Production Services.  Building on existing staff and
on resources to be provided through the National Extension Project (Loan
1626-PH), the project would equip the extension system in the province to
cope with the specific requirements of introducing a new crop production
technology on a large scale and, at the same time, promote noncropping
activities on project farms. Some 56 additional extension and other support
staff, vehicles, equipment and office space would be provided. A small
diagnostic laboratory would be developed in Iloilo City to serve an expanded
animal health program. Several small extension centers would also be con-
structed. Farmers would have better access to high-quality seeds as the
Iloilo Seed Growers Association would be encouraged to construct seed
processing and storage facilities, and funds would be provided for extension
of the Regional Seed Testing Laboratory at Jaro and for hiring of ten
additional seed inspectors.
47.       Adaptive Trials.  The project would support adaptive trial work of
two types: (a) at two additional locations in the Iloilo project area to
further refine cropping systems to local conditions and to develop forage
crops for these systems; and (b) in other provinces, primarily on Mindanao
Island, with a view to validating the feasibility of the new technology in
other areas and laying the groundwork for future projects in these areas.
48.       Water Impounding and Irrigation Systems.  Small earthen dams would
be constructed in up to 40 locations to facilitate the productive use of
run-off water for various purposes, such as the irrigation of a total of
approximately 1,800 ha in scattered locations that could not be provided by
major irrigation schemes, fish production, water supply for household and
livestock consumption, generation of electricity, and recreation. The
impounding would also reduce flood damage downstream. Minor soil conservation
measures would be applied on a pilot basis in the catchment area. This
component would maximize the benefits to be derived from the new crop
technology, contribute to a broad enhancement of rural life for its
beneficiaries, and also serve as a practical experiment to guide future
efforts for establishing similar systems across the country.



- 15 -
49.       Grains Storage and Shipment Facility.  The rapidly growing out-
shipment requirements for grains would be facilitated through the provision
of cleaning, grading, standardization and bagging equipment and the con-
struction of a storage and shipment facility in the Iloilo port area. The
facility's capacity would be 10,000 tons of grains.
50.       Training and Pilot Village Development Program.  Major emphasis
would be on the training of farmers, agricultural extension and support agency
staff, managers, supervisors and other key staff. A residential training
facility would be established in Iloilo City. Innovative features of this
component would be a change in the overall approach to training, aimed at
transferring greater responsibility for development initiative from the
Government to intended beneficiaries, and a test scheme for a comprehensive
village development package. The latter would include education and training
directed at whole village communities, with the objective of enabling the
communities to better assess their needs and take action to meet those needs.
51.       Human Nutrition.  Staff, equipment, materials and training would be
provided to treat and prevent severe and moderate anemia in the province's
rural population. Similar efforts also would aim at reducing the adverse
effects of diarrhea.
52.       Project Preparation.  Promising results have been achieved under a
pilot rainfed agriculture scheme in Western Mindanao. The project would
provide funds for consultancies and support facilities for the preparation
of project proposals for continuation and greater area coverage of that
scheme. Furthermore, the Bureau of Soils' planning and project preparation
capability would be strengthened.
53.       Project M4anagement Support.  Staff, office facilities, vehicles,
equipment and consultancy services would be provided for a Project Secretariat
in M4anila and a Project Management Unit to be located in Iloilo.
Organization and Management
54.       Overall responsibility for physical implementation of the project
would rest with the regional and provincial staff of the national line
agencies and of the Provincial Government of Iloilo. However, the Project
Manager and his staff, who would be located in the Office of the Regional
Director of ISA (in Iloilo City), would have day-to-day responsibility
for overseeing implementation by the designated agencies, assisting the
agencies in preparing their budget requests and reimbursement claims, approv-
ing the release by the Budget Ministry of project funds to the agencies, and
taking necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit and inputs continue to
be made available in a timely fashion to project participants. The Project
Manager, and any future replacement, would be appointed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). He would be directed by and report to the Regional Director of MDA,



- 16 -
who would be the chairman of the Project Management Committee./I This
Committee would comprise representatives of all participant groups involved in
the project and be responsible for guiding and coordinating implementation at
the local level.
55.       Implementation of the project would require coordination between a
number of national ministries and agencies in addition to the Ministry of
Agriculture, which would be responsible for all crop and livestock production
activities. An Interagency Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture and served by a small secretariat attached to the
Office of the Minister, would be responsible for coordinating activities and
for all aspects of implementation at the national level.
56.       Responsibility for training activities would rest with a Project
Training Coordinator in the Project Manager's Office, who would be appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank no later than June 30, 1980
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project Manager, assisted
by the training coordinator and consultants, would be directly responsible for
the pilot village development program, to be designed by a task force to be
established by the Interagency Project Coordinating Committee. A detailed
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the pilot village
development program, would be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1980
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The National Food and Agriculture
Council (NFAC) would organize the research and trials, and liaise with the
Philippine Council on Agricultural Resources and Research (PCARR) and the
executing agencies. It has been agreed that NFAC would consult with the Bank
concerning the formulation of research programs (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The nutrition component would be implemented under the
direction of the Ministry of Health through the Provincial Health Officer who
would be assisted by a full-time Nutrition Component Manager. The National
Grains Authority would supervise the establishment of the grains storage and
shipment facility. Production and marketing credit would be provided through
existing sources and channels in the project area. Agencies of the Ministry
of Agriculture would undertake preparation of future projects. The establish-
ment of the Project Management and Coordinating Committees and the appointment
of the Project Manager would be conditions of effectiveness (Sections 5.01(a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The water impounding component would be implemented under the auth-
ority of the Small Water Impounding Management (SWIM) Committee and its Tech-
nical Working Group which were established under Letter of Instruction No. 898
on July 25, 1979. Detailed national policies and guidelines for implementa-
tion of the schemes, including those in this component, are still being
developed. It would be a condition of effectiveness that these policies and
guidelines have been issued and are in force (Section 5.01(c) of the draft
A   The Governor of Iloilo Province and the Regional Director of BAEx would
serve as co-chairmen of the Project Management Committee until such time
as the Regional Director of Agriculture has been appointed.



- 17 -
Loan Agreement). It is expected that the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) would assist the Bureau of Soils in the selection of sites for the water
impounding schemes, review of designs, detailed engineering and construction
of related irrigation structures. NIA would also assist the Farm Systems
Development r,orporation (FSDC) to ensure that established procedures for
collecting capital recovery charges are followed. The Bureau of Soils
would establish a special unit in Iloilo to carry out the necessary surveys,
establish design criteria, prepare topographic maps, cost estimates and
economic analyses, and oversee implementation. Construction of dams and major
structures would be carried out either by contractors or by force account.
FSDC would assist in organizing farmers into Irrigation Service Associations.
It has been agreed that arrangements concerning the cooperation between NIA,
FSDC and the Bureau of Soils for implementation of this component of the
project would be formalized no later than September 30, 1980 (Section 3.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement), that farmers whose land would be affected would be
adequately compensated (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement), that the
necessary water rights would be granted to the relevant Irrigation Service
Associations (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement), that dams and related
structures would be periodically inspected to ensure safety, with appropriate
arrangements for Bank review no later than one year before the expected
completion of the structures (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement),
that prior to implementation, an evaluation report for systems costing P
900,000 or more would be furnished to the Bank for review, and that summary
data forms would be furnished for the other systems (Section 3.11 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
58.       Existing manpower of the participating agencies would be augmented
through the provision of additional staff and through staff training. Consul-
tants would be employed by the agencies and the Project Manager as and when
needed. It has been agreed that the implementing agencies would employ compe-
tent staff in accordance with a staffing program satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at $21.4 million (including $1.8
million duties and taxes), of which $9.7 million, or 45%, is foreign exchange
cost. Consultants' services would total $1.26 million, with the cost per man-
month ranging from $3,000 to $6,000. The contingency allowance of $6.3 mil-
lion comprises physical contingencies estimated at about 9% and price contin-
gencies estimated at 25% of base costs. Price contingencies for imported
equipment and services assume an inflation rate of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981,
8% in 1982 and 7% during 1983-85; and for locally produced goods and services,
an inflation rate of 16% in 1980, 10% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% thereafter.
60.        The proposed Bank loan of $12.0 million would finance 56% of the
total cost; it would cover all foreign exchange costs and 20% of local costs.
Justification for local cost financing is contained in para. 22 of this
report. The Government would provide an additional $9.0 million to finance
local staff salaries and operation and maintenance costs. Farmers' contri-



- 18 -
butions would amount to $0.4 million and would primarily include contributions
to the implementation of the water impounding component.
Procurement
61.       Equipment, vehicles and supplies for force account construction and
for extension, training, research, marketing, maintenance of water impounding
infrastructure, nutrition improvement and management support, costing about
$4.2 million, would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference, limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local procurement
practices, which are satisfactory to the Bank, would be appropriate for
off-the-shelf items costing less than $20,000 each, because the advantages of
international competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by the adminis-
trative costs involved. There is adequate competition and foreign firms may
participate. Small orders would be bulked to the extent possible. The total
cost of such items would not exceed $500,000.
62.       Civil works in the project area ($4.7 million, excluding contin-
gencies) would be relatively small for most of the construction subprojects
and are widely scattered throughout the province. They would include offices,
training facilities, small structures, a grains storage and shipment facility,
small dams, irrigation canals and drainage systems. These works have to be
planned and executed on short notice outside of the growing season and to
avoid bad weather, and would therefore not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. Steps have been taken over the past several years to
strengthen local contractors and the response to recent bids for such works
has been encouraging. However, it is doubtful that all civil works could be
done by contract and some of them (e.g., buildings and some dams, costing
about $1.6 million), would therefore be carried out by force account.
Competitive bidding, in accordance with normal Government procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank, is appropriate for the work to be executed under
contract. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign firms would
be eligible to participate.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 75% of the cost of civil
works; 100% of the foreign exchange or local ex-factory cost of vehicles,
equipment and supplies, and 75% of the cost if these items are purchased
locally off the shelf; 100% of the cost of consultants; 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of overseas training; 75% of the cost of local training programs
and surveys; and 50% of incremental local salaries. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1986. The project would provide
$200,000 in retroactive financing to cover expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1980 for the project's management, extension services, crop trials,
training, water impounding, and nutrition activities (Schedule 1, para. 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for incremental staff salaries,
local training and surveys, and civil works carried out by force account or



- 19 -
under contracts of less than $50,000 each would be made against statements of
expenditure; documentation would be retained for review by Bank missions.
All other disbursements would be against normal documentation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       Because of the experimental nature of this project, a significant
monitoring effort is considered to be essential. The Project Manager would be
responsible for designing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system
for the project. To assist the Project Manager, a Monitoring and Research
Officer, who would be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of agri-
cultural and marketing activities, would be appointed, under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1980 (Section 3.08(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). MIonitoring of health and nutrition activities
would be supervised directly by the Nutrition Component Manager in the
Ministry of Health. The National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH) provides
for consultancy assistance to the National Food and Agriculture Council to
study ways of developing more effective monitoring and evaluation systems for
agricultural extension activities. This study will be carried out in 1980.
The Project Manager and Monitoring and Research Officer, in collaboration with
the National Extension Project consultants, would design a monitoring system,
compatible with the proposed national system, to meet the specific needs of
the project, by November 30, 1980, and to be implemented no later than January
31, 1981 (Section 3.08(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
65.       The project would increase yields and cropping intensity on about
60,000 ha and provide supplementary irrigation on about 1,800 ha. Livestock
production would be promoted or intensified on about 6,000 farms. For crops
and livestock together, approximately 40,000 farm families and 5,000 landless
laborers' families, or a total of about 270,000 people would benefit directly
from increased production and associated employment. The project would help
to provide farmers with a more assured outlet for their products through
promotion of improvements in the marketing system. The farm value of annual
incremental production, in constant 1980 prices, would reach approximately
$22 million. Average annual farm incomes, presently estimated at about $400,
are expected to at least double under the project, taking into account a small
reduction in incomes derived from off-farm employment.  The project's benefits
would accrue largely to small farmers in Iloilo, with the remainder being
distributed between wage labor employed throughout the production and
marketing chain and the trade involved in supplying farm inputs and in
marketing project output. The impact on the Government budget would be
negative during the initial two project years ($7 million, cumulative) and
slightly favorable thereafter. The project would create a demand for
additional employment, equivalent to about 4,400 full-time jobs for eight
months of the year. The wide range of crops and the livestock products to be
promoted under the project, largely for local consumption, would significantly
improve the quantity, as well as the nutritional value, of food available to
the whole population of the province. A special focus of the project would
seek to reduce anemia and to alleviate the adverse effects of diarrhea. It



- 20 -
is expected that the multiple cropping technology, the water impounding
schemes, the nutrition improvements and the small village development program
could be replicated successfully elsewhere in the country with the experience
gained under this project. It is Government policy to recover 90% of the
investments in water impounding structures over a 25-year period at an effec-
tive annual interest rate of about 1.5%. Under these terms, the cost recovery
index would be 21%. Farmers would be responsible for operating and maintain-
ing the water impounding dams and associated irrigation systems.
66.       Approximately 75% of the investments under the project would yield
an overall economic rate of return of 37%. A high return is indicated for
extension of multiple cropping technology, while for water impounding (i.e.,
39% of investments included in the analysis) it is only 15%. The analysis for
water impounding, however, did not take into account any benefits other than
from irrigation, although substantial other benefits affecting the quality of
life of the local population are known to be derived from such schemes. No
economic analysis has been performed for the nutrition and research components
or for preparation of future projects since the benefits could not be
quantified in monetary terms.
Risks
67.       There are sizeable but acceptable risks involved in an effort to
increase cropping intensity and yields under rainfed conditions. The main
risk factors are drought damage to crops, and the inability of farmers to meet
increased labor and capital requirements. The project would seek to minimize
these risks by promoting less risk-prone cropping patterns, husbandry techni-
ques and better management of time, and by encouraging, through close coopera-
tion with the banks, the development and increased application of appropriate
financing methods such as the Integrated Agricultural Financing Scheme, and
also debt restructuring when necessary. While credit is not financed under
the project, the existing institutions and credit resources in Iloilo are
adequate to meet project requirements.
68.       The special risks associated with water impounding warrant that this
component be considered a pilot effort. Only a few such schemes exist in the
province, and limited experience is available with their construction on a
communal basis countrywide; most have been built by larger individual farmers.
Since physical and social conditions vary greatly, the larger effort supported
by the project is required to establish conclusively the viability of water
impounding along lines proposed in the project. The implementation risks are
lessened by the fact that the proposed dams and associated irrigation
infrastructure would be very small, i.e., with a service area of approximately
50 ha, that experience could be accumulated throughout implementation, and
that designs and procedures could be modified to keep construction costs down
and realize maximum benefits. Close coordination among the experienced
irrigation and agricultural agencies in the country is expected to increase
the chances of success from the outset.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.  The establishment of Project Management and
Coordinating Committees, the appointment of a Project 14anager, and the putting
into effect of detailed policies and guidelines for the implementation of the
water impounding schemes have been made additional conditions of effectiveness
of the loan (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
At tachments
Washington, D.C.
February 29 , 1980



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
nULIPPINU - SOC7IL IUDICAIOU DATA SIICT
AIPPND  CIROUIM            U     E  OUPS (ADJUSTED    A
LOD A_U (T_USODD0, M SO- a.W                                                            U
TOTAL           3DO. 0                                                S         SmP      IT  IICI
AMICWLTURAL      86:7                               HT S6C.NT       G63GPUIC    uDCO         18C163
1960 A     1970 A  ISTSNAX A       *ZON /c  CEO PLL   GROUP L
GNP PU CAITA  USS)                  140.0      230.0    510.0           52Z.9      467.5      1097.7
INSGCT CWUs13pTlWo PE CUSTA
(KILOCGM  OF COAL EQUIVALT)      147.0       301.0    329.0           371.1      262.1      730.7
POULATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
POPUATION, HID-TER (ILLIONS)    27.4          36.9      4.5
IIUn  POPMLATION (FIPUT  0F TOTL) 30.1        31.8      34.0           27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PSOJ2CINWS
POPULATIOW IN TSR 2000 CEMLOUS)                       76.0
STATIOAURY POPLATION (MILLIONS)                      125.0
TM  STAI.ioNUy POPULATION IS  AGUD                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PU sq. M.                       91.0       123.0    148.0           154.8       45.3        4.6
PM  SQ. II. AGRICULTURAL LUD    360.0      472.0    513.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGZ SmUCTRE (PUCENT)
0-14 YES.                       44.7        45.5      46.0           41.3       45.2       41.3
15-64 TRS.                       52.3        53.6      51.0           54.9       51.9       55.3
65 YES. AND ABOVE                 3.0         2.9       3.0            3.3        2.8        3.5
POPULATION GROWT1 RATE (PUGCUT)
TOTAL                            2.7         3.0       2.7            2.4        2.7        2.4
0331.                            4.0         3.8       3.5            4.3        4.3        4.5
CRUDZ BIXr RATE (TP  THOUSAD)    45.0         43.0      35.0           30.2       39.4       31.1
CRUDE DEAT RATE (PU TOUSND)        15.0       11.0       9.0            8.3       11.7        9.2
o5ss UEPIODoCTIWO RAT!             3.51L       3.3       2.4            2.1        2.7        2.2
FA4HLT PLANING
ACCEPTOS. AlIUAL (TIDaSADS)       ..       191.7    643.0
USERS (PEC=T 0F HARIED WU )    ..            2.0      22.0           34.1       13.2       34.7
FOOD AND NURITION
INDEX Of FOOD P3ODDCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1      101.0    111.0           106.2       99.6      104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PRCOST O0
REQUIRD2CTS)                   83.0       56.0      87.0          104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTZINS (GClAS PI DAY)         44.0        45.0      50.0           57.4       54.3       64.4
0Y WHICH ANINAL AND PULSZ      19.0k      22.0      19.2           16.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) tOTALITY RATE     16.0       10.0       7.0            4.8       11.4        8.6
gEALTr
LIFe EXPBC.NT AT BRDl  (ARS)   51.0           57.0      60.0           61.1       54.7       60.2
INFANT NOTALITT RATE (PER
MTOUSAND)                         98.0        S0.0      65.0           46.6       68.1       46.7
ACCESS TO SAr! WATER (PZRCENT O1
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      39.0           21.9       34.4       60.5
UIBAN                             ..          ..      51.0           46.2       57.9       75.7
RURAL                             ..          ..      33.0           12.8       21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO EXCLETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
0 POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      56.0           28.4       40.8       46.0
BAN                               ..          ..      76.0           65.0       71.3       46.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      44.0           14.7       27.7       22.5
?OPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..          ..   3150.0          3790.5    6799.4      2262.4
POPt'LATION PER .URSINC PERSON      ..      3840.0   4990.0          1107.4    1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1180.0      850.0    880.0           613.3      726.5      453.4
rURBAN                            *-          *-        *-          203.6      272.7      253.i
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..          1110.3    1404.4      2732.4
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8D          ..          ..        ..           23.9       27.5       22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEOD
TOTAL                            5.8         5.9       ..             5.2        5.4        5.3
URBAN                             ..         6.2       ..              .-        5.1        5.2
RURAL                             *          5.8       ..              ..        5.5        5.4
AVERAGE !0SMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         2.3       ..              .-         *-         1.9
TRBAN                             ..         2.1       ..              .          ..        1.6
RJRAL                                        2.4       ..              ..         ..        2.5
ACCESS :0 ELECTRICITY (PRCENRT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            16.5       22.9/h   31.0              *-       28.1       50.0
URSAN                             '-        62.87b      *-              *       45.1       71.7
RURAL                             ..         5.8jh   10.0              ..        9.9       17.3



23-                                                     AINNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TALL 3A
PRILIPPLNZS - SOCIAL INDICATOUB DATA SURE?
REEiRum CE (WPS (STED AIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
SM41       SANS NMXm   HIGHER
MDST RCRNT   GCEOGRAPRIC   LIC(RI        IIICOR
1960 Lb    1970 /b 2STIMATE /b     REGION Ic  GROUP Id   GROUP /
EDUCATION
AJUlSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMUT:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0    105.0            97.9       82.7       102.5
HA"L                98.0       115.0    102.0            98.7       87.3       108.6
FDEAt               93.0       113.0    10P.0            97.4       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                26.0        50.0     56.0            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALI                28.0        59.0      65.0           46.7       33.0        38.4
FEMALE              25.0        U2.0      47.0           40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EROL. (Z OF SECONA&R)  15.0          6.0       ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TACIER RATIO
PRDtARY                          36.0        29.0     29.0            32.5       34.1       35.8
SECONDA.RY                       27.0        33.0     31.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LTERACY RATE (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6     87.0            86.1       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGHR CARS PER iURHSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         8.0      8.9             6.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECIIVERS PER TCUSAND
POPULATION                       22.0        39.0     44.0            S4.4       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER TIICUSAND
POPULATION                        1.4        10.0     17.0            22.4       13.5       38.3
HllSPAPER (ODAILY GENEAL
I_TEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                17.0        14.0     18.0            26.2       18.3       40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDMAI  PQ CAPITA  0.6         ..       7.6             3.6        2.5        3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOMAL LAbOR FORCE (ThOUSANDS)   10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 3A.4       33.1      35.3            36.7       29.2       25.0
AGRICULTUE (PERCENT)             61.0        55.0     50.9            54.6       62.7       43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               15.2       15.8      14.8            16.3       11.9       21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              39.8       36.6      35.3            40.7       37.1       33.5
MALE                               52.1        48.6     47.1            49.9       48.8       48.0
FEMALE                             27.4       24.4      23.3            31.0       20.4       11.8
ECONOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4      1.3             1.1        1.1        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE 10co0z
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSElOLDS   28.8        ..        ..            14.9       15.2       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCElr OF W3SEROLDS  56.2       53.9      53.3            46.8       48.2       52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF WCSESOLDS    4.2        3.7       5.5             6.2        6.3        3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF dOUSfOLDS   11.9        11.9     14.7            16.8       16.3       12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URPAN                              ..         ..    250.0            193.1      241.3      270.0
RURAL                              ..         ..    190.0            128.7      136.6      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERSY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..    132.0            136.8      179.7      282.5
RURAL                              ..         ..      87.0            96.8      103.7      248.9
ESTIMATED POPUlATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCtNT)
bRBAN                              ..         ..      39.0            32.0      24.8        20.5
RURAL                              ..         ..      44.0            52.5       37.5       35.3
..ot available
Not applicablee.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for ech indicator are population-waighted geometric mans. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatiats, between 1974 and 1977.
/I   East Asia & Pacific;   /d Lover Middle Incme (S281-550 per capita. 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135 per capi;a, TN76);  If  1950-55;  LI  Av. 1960-62; /h  1967. households.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 24 -                                                                          ANNEX I
OVI) OIN  r SCIAL__D___O                                                                  Page   3   of   5
Mo0tes:  dltheag  ths data are da  froot sourcse  generelly judged the -ast euthritatie and reliahle, it should aLso he Dote  that they .   act he lotersa.
tbooafl.y comparable because of the lack of standardised definitions end conept. nsed by different countries is collecting the data. The date are, mossthelses,
useful to describe orders of epitude, indicate trends, nd ohmartctser. certain onjr differences between countries.
Th    :fl4gf   ae   es for sth indicator are, population-vighted geooetric taeen, socuiaddg the extren, velss  of theincaoadte    tpputd
cousijidhht grup.Diito le  of data, group aveng4es of .1.1 indicators for Capital Surplus Oil flpsrters end of Indicators of Access to Wdatr end Jocreta
Disposal, Muing, Income Distrihution end Poverty for  tothr country proupe are population-oighted geetrlo  --c  cithout solusio  of the entrees vaussd
the tes  poplted country.  Since the covrage of countris mgthe 1 idatrV =dcad  o  av eility.of da.ta ed is act Unfoet. cation oust he onerised
is r-Ieting eraesE.  of as Inicator t.oanother,  These avne   r   ntrus la   orontis of 'eoce   vle                                 wi coopning the values of con
indicator at a tie s eWs the county end rfefrnces croons.
LAND dUEA (thousand sq.Jo.)                                                             Asnese to brn    Itiosf       (ecn   f  cuatcfloal   se    n   ua 
-7fMrl  TetuL surface are  ocepristg lend area end inlan   aes                              ahrofpol   oa,wen   n   oa)srd                      by eDTreb dipoala
~huitural -Most recen  estimate of ag'icultural arvea used twoporarily                  percentages of their respective popoulatlons. Etcorta disposal my inccide
or pernaenecly for crps, pastures, tenket end kitchen gardens or to                   the collection end disposal, cith or  ithnut troateent, of h.inn  --rvte
lie fullo.                                                                           and vat.-.eter by cats-hone  syat-  or the use of pot privies end eatlsr
- IM  percapia saiate  si  urret eaket  rice,    jp44qpt pg  Phi=4as  -Ppltion dieAdsd by ousher of practicing phsLieen
-diiItidiTby sm    - co ricm method as Worid Bank Atlas (1976-78 basis);               -juuaii--r .shool at einavrity Level.
1960 ,1970, ad 1978 data.                                                             PpltoosnuigPeon-opulation divided by outhor of pracotetig sole
SEWIT C:SUtDTI0B PER CAPITA - Aoenal coosoetice of coneroial. ..er.                       enreasgrdatrure,practical hurees, end assistanttos.
(coa  en  ligito  peroisa,  naual gs ad byro. acear  nd  ec-P.eltl vor Hnsoitul Bed7 -to .talwen  ed rua  - Poplation (total, wbhe,
thossal electricity) in bilogree  of coalI oquivLono Per capita;                                         Haoedrra)dvdd by thei  respective ouhe   fopita1 beds availahls in
1970, end 1976 data,                                                                    public ad private Sorerl. ad speciell-od hostpital ad r-habiiitntl   cntr,
Hocpit.ls are estoblisbadots pereesetly staffed by at least ono physician.
PoOPUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           Istehlishbesets prov,iding principally custodial cars are hoct icolded.  uR-1l
TtotalPopoltio. mdya   mlin)-As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end                              hospitals, bonevr, include health and esdicsl cctors cot peresanotly otaffod
.977 data.                                                      b~~~~~~~~~~~~y * pys i-ia  bhut by. a mdical aceietant, crs,  ldoife, etc.) ohchhoffer
Urban  tvp    ,,a I'll (cret ofr total    Ratio of urba  to tota  populatico;            L.-petico't acoca-datio  en-d proide   ilinedd rags of endical facilitis
oifront dfioitico:,o  ure     Wre   o  affect oonparahilitp of data              Adftlcostj.Monnl-ptukOBd - Total outer of adeosi.o. to or dis-hargos from
soug occre;1960, 1970, and 1975 data,ee                                                          divided    one oute..r of cede.
~~~~~~ C- rroc  populotico pr-jectio-  are basedc                           OJIN
W5   41TiiFj'lliTh  by agean  .e  end their mertaisty end fertility                Versra. 11cr of Household (per-oo  no pr houehoid) - total. -when, and rural -
_tts..Iprojection paresseters for scrt,lity rates cosprise of three                 A house hold -oneists of a grop of iodivid..is oh. chars living quarter  end
lee-   ssano  lieepstny an tint  -o-sasin  slith coutry's                           thiry sale meals. A hoarder or idg-r sy or any cot be ilducd on too
pery Opil Osicot  leve, ud fselle life sopoct-ny otoilining at                     hi.u..hold for statistical purposes.
75por.The parsastors for fertility rate  als  nave thros levels            doA= e outerf peso   e  oo              oa,uban, and rura  - A-oage  uno
-Louic   dciosi  fertility according to Jcot  level and pat                        of perospr  osI .l.e,en.ua.ccpe.ooetoo  oeios
foni ly olacoig porf-ruc. Eush coutry is thee assigned one ofthese                  rospeticly.  Poelihgs occlude cu-pereoet otrutura end u-cPoed Part.
tie   bsiontios  of sorta.lhty end fertility trends for projection             Access to Elsoricity (cement of deelIlo) - totaL. urben. and rual - Con-
Poroec                                                                               etiotal  _nlog  ot  vlcntric;t  10  i-i    q-utors as pcr..c.tsgv  ~
otaticosor population  - Sn u stationay popuIanoos there ise o  grothb                total, urban, and rura  d-Iliogs repectively.
since tie hith rate is equal to the death rate, end also the sge
structur  renam    -tstat. This is  rchi-vd osly after fertility rates         EDCAT0150
decIlneW tohs r-piacon-st level of unit tot r-productioc rate, oheo               Adjusted Enrolment Ratice
each geneatioc of  -uo  replaces itself  -catly.  The stationary popo-              Primaryshoo -  otl   al  end fessele  G- Gos  total, sale end femai  -nroi-
Int. c  coo  en  ostiated cc the hale cf the projected  haracteristics               ca   Ifalse   t the pisr-Y Level as pevOOOegeef rePective prisary
ofthe popuI.int     in the year 2030, sod tse vats of delino of fertility            ochool-ses populat ions.; ec-ally Linldes childre  aged 6-li yea-  but
rate to rpcmet level.                                                                 adjusted for differet length. of priesry education; for  -;tr ies cite
Year jtationos  oupltico israhed - The yea   h.en statiochy population                  universal educa.tion e-c.lne-t soy ececed 100 pernent cine  -om  pupils
cico ben boon roamed.                                                                 ar  bolos or niovo the official ached  ag..
RousieDenolty                                                                     levondoc  scol-tna.cl   n  fesal  - Cospted as aloe 1,   -co-Y
Per 3o. kh.. -(tin-pea  population per square Ailo-t.te  (150 hectares) of              educto  reqire  ciac or  er  of apyrc-d pri-oc  inet -tion-
to talure                                                                             provides genera -.1 natieoal, or teacher trainiog int-tuio-  for pupils
Per so. as  aiulua  ad - Conputed en above for seri-utura  land                         usull oX  f 12 to 17 year  of see;  --rep-ede-   gorscar -c-rlly
only,                                                                                 occlded.
PPoulation Ago Strucur  (Per...tti - Children (0-in years), arAbs-see                   Vc_tioa .   aro. mei (or-t of secoder) - Vocationa  tcsnltti.t.. otl
(15  . yars), cod retired  (hO year  end over) as percetages of Sid-year                techhnical, iduotrtal, or other pr-gra, chion operate independentlyors
populatio; 1760, 1970, end 1977 data.                                                   dcpcrtnento of oncodoy lostituti_es
P,ceoltioniout  Rato   reset -total - ensoul goeh -tos of tota  aid-                    Pupil-teahe  raoi -t  crimry1=Y end osoodary, - Total otudento  -nrcild 
yerppltions fr.  195-tO  19c0-S0, sod 1970-77.                                      prisary sod seodaylvesdvIe   y oue,ifnarhr    tohoevre
opltoGrowth Rate  percen) - -<whe  - AnnuaL genoth votes of uha                      ponding loveIe.
poulttnefr 190c,196-', and 1970-75.                                              Adult literacy rate (percent, - Litrate  adults (ableto vend and -rit.) as
RII.  ihate   er thoosand) - A-.uaL Live birts per thouand of mod-                  ap-rntnge of tonal nou1t populatice seed  5 year  and over.
year population; IWO, 1970, sod 1977 late.
Crde leach Onto  see nth-acd) - A.-oa deaths per thoucad of e10-year                C0BowT pIt
eplio;19cR, 1970, and i977 data.                                            _Passese Care  per thousan.d ppolotion) - Passnge  oar-s  -oprise ounrt ar
Gp'ros Rpro.du;ction Rate-Oversee  ubh- of daughter a- oe   ill bear                    seaing les  th  en ight perarn; occludes anhblanoos, horoo  o  elitary
t. her1 toral rerdoieperiod if ohe -operin...s peuot see-                             vehicles.
op_cifl  fert'Iity votes; usua-lly fiv-pear  --gerse  ending ic 1960,               Radio Receivers (per thousand,copultico)-  ill typeso  rcivr f          orai
1970, end 1975                                                                        brudeasta  ogenoa  pu.    blice  thMooad of population; 00 ude             --ood
Fanily Poneh5s A-doeptore. Annua  (thou-do) - A-.u.I outer of                           reciver  1n onu_tren ad o year  coon vgictratien of radio cn  .eo .0
accptor  of birth-cotrol devices un-c   -pi... of national  fanily                    cyffet; lane for r..oent year  sop non he  -op-bsle nicer               t
piencieg crogeen.                                               ehol~~~~~~~~~b.inthd licens.ing.
o iyPunc i-  Snor         - cret of espiedcon        e-Poentage of carried        TY Receirer   per thouoeno copulative) - TV recever  for brcdo-t to ceneral
ocs   f chold-tbarbg age .3u   yer)eou birth-cotrol devices                        pulic per thousand popultioc; ..oclde- unLic....ed Ot vsni-eretoc.t--
ne  ils i.td  -eson Ic o         esee grop.                                           end in year  oh regint-ation of OTV cots cas  to efc.
De-P,ee Cicliln(e  thnunand opltio_n) - Shoe  the  -o-ae  ieooto
FOOD AND PifofTlt                                                                         of 'olgerainrstoepap:;', def,oe  us sper;-d-cn  pbiliontice
icdc of Food Prdoitte    no1969-71-100) - icdeof pero-pits                              cecuted priesily no recMorig geceval nece.   nIt  cons..idered to be 'Sailly
encoal productio'   falfo          ailn  Predetlo   eclud.. sed cd                    if it oppear.  t leat fcur times a sect
feed sod iu on osbenour Year basis.  Torditios covr priaary goods                   Cines  Annua  Attoindone per C.pit. -c bear - eased  0the ouerof0 et
(ecg. ouatr        ta   fsgr   uhaeeii   n  conteictutrints                           od7d -during the ~yea, icoloding ad s tn touoiv-io cineo  ad-             hl
e..cffead tea aresoluded).  Aggrogato p-od-ti- of eah ce-ay                    .mit,
on_asd on ntional innin    produe  pric   -isebto.
oer capita -ucly of caore   croc       qfeuiremento  - Cmpucd frrn               LABOR FOREt
trgy  quivalent ,f net food oupplleu  -alebl~ie -ocutry per onpita              Total labor Foon  thu.sadt) - Foenoi-ally notice persons,  n-lodlcg nuv,d
pr doy.  A-ailable copplieo  -cpri-e dometic prtdu-ti-n, Loprte less               fortes sod unemployed bot coo ludigtoeccn  studects, one. Dcfint.,-.
econ,ud choose  ic utool . Net cuppliro ecciode scoial feed, o-do,             iovuriouccotriee  are nct ocaparahie.
q-tntlnleeused'.- fend proorsicg, sod -.onsiv .        tiuln   Requir-            fvo.e(coee) - Peone  is -r ors n  perc..cosg, of tonal lcrforce.
soIc, neo estimated by PAO booed on phyiq'ilogicl credo for noral                  grolvpcet) Labor forc  in fsrnieg, fo-tny, hening aod
ouic "ysd healthul  1.1h occderg vcir tonenotesper-t-r, todp veight,               fiohing no p-erentage of Octa 101crfce
age and se  diotribotoocs of population,  rd ell-siog IS peov-t for               btd,otry . prt-t) - Labor forc  It siing, -ot- ot-        n nufacturcg nod
sat.eat honeehoid leve.                                                             electricity, cater sod gao Ca pero-tage of Octal bor fort.
Per aIt, sopplyo   oroc        m   L., is~p) - P,cteio  -ct-e o,f per             Pavtioopation Rate oproenni - ntatl. sale  od fe e- Participatio  or
capita tot suPppy0 foo  per- .Y. let oply of food is o-i.ied as                     acticity vanes ar  computed as total, sale, end foaic lob or force no per-
uhv.-  R.quirenots fee all o-utrice ostobliehed hy USDA proide for a                -etagea cf total, sale end f-eso pepoluoion of all seen reprttvly;
_ni_e  allo__o  of60 gven  of totsI protein per Any end 20 gven  of                1960. 1970, and 1975 Oats.  These aen ILO, pertiiptio  r-te  reflecting
eninal od paLee protei, of c1hio  1  graeo   h-uld to anit. protein.                age-oe   tructure of too ppulntion, end iong time trend.  A fec estlean
Thos  stsodsrus aen 1oor than thc-  cf 75 gr-n  of total p,oteis end               are fro  eationa  -cre..
25 grn  of snitel proteio ass--aeg  for the enrld, proposed by FAQ                "g"),rC       ee   Pai  -  Ratio of ppupnot:on under 1) end 65 sodovrt
Ln the Thir~d derlOod F   orty.                                                      he in1bor force  Ic  go rop of 15-4i pears.
Per caPita ort.io lo  ply from apical sod pulse -  rotein supply cf food
derived fro  siahlo and pube  i gensp r  ay                                     rESetr DITo~mRIBTON
foiod (ae   1-) k_rtality Rote )ortcsn  ptna  ensp tthousanderPre-atene of Prvt  ncm bt                                      leah end kind) - Received by riehost
in see groop  t- ous  o  hlre   oOheae group; for ect d-vel                           5 poroent,  P,rlies't 00percet,tporest  0percent, andl poorest 0 pero-nt
opihg co-tries data derived from life tcIet                                           of houseolnds.
Lif  tortano  at 0th )ers) -uc-ragv   -b nuhro  years of life                         Outisted Aboclute Povety SnutD       ocl1  crrtP 'a cte)             " ranad rural-
res Fo tbirth;1b ,    19)70. ad 1977. iota.                                     Absoluto povety i.Ec      'Aleve  l ,ta  inoce  level           MM hel   ohlo   e iconi
Infant Mortalit Rt(rr thou"d)- A-Io deaths cf intents under coo                         atritio..ally adequate diet plo ..ce...tilnon-food requbrosentc :  -to
Year of age perN  ..oueand lice bimbo.                                                effordeble.
Access to Safe Rate  (ceent of ouaIon              tEore    ndrrlt aimated ReIantve Povert  noeLri0  per vscita) - urban end rura
Wiser  f popl   Ocal,urbn,  nd  ura) cth  easnabe aresnoRura  rolati-e povrty mos   ee   soethird of a-rage per capita
of e eter supply (includes treated curfe ots er untreated hut                         peronal incm  of the coutry. Urban level is deri-ed frot the rural Ir-e,
uncotenicted eater ouch as that frot protected  oroholen, sprigs,                      it  adjuetneot for higher cot of lvinig in urbansins
sod senitry eollc( as pe-etagc  of their repeti-e popultie.-  1c                    tonlated PpuatonDec Absout PoeteIcs                      n  )rrnet( - urban, sod
anubantares a public f-otalo yr snPpe   ectdetmrete                                  ua   -  ecntoZoulto   ubned rual  of  ar.(e 'aecun  Pecr
20   sesfo      ouse asy he ....sidoredas being cithin reasonable
aces   fthat house  in rora  -osrueable access  -cld imply
that the h-.s..if. or oeser  of the hoc..ehoid di out tars t. speed a                                                           .oosoic end Secial Pain Dicisto
djpvprtioante oso of the doay Ic fet.oblog the fsally' seater needs                                                 Zo soAnalysis and PrJecto.a Departmet
A.ugoct 1979



- 25-Pa  4 of 5
ECONOHIC DEV9tLOPF5T D4TA SIIET
jAmial averqga           1979
Actual                     tat.              Prol ectd                      aroeth rates (s)          share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978        1979       1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of COP
8ationUi Accounts (Millions
of US$ at 1975 Prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                            12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20.077   21,298    22,594    29,392               6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terma of trade adjustment          168       0    -456    -613       -70        -70      -387       -465       -262        -         -         -           -
GDY                            13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129               6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - conitant prices       3.304   4.116   4,460   4.799   5,489         5,865    6,068       6,484      8,271        8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices       3.020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592         4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade           3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464       4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129      1,510    1,604       1,586        511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                    10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861    15,646   16,393    17,262    21,421               5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Invesatent (incl. stocks)       2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963         5.822    6,176       6,552      8,524       12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743         4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410        7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domstic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537    4.807       5.227      7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Outout (millions of
C55 at 1975 erice..
Agriculture                     3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385         5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                     4,087   5.314   5,836   6.285   6,690         7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061         8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                        4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853         7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index               47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2         117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price index               44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5         119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade index            105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9          98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6       1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                           4.5      3.4      3.4     3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import alaxticlty                0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32          1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average aevings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3         23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                      25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0          29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5            29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9     7.1      6.7      4.3     6.0         7.5      7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)             -   (2 of GDP In current prices) -                 Labor Force in 1978 /c             Millio.    S
Current revenue                  12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                  Agriculture                         7.4      44.4
Tax revenue                       9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                 tIdustry                             2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                 Services                            5.6      33.0
Current surplus                   0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6     2.7               Unemployed                          1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9     3.0      3.5      3.4     4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilitias.
/b The ICOt is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
2eriod to the current Increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate ba"d on second quarter, 1978.
Eaet Asia a   Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                             Est.             Projected
1972       1975       1976       1977       1979      1979       1980      1981       1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               1,455      3,170       3,387      4,161      4,736    5,790    6,620       7,650     15,500
Of which:  exports of goods               1,136      2,294      2,574       3,151      3,425    4,260    4,900       5,700     12,100
Imports of goods and services               1,632      4,412      4,763       5,248      6,322     7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods               1,230      3,459      3,633       3,915      4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905        13,100
Transfers (net)                                188        318        269        260        312       340       370       400         600
Current Account Balance                      11       -924    -1.107         -827    -1,274   -1,780   -1.930   -2.180         -1,400
Direct investment (net)                        -22        125        144        216        163       150        150       170        250
MLT loans (net)                                140        359      1,040        662        834    1,000    1,300       1,670      1,180
Official-source loans (net)                  94         117        282        332        333       420       520       710        780
Private-source loans (net)                   46         242        758        330        501       580       780       960        400
Other capital /a                                56        -81       -238        113        233        47       100        120        170
Overall Balance lb                           94       -521       -161         164        -54      -583      -380      -200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c          551      1,358       1,640      1,525      1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130         3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total public loans                          422.0       769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD                                       29.5      114.0      226.0       317.5      533.0
IDA                                        10.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       28.0
Other multilateral                         43.3      106.0        64.2      207.3      189.2
Governments                               275.5      182.3       391.6      122.3      370.4
of which CPE                              0.0       13.2        5.9        0.0         0.0
Suppliers                                   2.0       52.5       52.0       194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                     61.7      314.6      476.4       341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                       0.0        0.0      367.2       129.7      219.2
other MLT loans                             130.0      283.0       603.6      134.8      914.0
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                 28.0        16.4        8.8       14.7       16.8
Average interest (7)                           5.4        7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Average maturity (yeors)                      17.3       16.7       13.1       15.3       15.9
Medium & Long-Term Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of
period)                                 1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                     2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                        -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                       -51.6      -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other MLT debt service                     -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                         -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
outstanding
Debt service ratio                           22.1        14.9       15.7       18.0       20.0                         December 31. 1978
Debt service ratio Id                         22.7       15.6       16.4       19.5       20.6                          Amount  Percent
Debt service/GDP                               3.8        3.0        2.9        3.7        4.0   External Debt         (US$ mln)
Public debt service/government                                                                    (disbursed only)
revenue                                    17.0        9.1         9.9       12.0       20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Bank Group /e         576    13.8
Terms                                                                                                 Other multi-
lateral             277      6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD               6.1         5.4        4.1        6.4        4.0      Governments          1,039    24.8
Total d-bt service/total DOD                  17.7       16.9       10.5       15.8       13.3      Suppliers              271      6.5
Financial
Dependency Ratios                                                                                        institutions      1,254    29.9
Bonds                 771    18.4
Gro-s disb-rseeents/iaports (GNFS)            30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7       34.3      Total public
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                   12.7        7.7        6.1        5.4        5.4        SIlT debt         4,188   100.0
Net transfer/gross disbursements             41.9        36.2       16.2       18.9       23.2      Other MLT debt    2,651       63.3
Other IILT debt
Exposure                                                                                                 (incl. un-
disbursed)        3,293     78.6
IBRD disb./grosa total diab.                  4.7         9.8        5.5        7.4        8.3      Total public
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e          4.8        10.7        6.2        7.5        8.3        debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                             7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3        8.0        andisbursed)    7,563   180.6
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                    7.8        8.6        7.8        7.8        8.4      Total MLT debt
IBRD debt service/total debt service           4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6        6.9         (incl. un-
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv./e 4.4             5.6        6.7        5.6        7.0        disbursed)       10,856   259.2
/a Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b Equals change in net international reserves.
/c Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International resaerves", IFS).
/d Includes net direct investment income.
/e Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of January 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY      Borrower                Purpose                         Bank      IDA   'Jndisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                           264.0   19.5
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage           14.3                0.8
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                               22.0                0.9
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education II                                12.7        0.0 La
939-PH   1973           "                Ports                             6.1                0.1
950-PH   1973                            Second Highways                  68.0                1.6
984-PH   1974                            Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.7
998-PH   1974                            DFC-DBP I                        50.0                4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                               61.0                3.4
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                          25.0               12.5
1048-PH   1974                            Shipping                         20.0                9.7
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                 30.0                5.4
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                   17.0                6.9
1102-PH   1975           "                Rural Development                25.0               13.6
1120-PH   1975           "                Small & Medium Industries        30.0                1.1
1154-PH   1976           "                Magat Irrigation                 42.0               19.8
1190-PH   1976           "                DFC-DPB II                       75.0                9.3
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                    25.0               14.2
1225-PH   1976                            Livestock II                     20.5                7.1
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                 50.0               37.3
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                     10.0                6.2
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                     22.0               13.6
1269-PH   1976                            Second Grain Processing          11.5               10.1
1270-PH   1976           "                Second Fisheries                 12.0                4.2
1353-PH   1977           "                Third Highways                   95.0               72.9
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                15.0                9.4
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                 25.0               16.8
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                               36.5              22.4
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  40.7
1415-PH   1977           "                Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                  18.1
1421-PH   1977           "                2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.    15.0                  13.5
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                       58.0               56.4
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming          8.0                7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC (PDCP)                          30.0               24.9
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  54.8
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.7
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                         2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification               60.0               44.6
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC-PISO                            15.0                4.8
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                        150.0              102.4
1572-PH   1978                            Industrial Investment III        80.0               60.5
1615-PH   1978                            Manila Water Supply II           88.0               87.5
1626-PH   1979           "                National Extension               35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.7
1646-PH   1979           "                Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                  15.8
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development         32.0               30.4
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                     100.0               99.8
1710-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                  16.0               16.0
920-PH   1979           "                Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH   1979                            Population II                            40.0       40.0
Total                                                               1.970.9  122.2   1.156.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                           158.5
Total now outstanding                                               1,812.4  122.2
Amount sold                                              24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       16.0            8.3     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                             1.804.1  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                   1.066.7   89.7   1.156.4
/a Balance of $43,000 to be disbursed in March 1980.



- 28 -            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of January 31, 1980
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the        15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -       4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5       -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4     1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque llining and Industrial             15.0       -     15.0
Corporation
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5         0.7      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -       3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -      2.1
1979         General Mfilling Corporation                   4.0      1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       -        0.1     0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,             33.1    12.3    45.4
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC            44.0      4.4    48.4
Total Undisbursed                              7.6      -       7.6



- 29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in addition to rice, authorized local governments and the
National Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of the long construction period for some
of the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September
30, 1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75%. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cement, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The total project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainage components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subproject is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow, and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate.
Loan No. 1154     Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge. As
of June 30, 1979, principal and interest arrears under this project had
reached about 12.7% of the portfolio. The Bank has assisted DBP with the
development of an intensive action-oriented collection program which will be
further reinforced under the proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit
Project. Thanks to government approval of increased salary scales, DBP has
significantly improved its staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's
organizational structure have been instituted and other organizational
developments are under consideration.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has improved and work is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the invest-
ment climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to
the smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand
for subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has,



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
in consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on
actions to be taken. In the meantime, DBP has forwarded to the Bank
various suggestions concerning the broadening of the project to promote
better and faster utilization of the funds. The proposals are curently
being examined.
Loan No. 1270       Second Fisheries Prolect; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34% as of August 1979. Force account work is proceeding satis-
factorily. Nine of the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has
taken over eight of them for completion by force account. With the equipment
now on hand, NIA is capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399       Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, recommendations made by the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, are
being implemented, including: the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identified
in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks to the
eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions to include
funds for domestic and foreign training of Central Bank staff; more flexible
reporting procedures; improved collection procedures; delegation of responsi-
bility for lending for power tillers to the rural banks; and revised methods
for calculating equity contributions. Repayment performance continues to be
unsatisfactory; however, causes are of a long-term sectoral nature and will be
addressed in that context. Vehicles for Central Bank field staff have been
procured, and contracts awarded for the construction of the Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center and for the Farm Mechanization Study.
Completion of the project is now expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



- 33-                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 19813
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP has recently eased the collateral terms and
application procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of govermnent
funds has delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the
Abra pine plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been
acquired. A gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although
funding could continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at
a moderate rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure: $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Design of about 70 km
of village roads has been completed, and the balance is expected to be
completed by April 1980. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations.
Diversion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 will
be ready for diversion at the end of March 1980. Excavation on the main
contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the
batching plant and in the trial embankment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will be applied first in four pilot areas which have
already been designated, to be followed by a further 12 areas by April 1980.
MOA Regional Directors have not yet been appointed; however, the names of
proposed candidates are with the President of the Philippines and a decision
is expected in early 1980. Additional staff appointments are being made but
vehicle purchases are delayed because of the current concern at the highest
level with the energy crisis. All purchases of gasoline-consuming equipment
and vehicles (except for motorcycles) are at present held in abeyance.
However, it is anticipated that the vehicles will be purchased within the
next 2 to 3 months. Funds for this purpose have been allocated in the 1980
budget and vehicle suppliers have been pre-qualified.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 35 -                        ANX1
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures. The trend in imple-
mentation is improving, although progress will be slower than expected in the
foreseeable future.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1. 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1. 1980; Closing Date: June 30. 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939      Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness:  December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950      Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12. 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been largely overcome. Further major
problems are not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by
March 1980, except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for
completion around August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years,



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
with a new Closing Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated
at about $189 million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal
estimate, due primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have
been experienced throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed and a further 25%
committed. Loan applications covering the balance of uncommitted funds
are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 27% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of
them before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road
maintenance and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress.
All 28 workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of
them, awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisers to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisers to MPH will complete their work by March 1980.
Overall project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates,
but project completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24
months later than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late
start of some critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution
of some of the road construction contracts.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
underway, utilizing new procedures agreed during loan negotiations.
Proposals for the technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD have been received
from the short-listed consulting firms and evaluation is in process. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is being prepared. Preparatory work for the
continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs begun
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is scheduled to begin within
three months. Selection of technical assistance and consultants to MPWTC
for the continuation of the transport planning advisory services, begun
under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in process. Land acqui-
sition for road construction and workshops is under way. Prequalification
for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224      Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to
manage book development, production, and distribution for public elementary
and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 66% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates, but disbursements are about
41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the implementation delays.



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project implementa-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T   M4anila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure
and 1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services com-
ponent are complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have been
designed and contracts tendered with Package I amended and Package II await-
ing Presidential approval. The project is generally progressing satisfac-
torily with many initial difficulties overcome and lessons learned which
should hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
M4ay 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Well drilling activities are in progress in five Water Districts,
and bids are being evaluated for distribution networks, pumping stations and
reservoirs. The scope of subprojects was revised by LWUA and approved by



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
communities in public hearings. Difficulties in contracting local firms for
drilling have resulted in delays in the preparation of feasibility studies
in remote areas. LWUA has been requested to present a plan for assistance
to Water Districts in institution-building, and proposing so ;¶tions to the
scarcity of local well drilling contractors, including the possibility of
international bidding.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met. A
tariff increase of 60% was implemented in October, 1978, and MWSS met the 2%
rate of return required for 1979. However, it apepars that they will not be
able to meet the 5% rate of return covenanted for 1980 since the
implementation of an additional tariff increase of 25 centavos, scheduled
for October 1979, has been postponed (because of the overall impact of
inflationary pressures resulting from recent oil price increases) and the
completion of the treatment plant is behind schedule.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power: $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
($92 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project: $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Procurement has been slow, with the result that disbursements have
been behind schedule. Although the Bank waived the 8% rate of return
requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of return of 7% and expected to
achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant previously owned and operated by
Meralco. It is unlikely that NPC achieved an 8% rate of return in 1979
since costs, especially of fuel, were higher than forecast. Plans for
establishing a training center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have
been deferred.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547     Rural Electrification: $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978: Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late
1979 following receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are
expected before June 1980. NEA's financial performance and position in 1977
and 1978 was good, and steps are being taken by NEA to strengthen its
monitoring of the financial performance of the cooperatives, especially
their compliance with the Government's financial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998      Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12. 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been used by
DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052     Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7. 1975: Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development: $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975: Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of $2.3 million has
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds from this loan for small and medium
industries, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed
on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower
than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a
whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed
by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of January 31, 1980 commitments
under the loan amounted to $12.6 million. The project progress is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of January 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.2 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978: Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to $45.8 million as of January 31, 1980. In addition, as of the
same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 43 -                          ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, '983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose
$24.5 million was provided under the loan. Loan utilization is expected to
begin soon. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30. 1980
As of October 1979, 186 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 28 were under construction and 5 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 90% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart
funds. While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and
reallocation of funds it is likely that there will be a six-to twelve-
month delay in project completion.  Following the disbanding on December 31,
1979, of the administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was
appointed for both this and the second project.  This action is expected to
speed up significantly the completion of this first project. In January
1979 the project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and
equipment for service delivery; training; information, education and
communication campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second
population project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The
total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly
to price increases not materializing as forecast. The management situation
in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional
analysis of the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of
this study, if implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care
delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30. 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
tation started on January 1, 1980 when funds were made available from MOH and
POPCOM. Preparatory arrangements for training components of the project are
proceeding satisfactorily, and information, education and communications
activities are being developed successfully at POPCOM and MOH. The 1980
work plan has been reviewed and found satisfactory. Generally, overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 44-                               ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT (ILOILO) PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 9 months
(b) Project prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture and World Bank
(c) First presentation to the Bank, and first Bank mission to
consider the project: March and November 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 13, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank mission would visit Manila and Iloilo province in the fall
of 1980 to review progress in project implementation, paying particular
attention to: (a) status of the appointment of the Regional Director of Agri-
culture for the Western Visayas, and implications for the effectiveness of
the Project Management Committee and Project Management Unit; (b) avail-
ability of short-and medium-term agricultural credit in the project area; (c)
work programs for implementation of the water impounding component; (d)
work programs and sites for installation of equipment and construction of
building for grain storage and shipment facility; and (e) final design and
imlementation plans for the pilot village development component.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Government is to:
(a) Appoint, by June 30, 1980, a Project Training Coordinator under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 56).
(b) Furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1980, a detailed plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the pilot
village development program (para. 56).
(c) Provide adequate compensation for residents who are required to
relocate or surrender land as a result of the water impounding dams
and reservoirs (para. 57).



- 45 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Formalize, no later than September 30, 1980, arrangements concerning
the cooperation between the National Irrigation Administration, the
Farm Systems Development Corporation and the Bureau of Soils of the
Mi Lstry of Agriculture for implementation of the water impounding
schemes (para. 57).
(e) Cause to be furnished to the Bank for review, prior to
implementation, full evaluation reports for water impounding
schemes costing P 900,000 or more, and summary data forms for
the remaining schemes (para. 57).
(f) Appoint, no later than June 30, 1980, a Monitoring and Research
Officer, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; design,
no later than November 30, 1980, a monitoring system to meet the
specific needs of the project; and implement the system no later
than January 31, 1981 (para. 64).
2.        As conditions of effectiveness, the Government is to:
(a) Appoint, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a
Project Manager and establish a Project Management Committee and
an Interagency Project Coordinating Committee (paras. 54-56).
(b) Finalize and initiate application of detailed national policies
and guidelines for implementation of small water impounding schemes
to be constructed in the Philippines (para. 57).
3.        Retroactive financing of up to $200,000 would be provided to cover
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980 for the project's management,
extension services, crop trials, training, water impounding and nutrition
activities (para. 63).






IBRD 14461
, ,       PH-IIUP Pi NES                                                  1M22 30'  \;   ;; 0 0  0 0   2 50 \ 0   \t                     &                           l:i.t                                             AUGUST 1979
AJZ /IUON)          *XAIF /C       |\Rt>S\ >                                                                                                                                              _g/
3P A cA-j 
gi  I$SbAg0  e A                                              iIVA                                                                                                                          aJ
-    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~1 -3 0                                         -
5BA~~Q~~  AA AlAl
P   A !N    A    Y                                           I   S   L   A    N   D
<j/9Atr AN       itG       -g >                                        /                                      C    A    P  I  Z
S, 5-WXCv                                               .< 
0'r ' 9 ~ ~¢i_ s i 'iD  PROVtNCE-OF   ILOILO  i  03
IAMBI      ~A                      T  I Q                                                                                                                                                    A PHLIPIE
PROVINCE OF ILOILO                                    OI
Rainfed Agriculturct Development Project
______  rovnc~L rod~  oe, ygra1rs  oo improvement
f          A                                                                                                             ----- B o    e  brongoy roads - ne., .Pgrodlng or imrprovemtent
/                                                                                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Water impou,ndinlg dam sites
I                                                                                                                                                                            ®   Wpstere V+ovas .eperer4 , ,     v  s
Li Excisrirsg BPI / IRR I outreach station
LA Propos,ed BPI/ tRRI o0treach station
eo,D                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Livestock market vexsting or unde, con5truction
Tub-g                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arec' marketing coopiercitives
/a=Sar>Joa~ ~qu                                                                                                                                        1II.  r  sOMUEIeS 0        10             20              30
g   f      ,                                                                      f<Valinclv    /)< SJCJ0gb.,                                                                                                         e
Pa nay   Gu(f~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            kxia
:   122'0O':J               :             |      t2 ,:0'  /              / l \)    110':                                              122;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Povncal  oudaie
Panay  Ofilf                                                                              M~~N.. VI.cg                 o..w  uI,tt          W_rB9   upr,f k.  o-"I  ,r
12200                                                                               2                                                                                    t2r00'



