J. t         LOANNUMBER 1815 PH
Loan Agreement
(Rainfed Agricultural Development (Iloilo) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     Mfl                     , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1815 Pi
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  /na re-4   c2             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were ful.y set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Iloilo Project Area" means those parts of the Iloilo
Province, mainly in the non-irrigated lowlands, in which the
Project is to be carried out;
(b) "Irrigation Service Association" means an association
of farmers in a communal irrigation system, registered in accor-
dance with Presidential Decrees Nos. 681 and 1595 of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "Letter of Instruction" means the Letter of Instruction
No. 898 of the Borrower; and
(d) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan,
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-


﻿-3-
tural, health and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, -acilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, as and when
required, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes tc insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-4-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, whenever necessary, make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, including the provision
of adequate and prompt compensation, to assist the residents of
the Iloilo Project Area who are required to relocate or relin-
quish their rights to land for the purpose of carrying out the
Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish, or cause to
be established with composition and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank:
(i) a Project Coordinating Committee and a Project Secre-
tariat for the coordination of Project implementation at the
national level; and
(ii) a Project Management Committee and a Project Management
Unit for the coordination, administration, support, monitoring and
evaluation of Project implementation in the Iloilo Project Area.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint a Project Manager, and
maintain in that position, a person whose qualifications, experi-
ence, and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) by June 30, 1980, appoint a Training Coordinator, and a
Monitoring and Research Officer, whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the
Bank;


﻿-5-
(b) by November 30, 1980, complete the design of a Project
monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) by January 31, 1981, begin to implement the said
Project monitoring and evaluation system.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause to be completed
by September 30, 1980, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the cooperation with respect to the implementation of Part
C of the Project, between the National Irrigation Administration,
the Farm Systems Development Corporation and the Bureau of Soils
of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980,
furnish to the Bank a detailed plan satisfactory to the Bank,
for the implementation of Part G.2 of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) prior t the implemen-
tation of any water impounding dam to be constructed under Part C
of the Project which is estimated to cost the equivalent of
900,000 Pesos or more, furnish to the Bank for its review an
evaluation report for such system, and (ii) furnish to the Bank
summary data forms for the other systems.
Section 3.12. The Borrower undertakes to grant necessary
water rights for each water impounding dam to be constructed under
the Project to the relevant Irrigation Service Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will i2so facto equally and ratably, and at
no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any


﻿-6-
such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the f ore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Ministries or Agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Categories (1) (b), (3) (c) and (4) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in Category (1)
(a) thereof with regard to contracts each with a cost of the
equivalent of $50,300 or less, on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to examine such records.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Ministries and
Agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) with respect to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the National Food and
Agriculture Council, with regard to research and trials under the
Project, to consult with the Bank concerning the formulation of
programs.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in the Project to be operated and maintained
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural policies and practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limiting the generality of sub-Section (a)
hereinabove, the Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank cause the dams and related structures constructed under
the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of
the same, which may endanger their-safety. To this end, the
Borrower shall propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for
the Bank's review no later than one year before the expected
completion of such structures.


﻿-8-
Agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, to appoint competent staff in adequate numbers in
accordance with a staffing program satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordinating Committee and the Project
Management Committee referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this
Agreement, have been established;
(b) the Project Manager referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of
this Agreement, has been appointed; and
(c) detailed policies and implementing guidelines for the
Letter of Instruction have been issued and are in force.
Section 5.02. The dateTa"e t2 b  / ?         , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CBP-PH
Manila                              0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction arl Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (-CA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By/ caar Vrevv2-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
1fda  Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                   3,800,000       75%
(a) contract
(b) force account
(2) Equipment, mate-               3,900,000
rials, supplies
and vehicles:
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                  .100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured                                  75%
locally
(3) Technical assistance:         1,600,000
(a) Consultants'                              100%
services
(b) overseas fellow-                          100% of foreign
ships                                    expenditures
(c) local training                            75%
and surveys


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Incremental staff            1,000,000        50%
salaries
(5) Unallocated                  1,700,000
TOTAL        12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1980.


﻿12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages .set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the pro-
motion of agricultural production and improvement of agricultural
marketing and nutrition, and consists of the following:
Iloilo Project Area
Part A:   Agricultural Production Services
(1) Introduction    of improved agricultural production
methods, promotion of livestock production, and animal
health, through the provision of staff support, vehi-
cles, facilities, supplies, equipment and breeding
stock for the agricultural and livestock extension
services.
(2) (a) Improvement of seed quality, production and market-
ing through provision of credit for the construc-
tion of seed processing and storage facilities, and
purchase and production of quality seed.
(b) Improvement of seed testing facilities and
strengthening of seed inspection staff.
Part B:   Adaptive Trials
Improvement of cropping methods through the provision of
staff support, vehicles, supplies and equipment for adaptive trial
work.
Part C:   Water Impounding Schemes
Construction of about 40 small earthen dams together with
related irrigation and drainage infrastructure and a small pilot
program for watershed soil conservation.
Part D:   Grains Storage and Shipment Facility
Construction of one grains storage and shipment facility and
provision of related equipment.


﻿-14 -
Part E:   Human Nutrition
Prevention of anemia and control of diarrhea through the
provision of staff support, vehicles, supplies and equipment, and
the dissemination of relevant information.
Part F:   Project Management Support
Establishment of a Project Coordinating Committee, Project
Secretariat, Project Management Committee and Project Management
Unit; and strengthening of the institutions at the Regional
and the Provincial level involved in the implementation of the
Project; through the provision of staff support, vehicles, sup-
plies, equipment and office facilities.
Part G:   Training
(1) Establishment of a residential facility for provincial
level training; training of staff of rural development
agencies, community leaders, farmers and farm family
members related to the implementation of the Project;
and provision of fellowships.
(2)  Introduction of a pilot scheme, to test and evaluate an
approach to comprehensive village development involving
education and training.
National
Part H:   Future Projects Preparation
Preparation of future rainfed agricultural development
projects.
Part I:   Adaptive Trials
Improvement of cropping methods through adaptive trial
work.
Part J:   Project Preparation Capability
Strengthening the planning and project preparation capability
of the Bureau of Soils in the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1985
through   May 1, 2000                        400,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.50%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                       4.55%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                       6.60%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, go.ds shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March-
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, equipment, materials, supplies and
vehicles shall be grouped to the extent practicable in such
a manner as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in the Philippines equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph   3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other


﻿- 19 -
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group   C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Any item of equipment, materials, supplies and vehicles with
a cost not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 each, may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for such items shall not exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
2.   Civil works may be carried out either (a) under force account,
or (b) by contracts awarded under the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for Part C of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and with respect to all
other contracts under the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for


﻿- 20 -
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other. information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     LX   day of 4UAA , 198 I0.
FOR SECRETARY


