RETUrThN TO
REPO)RTS DESKi
WITHINriLL
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PTR-llla
APPRAISAL OF
A RAILWAY PROJECT
BOLIVIA
November 15, 1972
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit       = Pesos ($b)
$b 1.00             = US$0.08
US$1.00             = $b 12.0
$b 1.0 million      - US$83,000
Weights and Measures:
Metric System
Metric                  US Units
1 kilometer (km)   = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)         = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)         = 0.22 imp. gallons
- o.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)    = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton               = 2,205 pounds
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abreviations and Acronyms
ALALO         - Latin America Free Trade Association
COMI3OL       - Government Mining Conpany
CONAVI        - National Housing Council
tfJM          - Daniel, Mann, Johnson & Mendenhall-
Consulting Firm, Los Angeles (USA)
ENFE          - National Railway Enterprise of Bolivia, Bolivian Railways
IDB           - Interamerican Development Bank
MTCCA         - Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aviation
SOFRERAIL     - Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisations Ferroviaires -
Consulting Firm, Paris (France)
UNDP          - United Nations Development Program
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development
YPFB          - Yacimzientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Note
Under the Government's "-tabilization and Development Plan", the Bolivian
peso was devalued to $b 20.0 per U.S. dollar on October 27, 1972. The effect
of the devaluation, and of related measures, including a wage increase, has
not been reflected in the financial figures quoted in this report.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............*..***                             i
1.   INTRODUCTION ..................  ............................. 
2.   BACKGROUND ..........*.*.**** *          ...........................      2
A.   Geneial ........2*....* *          ..........................*      2
B.   The Transport Sector ...                    .                       3
C.   Transport Investment Planning and Coordination ......               4
3.   THE NATIONAL RAILWAY ENTERPRISE OF BOLIVIA (ENFE) .........               5
A.   General ..... *.............  .... *. ......    ........ ..         5
B.   Organization and Management .........................               5
C.   Staff .........................            6............... .       6
D.   Railway Property ....                    ..........  ........       6
E.   New Lines ............................                  ...         6
F.   Traffic and Operations .........................7...                7
4.   TlE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT ......................                8
A.   The Plan ............................... ***.O....*..*              8
B.   The Project and the Credit ...........*.........O.....             10
C.   Financing of the Project ...................        .........      11
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and
Disbursement .............................................      11
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ............. ........... ..........    12
A.   General .......   .. .........*..                          .       12
B.   Economic Benefits of the Plan ....... ..........                   12
C.   Sensitivity Analysis o.................o . .........               13
D.   Improvement of the Oruro-Cochabamba Line ....... *.*..             13
E.   Dieselization ...          .............  ...... . *............... .  14
F.   Uneconomic Lines .. *   .... .... ......................    14
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Blumstein
(railway engineer), F. Chapman (financial analyst) and J. Mtartinez and
A. Mates (economists).



Table of Contents - continued
Page No.
6.   FINANCES .............. ..............  ,.           ..*.       14
A.   Introduction                        ..................  ,. 14
B.   Present Financial Position ..........................    15
C.   Tariffs and Costs                      .                   16
D.   Past and Future Earnings                  .                 17
E.   Financial Targets ..00................... I                ,,.,*, 19
F.   The Financing Plan .......................        ,...     20
G.   Budgets, Accounts and Audit                        ..*,  22
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ****qese........  .qo    23
ANNEXES
1.   Traffic Density Chart
2.   Railway Costs and Revenues
3.  MIarginal Cost of Road Transport
4.   Organization Chart of ENFE
5.   Time-Phased Action Programs
6.   Brief Description of Railway Property
7.   New Lines Under Construction or Proposed
8.   Freight Traffic 1969-1977
9.   Macro-Economic Model for Forecasting Traffic on the Western System
10.   Passenger Traffic 1965-1977
11.   Selected Operating Statistics
12.   Scope of Phase II Technical Assistance Services to ENFE
13.   1973-1977 Investment Plan
14.   Main Items of the 1973-1977 Investment Plan
15.   Disbursement Schedule
16.   Economic Costs with and without the Investment Plan
17.   Summary Balance Sheets (West and Eagt Lines) 1965-1971
18.   Cash Flow
19.   Operating Accounts 1966-1971 (West and East Liqoe)
20.   Income Projections 1973-1977 (West and East Lines)
21.   Forecast Summary Balance Sheets 1972-1977
MAP
Bolivian Railways - IBRD 3716



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
l.        This report appraises a project consisting of the first stage
(1973-1974) of a plan for the technical and financial rehabilitation of the
National Railway Enterprise of Bolivia (ENFE). The objectives of the plan
are to enable the railways to fulfill their essential role in the economy
and to establish ENFE's financial and technical viability. The proposed
credit of US$8 million equivalent would be the first credit to Bolivia for
development of its transport infrastructure (a Bank Loan 635-BO of US$23.25
million was made in 1971 for a gas pipeline).
ii.       Transportation in Bolivia has developed piecemeal and in an uncoor-
dinated manner. The railways were established in the west by various enter-
prises to transport mining products to Pacific ports for export. The east,
with Santa Cruz as its commercial center, has only recently been connected to
the Argentine and Brazilian railways. The only rail connection between the
east and west Bolivian railway systems is by a 600-km detour through Argentina.
The highway system, while connecting major cities in the west and providing
the only land link in Bolivia between west and east, has no adequate connec-
tion with any ports. Thus, for export and import freight traffic, the rail-
ways are an essential transportation link for the Bolivian economy.
iii.      Highway competition for internal traffic has grown considerably over
recent years; in face of this, ENFE's tariffs have changed little since 1959,
and the railways' revenues per ton-km have, in real terms, deteriorated. Com-
pounded by rising costs and poor operating performance, ENFE's annual cash
deficits rose to almost US$4 million equivalent in 1971, only partly covered
by Government subvention, leading to a steady erosion of ENFE's financial
condition. The shortfalls in Government subventions reflect the difficult
situation of Government finances; thus, the provision of adequate local
currency funds for ENFE over the project period and, on a declining scale,
over the remainder of the plan, will be crucial for ENFE's rehabilitation.
iv.       ENFE has combined virtually all the difficulties frequently encount-
ered in many of our railway projects: poor operations with a low traffic density,
poorly maintained and over-aged equipment, lack of experienced management and
a low standard of staff training, lack of commercial policy, an inadequate
level and structure of tariffs, uneconomic lines and services, and excess
staff. All of these factors have led to a difficult financial situation,
aggravated in the past by inadequate financial assistance from the Government.
v.        The project forms the first part of ENFE's Five-Year Investment Plan,
1973-1977, which, together with interrelated and most essential action programs,
is designed to carry out the physical rehabilitation of ENFE's equipment and im-
prove its management, operations and finances. The equipment and works to be



- ii -
financed by the proposed IDA credit are, in conjunction with technical assis-
tance financed by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), an essential
first step, leading to full dieselization and to better use of existing and
new facilities. They include freight cars to replace over-aged, small capac-
ity cars, rail tractors to replace large locomotives for shunting operations,
diesel rail cars to carry increased passenger traffic, spares and components
to rehabilitate and improve diesel locomotives and rolling stock, modernization
of workshops and the carrying out of essential track works and improvements to
structures and telecommunications. The project includes all works to be com-
mitted in the years 1973-1974, at a total estimated cost of about US$11.6 mil-
lion equivalent. The proposed IDA credit of US$8 million equivalent would
cover the cost of the foreign exchange component of all works and would provide
US$0.8 million toward the local currency costs of essential track materials.
In order to secure the maximum benefits from the rehabilitation and moderniza-
tion program, ENFE will need continued technical assistance. The UNDP has
agreed to provide about US$1 million to help finance this assistance.
vi.       The appraisal has established that continuation of railway service
is vital to the economy and has identified means of fulfilling this role by
enabling ENFE to become more efficient in its management and operations and
to improve its finances.
viii      On a conservative basis, the economic rate of return on the total in-
vestment in rehabilitation, dieselization and modernization is estimated at 21%,
The financial benefits will also be substantial and it should be possible for
ENFE to become financially viable by about 1978. Due to accounting deficien-
cies, including the absence of a realistic valuation of fixed assets, it is not
possible to determine a rate of return on net fixed assets. The achievement of
working and operating ratios of about 79% and 92% respectively by 1977, which
would almost eliminate ENFE's reliance on Government for financial support,
is considered to be an appropriate target for future financial performance.
viii.     The recovery of ENFE will take many years and the success of the Plan
will depend on (a) strong financial and political support from the Government,
(b) the ability of ENFE's management to carry out successfully the various time-
phased plans of action and (c) ENFE's traffic increasing as forecast. In view
of the strong resolve to support ENFE expressed by the present and previous Gov-
ernments and of the considerable measure of technical support being given to
ENFE's management under the UNDP financed project, the chances of success are
reasonable provided the future brings no radical change in policies. Traffic
prospects are difficult to assess in view of the heavy reliance on exports and
imports, which vary with world trade conditions, and on domestic agricultural
production; the forecasts are the best estimates in the light of present
conditions, but the possibility of variations (both upwards and downwards)
must always be recognized.
ix.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit to Bolivia of US$8 million
equivalent, to be made available to ENFE at 7-1/4% interest for a term of 25
years, including a five-year period of grace.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Bolivia and the National Railway
Enterprise of Bolivia (ENFE) have asked the Bank Group for assistance in the
financing of the 1973-1977 Investment and Rehabilitation Plan for the Railways,
prepared by ENFE with the assistance of SOFRERAIL 1/, a French consulting firm.
The proposed five-year investment is estimated at US$37 million equivalent.
Investments during the first two years are estimated at $b 139 million (US$11.6
million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$8 million, includ-
ing US$1 million for technical assistance which is expected to be financed by
a grant from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
1.02      Since its creation in 1964, ENFE has faced severe financial and mana-
gerial problems, aggravated by Government and labor interference. Although it
manages the majority of railway operations and has a virtual monopoly on many
routes, ENFE has been unable to integrate and rationalize operations or to ful-
fill satisfactorily the important role that railways should play in Bolivia.
The proposed project is a three-fold approach to solving these problems:
(a) investment to rehabilitate the railways' equipment and facilities; (b) im-
provement in operations, carrying of more traffic and reduction in unit costs;
and (c) training of railway personnel (both labor and supervisors) through
the implementation of sound railway management programs. Scarcity of resources
in Bolivia has long been a problem, particularly affecting ENFE in that Govern-
ment has not been able to supply needed finances (para. 6.01). In 1970, Govern-
ment enterprises accounted for about $b 205 million of the $b 700 million over-
all Government deficit; this included $b 38 million for ENFE (working loss
plus debt service), against which Government provided only $b 20 million.
During the first two years (1973-1974) of ENFE's Plan, the local currency
requirements for investment, operations, debt service and working capital
(including funds for retirement benefits) amount to $b 100 million (US$8
million equivalent), a significant sum in the Bolivian context. Apart from
financing the foreign exchange requirements for the first two years, the
proposed credit can contribute US$0.8 million toward local financing.
1.03      An overall transport survey 2/ of Bolivia was completed in 1969, fi-
nanced by the UNDP with the Bank as executing agency. The study proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the next ten years. In
early 1969, the UNDP agreed to finance consultants to assist ENFE personnel
in the implementation of modern operational and administrative methods and
in the planning of future investments. The consultants, SOFRERAIL, who were
1/   SOFRERAIL:  Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisations Ferroviaires.
2/   Bolivia Transport Survey, prepared by Daniel, Mann, Johnson and Mendenhall,
the Stanford Research Institute, and Alan M. Voorhees and Associates, Inc.
during the period March 1967-July 1969.



- 2 -
selected and began work in October 1970 with the Bank as the executing agency,
have established an excellent working relationship with ENFE management and
the labor unions, and are successfully completing their terms of reference.
Their present contract was extended to September 30, 1972. A request made by
the Government for a further extension of their services has been accepted
by the UNDP.
1.04      Except for helping to finance a gas pipeline in 1971 (Loan 635-B0,
US$23.25 million), the Bank Group has not yet lent to the transportation sec-
tor of Bolivia. In the past, USAID has financed highways. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) has been requested to finance the Oruro-Cochabamba high-
way and has recently lent US$530,000 for a feasibility study.
1.05      This report is based on (a) the five-year Investment and Rehabilita-
tion Plan, 1973-1977, prepared by ENFE with the assistance of SOFRERAIL, and
updated in agreement with the Association; (b) data supplied by the Government
of Bolivia; (c) findings of an appraisal mission in September/October 1971
comprising Messrs. J. Blumstein (railway engineer), F. Chapman (financial
analyst) and J. Martinez and A. Mates (economists); and (d) further updating
by brief missions to Bolivia in January and February 1972 and by a Bolivian
delegation to Washington in October 1972.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Bolivia has a land area of about one million square km and a pop-
ulation of 5.0 million. It is a landlocked country, with only sparse settle-
ments in the tropical plains that constitute two-thirds of its territory; it
is more heavily populated in the barren and mountainous southwest. The need
to open the rich eastern plains to migration while maintaining the existing
communication links among the highland cities poses a difficult transport
problem.
2.02      Between 1964 and 1968, GDP grew, in real terms, at an annual rate of
7%, slowing down to some 5% in 1969 and 4% in 1970 because of a decline in
overall investment activity. The economy is now expected to grow by about
6% annually during 1973-1977. The forecast growth will be concentrated in
commodities produced mostly in the eastern plains, as well as in mineral
exports. Little growth is forecast for the highlands. A detailed discussion
of general economic conditions and outlook is contained in the most recent
economic report on Bolivia, No. WH213(a), dated November 9, 1972.



-3-
B.   The Transport Sector
(i) General
2.03      The railways of western Bolivia (2,302 km), built in the late 19th
and early 20th centuries, were developed largely in response to the needs of
the mining industry; their routes were selected to provide the most direct
and least expensive transport from the mines to Pacific ports. Most of the
lines were built with private capital backed by Government guarantees. The
railways of eastern Bolivia were built in the early 1960's as a means of de-
veloping the Santa Cruz region and providing it with connections to Atlantic
ports. In addition to the railways administered by ENFE are the Guaqui-La Paz
line (96 km), operated by the Peruvian Corporation (para 2.07), and the
Machacamarca-Uncia line (105 km), operated by the Government mining company,
COMIBOL.
2.04      The present highway system, almost entirely confined to the south-
western third of the country and connecting the major cities through extremely
difficult mountainous terrain, consists of 4,000 km of primary roads, of which
only 800 km are paved; 2,700 km of secondary roads; and over 12,000 km of ter-
tiary roads. A tentative 1970-1979 Highway Plan envisages the construction of
3,600 km of new roads together with the improvement of 2,600 km of existing
roads and an improved road maintenance program.
2.05      Inland waterways are no more than a series of isolated systems with
primitive facilities and slight traffic. Petroleum pipelines transport all
crude oil for Bolivian refineries and for export. A 530-km gas pipeline to
the Argentine border, partially financed by the Bank, was completed and placed
in operation in 1972. Air passenger transport plays an important role because
of the rugged geography of the mountainous region and the lack of other means
of communication in most of the plains. Air services link La Paz and Santa
Cruz with neighboring countries.
(ii) Role of Railways in the Transport Sector: Present and Future
2.06      The meter gauge railway system administered by ENFE, about 2,100 km
in the west and about 1,200 km in the east, is the only mode of transport in
several areas. Traffic density is low on many of ENFE's routes, as illustra-
ted in Annex 1. The major freight traffic flows are between La Paz and Charana
(then going on to the port of Arica), La Paz-Oruro-Uyuni and Oruro-Cochabamba.
All other lines are of very low density.
2.07      In the west, the railway provides an access to several ports:
Matarani in Peru, Arica and Antofagasta in Chile, and Argentine ports via
Villazon. The access to Matarani is via the Peruvian Corporation standard
gauge line, with trans-shipments on to steamer services over Lake Titicaca;
there is only an unpaved mountain road to Matarani. In 1969, over 55% of all
traffic on the Western System consisted of exports or imports, including 90%
of all mineral transportation, representing about 80% of the total value of
exports from Bolivia.



- 4 -
2.08      Most new exports (cotton, timber, fruits) are expected to be gener-
ated in the east, where the railway is the only mode of transport to Argentina
and Brazil and to Atlantic ports. In )971, over 70% of all traffic by rail
in the east was export/import traffic. This percentage is expected to rise to
at least 75% by 1977, with exports of timber and cotton accounting for 47% of
the total traffic. The high cost of road construction assures that the rail--
ways' monopoly for transport in this area is likely to continue for many years.
2.09      The crucial element in the analysis of the role of the railways is
the cost of transportation. Comparisons of marginal costs by road in the wiest
(excluding road infrastructure) with those by railway show that road costs are
considerably higher for freight and also for most passenger services (Annexes
2 and 3). Although shippers consider other elements, particularly quality of ser-
vice, analysis of ENFE's freight traffic shows that a large proportion consists of
bulky, relatively low value products, with long hauls, for which transportation
cost is a prime factor. The conclusion is that the railway systeF, plays an
important role in transportation in Bolivia, and should be given assistaace
in improving its services and operations, thus promoting the overall economy.
C.   Transport Investment Planning and Coordination
2.10      Much of the present transport system grew in response to the need
to export western mineral products. Some transportation facilities have been
and are being built without adequate economic justification, in the hope that
once completed they will generate sufficient traffic (para 3.10 and Annex 7).
Also, the 1969 Transport Survey concluded that, except for pipelines, the
economic costs of providing transport services are not covered by collected
user charges, due not only to inadequate charges but also to evasions of them.
The poor quality of the statistics available precludes an accurate estimation
of the real subsidy provided by the Government to the various transport modes.
A detailed user charges study is necessary to determine the appropriate level
of charges for each mode. Given the fiscal limitations, and the high cost of
road and rail building in Bolivia, transport coordination must play an important
part in the allocation of scarce economic resources.
2.11      Under the new Administrative Reorganization Law (September 1972),
the Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aviation (MTCCA) has been
made responsible for formulating, directing and executing the transport policy.
It will, therefore, receive the proposals of the various transport agencies
and will develop, evaluate and adjust them to the transport sector require-
ments. The Government proposes to augment the staff in this ministry to
undertake the required studies and to prepare investment programs. Technical
assistance is expected to be provided for this by the UNDP. The investment
proposals of the MTCCA will be finally reviewed by a National Economic and
Planning Council to determine the level of investment in light of national
priorities.



3. THE NATIONAL RAILWAY ENTERPRISE OF BOLIVIA (ENFE)
A.   General
3.01      ENFE was created in 1964 to take over (a) the former British owned
97Bolivia Railway Company" (BRC) main trunk lines of the Western System (1,199
km) and (b) the Government branch lines (992 km) radiating from the BRC lines.
In 1967, the Eastern Lines, completed in 1964, were also transferred to ENFE
and operated as the Eastern System. The only rail connection between the two
systems is via a 600-km detour through Argentina, over the Belgrano railway.
B.   Organization and Management
3.02      The National Directorate of Railways, under the Ministry of Trans-
port and Communications, has final technical, financial, regulatory and ad-
ministrative control of railways.
3.03      A new Enterprise Law defining the functions, organization and re-
sponsibilities of ENFE became effective on July 31, 1970. The membership of
the ENFE board and the senior management organization are shown in Annex 4.
The board, with the Minister of Transport as Chairman, has six members:
three Government, two labor representatives and the General Manager of ENFE
(non-voting). The General Manager, appointed by the President of Bolivia,
acts as chief executive and refers most policy decisions to the board. The
autonomy of ENFE is satisfactory and no major changes in ENFE's organization
are necessary. Agreement was reached during negotiations that amendments to
the Enterprise Law would be made only after prior approval by the Association.
Action programs have been prepared to carry out essential improvements in com-
mercial operations, planning, personnel management and unification of proce-
dures between the Western and Eastern Systems (Annex 5). Full implementation
of these time-phased programs, which also cover improvements to operations
and maintenance facilities, rehabilitation of track and equipment, staff re-
ductions and redeployment, and financial targets, is a vital element of ENFE's
recovery plan, and was agreed upon during negotiations.
3.04      Largely as a result of action by the unions, about 100 senior staff
were retired in 1970 under a reorganization scheme. Thi3 left a serious gap,
filled only partially by inexperienced and poorly trained personnel. Technical
assistance to train and provide support for management staff as well as at the
working level has been planned as an important part of the project. The re-
habilitation program has been fully explained to the workers by the railway
management and the consultants, and the cooperation of the unions has appar-
ently been won.
3.05      The General Manager is capable but has lacked support from good quality
trained and experienced senior staff. Much of his time has been devoted to per-
sonnel problems, including the timely provision of funds for salaries. Imple-
mentation of the rehabilitation plan is a full-time job, and it was agreed
during negotiations that a senior officer would be appointed to be solely re-
sponsible for this task.



-6-
C.   Staff
3.06      The number of employees on ENFE's West Lines decreased from 6,805
in 1957 to 5,614 in 1962, and 5,200 in 1971. The combined West and East
Lines had a total of approximately 6,250 permanent employees in mid-1972.
This figure is still excessive, but it includes about 900 waiting to be retired
because of age, illness or partial disabilities. As agreed during negotiations,
the total will progressively decline by attrition to a more satisfactory level
of 5,500 by 1977 (Annex 5, Section C).
3.07      In addition to a pension from the Caja Social Ferroviaria, an employee
on retirement receives from ENFE a lump sum ("indemnizacion") consisting of (a)
one month's pay for each year of service plus (b) three months' pay. Shortage
of funds to Day the lump sums prevents ENFE from retiring staff.
3.08      Salaries for management and professional staff, scaled down from the
salary of the General Manager, which by law cannot be higher than that of a
Minister of State, appear to be competitive with those of other Government-
owned enterprises or agencies. The salary structure for non-menagerial and
non-professional employees remains a chaotic mix of the salary systems of the
railways that were merged into ENFE. The basic salaries have not changed
since 1958. A National Commission consisting of six representatives -- two
Government, two ENFE and two labor -- has been created to formulate a new ra-
tional wage structure. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a re-
vised salary structure would be prepared and submitted to the Association by
December 1973, and that the new structure would be implemented in consultation
with the Association.
D.   Railway Property
3.09      ENFE's track and structures would be adequate if essential renewals
of material were carried out, particularly sleepers, track fittings and some
rails, together with strengthening of some wooden bridges; however, rolling
stock and equipment are in very poor condition. A brief description of the
property is given in Annex 6.
E.   New Lines
3.10      Annex 7 gives details of new lines under construction or being pro-
posed. An Argentine/Bolivian joint coLmnission, which constructed the Yacuiba-
Santa Cruz line, has been building a 310-km extension northward from Santa
Cruz to Puerto Mamore. This extension has not been justified economically
and is likely to operate at a loss for many years. A further 140-km extension
to Trinidad is now being studied. There are no commercial operations yet on
the completed 102-km section ending at Santa Rosa. The Government is studying
the construction of a line to link the West and East Lines, although the DNJM
Transport Survey reported unfavorably on this project. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that (a) the Puerto Mamore-Trinidad section would be
implemented only after economic studies had been carried out and the Asso-
ciation had been afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Government; (b) the finances of the new Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore line



- 7 -
(or anv extension) would be separated from those of ENFE until such time as
the line becomes viable; (c) once ENFE is required to manage operations on
the line, any resulting losses would be compensated by specific reimbursement;
and (d) construction of the East-West link would be undertalen only if justified
by economic analysis satisfactory to the Government and to the Association.
T7.  Traffic and Operations
(i) Freight Traffic
3.11      Total freight transport, accounting for about 75% of all railway
revenues, increased steadily in the period 1960-1971. In the west, ton-km
rose by 5% per annum from 155 million in 1960 to 261 million in 1971, and in
the east from 41 million in 1967 to 86 million in 1971. Freight traffic de-
clined only in 1964, because of difficulties resulting from nationalization
of the network, and in 1970/71, because of a general slowdown in the economy
and a deterioration of ENFE's equipment.
3.12      The sectoral traffic analysis for 1972-1977 (Annex 8) forecast an
increase in ton-km of about 4.5% per annum in the west and 6.5% in the east
on the basis of 1971 traffic. Total 1977 traffic is estimated to reach 465
million ton-km. In the west, the largest increases are expected for wheat
and ores; in the east, cotton (large developments are in prospect) and timber
iccount for about 60% of the projected traffic increase.
'e13      This analysis was compared with the results of a macro-economic
"odel (Annex 9), which uses GDP estimates in the four main sectors and average
revenue per ton-km (all in constant prices) for the period 1960-1969 as explana-
tory variables of traffic growth in the west. The conclusion indicated that
to achieve the results of the commodity analysis, GDP should grow by 5.5%
annually; such a rate is within the range forecast for the country.
(ii) Passenger Traffic
3.14      On the Western System, passenger traffic has declined since 1965 in
terms of number of passengers, but there has been an upward trend in total pass-
km. This is due to the introduction of "Ferrobuses", providing a fast, reliable,
railcar service between distant urban centers, which has more than offset the
downward trend of passenger traffic in regular trains. Actual and forecast
traffic for the period 1965-1977 is given in Annex 10. Traffic growth is
affected to a large extent by the speed and the comfort provided. Thus for
the fast, comfortable railcars, the rate of growth projected is 4.7% annually
while, for regular trains, the increasing competitiveness of road transport
should limit growth of passenger traffic to 2.5% annually. In the east where
road competition is almost nonexistent, the annual growth rate of total rail
pass-km in the period 1965-1971 was about 4%. The projected annual growth
in pass-km is 5.2% from 1972 on, shared equally by trains and railcars.



-8-
(iii) Operations
3.15      Operations have been poor in general, partly due to the lack of
adequate telecommunications, but also to the lack of supervision and training
of staff. vith the consuitants' help, a time-phased program of reorganiza-
tion has been prepared (Annex 5, section D), and a start has already been
nade in introducing transportation plans and creating a train control office.
Staff productivity, at about 90,000 traffic units (pass-km + ton-km) per
employee, is somewhat low when compared to that of other meter gauge railroads
(MIalagasy: 97,000; East Africa: 125,000; the Belgrano, in Argentina: 115,000)
but has to be related to ENFE's light overall traffic density. It should
improve with the full implementation of the rehabilitation and modernization
schemes, tne manpower tedeployment plan and the expected traffic increase.
Annex 11 sumnarizes operating statistics from 1967 to 1971. Due to the lack
of miuch basic information, many of the 1969 figures had to be calculated on
the basis of a four-month sample. A comprehensive plan to improve production
of statistical information, prepared by the consultants,  is being implemented,
and by end-1972 statistical data will be published on a weekly and monthly
basis.
(iv) Commercial Policy
3.16      Until recently, a commercial policy barely existed in ENFE, with
tariffs responding more to political pressures than to railway costs and
transportation demand. The tendency has been to stress rate discounts in an
effort to sell inadequate rail services instead of adjusting ENFE's services
to the needs of the client. It is fundamental for ENFE to improve the serv-
ices offered and to sell them at competitive tariffs which at least cover their
marginal costs. A commercial policy that will mold the services of the railway
to the needs of the customers, while ensuring that they produce a profit, is
crulcial to the success of the rehabilitation program and the attainment of the
financial targets. Creation of a commercial department and training of its
personnel will be completed by the end of 1972.
4.  TlE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   The Plan
4.01      ENFE, assisted by its consultants, has prepared a five-year Invest-
ment and Rehabilitation Plan, 1973-1917, estimated to cost aboit $b 440 mil-
lion (about US$37 million equivalent), with an e8timated fbreign exchange
component of about US$28 million. The overall objective of the Plan is to
make up heavy arrears in maintenance of track and equipment, and to modernize
operations by replacing costly steam traction with diesel Inotivb power, by
renewing an over-aged rolling stock fleet, and by modernizing Vokkshops.  In
conjunction with the proposed investment, and of prime importance to the re-
sovery of ENFE, is the continuation of the existing UNDP financed scheme for
assistance to ENFE in all fields of management and, in particular, the train-
ng of staff in modern engineering and commercial practices. (Annex 12 gives



- 9 -
details of the second phase.) This assistance is also essential to help ENFE
in implementing the parallel interrelated action programs (para 3.03), which
have been prepared in conjunction with the consultants and Association staff.
4.02      The Plan has been appraised by the Association and, following some
revisions, has been agreed on. The investment is the minimum required to
carry out the outlined objectives, and it was agreed during negotiations that
the Government and ENFE would implement the full Plan, would periodically re-
view it, and would not make changes without the agreement of the Association.
Annexes 13 and 14 give details of the Plan; a summary is given below.
1973-1977 Investment Plan Summary
$b million              US$ million        % of total
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total  expenditure
1.   Way and Works  83.6       50.2    133.8       7.0     4.2  11.2        30
2.   Motive Power      -       68.4      68.4       -      5.7   5.7        15
3.   Rolling Stock    -       135.6    135.6       _      11.3  11.3        31
4.   Locomotive and
Car Maintenance -        14.4      14.4      -       1.2   1.2         3
5.   Workshops        9.0       5.9      14.9       .7      .5   1.2         3
6.   Technical
Assistance      1.4      11.7      13.1       .1     1.0   1.1         3
.   Total           94.0     286.2    380.2      7.8    23.9  31.7         85
8.   Contingencies
Physical (1%)'4 .4        -         4.4       .4     -      .4         1
Price  (13%)   8.5       46.5      55.0       .7     3.9   4.6        14
9.   Grand Total   106.9      332.7    439.6       8.9    27.8  36.7       100
/1   Physical contingencies amount to 5% of civil engineering works.
4.03      Included in way and works are track renovation material (sleepers,
fastenings, rails), maintenance tools and equipment, structural reinforcement
of existing wooden bridges, protection against flooding and soil slides on
the important Oruro-Cochabamba line, and modernization of telecommunication
equipment. Motive power comprises the procurement of 15 diesel units, 13
rail tractors and 3 railcar sets to phase out steam traction; delivery of the
15 main line units is, however, projected for 1975-1976 only, since ENFE will
first have to establish adequate maintenance facilities, together with an or-
ganized spares supply system and the training of staff. Rolling stock includes
the provision of 850 freight cars, 25 passenger coaches and 20 cabooses to re-
place over-aged equipment. Locomotive and car maintenance includes components
to rehabilitate equipment which is still in reasonable condition, and the
creation of a basic stock of spare parts. Workshops comprises the moderniza-
tion of the three workshops remaining after concentrationi, and the procurement
of essential machine tools. Technical assistance is related to the extension
of the present scheme in order to pursue basic training of staff and to assist
ENFE in carrying out the various rehabilitation programs.



- 10 -
B.   The Project and the Credit
4.04      The project, which consists of the items to be committed during the
first two years (1973-1974) of ENFE's Investment Plan, is to complete the pre-
liminary stage, already started, of improving the quality of ENFE's management,
staff and facilities so as to make the best use of existing equipment. There-
fore, the emphasis is primarily on training and on the carrying out of action
programs, together with a minimum investment in equipment, spares and compo-
nents, track and rolling stock rehabilitation and workshops modernization.
An important item is the continuation of the technical assistance (para 4.01).
The prospects of the increased traffic forecast for the second phase of the
Plan, and the consequent investment in additional equipment, are heavily
dependent on the satisfactory execution of this first stage. A breakdown
of the project and of the expenditure suitable for finance under the proposed
credit is given below:
$b million            US$ million      US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Proposed Credit
1.  WJay and Works        30.1    20.5      50.6  2.5      1.7   4.2
2.  M4otive Power          -       14.4     14.4   -       1.2   1.2       1.2
3.   Rolling Stock         -      28.8      28.8   -       2.4   2.4       2.4
4.   Locomotive and Car
Maintenance          -      10.0      10.0   -        .8    .8        .8
5.   Workshops             9.0      5.9     14.9   .8       .5   1.3        .5
6.   Technical
Assistance           1.3     7.9       9.2   .1       .7    .8        -
7.   Total                40.4    87.5    127.9  3.4       7.3  10.7       7.4
8.   Contingencies
Physical (1%)        1.6     -         1.6   .1       -     .1        -
Price (7%)           1.9     7.6       9.5   .2       .6    .8        .6
9.   Grand Total          43.9    95.1    139.0  3.7       7.9  11.6       8.0
/1   See paragraph 4.09.
4.05      Included in way and works are (a) essential track works and material
to implement the rehabilitation program and to facilitate the introduction
of modern track maintenance practices, (b) the first phase of bridge strength-
ening and of protection works on the Oruro-Cochabamba line, and (c) improve-
ment in telecommunication equipment. Motive power covers the procurement of
13 rail tractors to replace large locomotives, both steam and diesel, for
light shunting operations, and three diesel railcar sets to carry the projected
passenger traffic increase between urban centers. Rolling stock includes 200
freight cars intended to replace old, small capacity cars and to ease ENFE's
acute shortage of serviceable cars.



4.06      Locomotive and car maintenance relates to the provision of (a) com-
ponents to rehabilitate existing diesel locomotives and railcars, and to im-
prove existing suitable passenger and freight cars; and (b) a basic stock of
spare parts to implement an organized maintenance program. The provision of
spares and components will involve negotiated procurement of about US$500,000
from the original suppliers of the locomotives, railcars and their engines,
I_n Japan and Germany. These components are needed on a one-time basis to re-
store to service capital assets now out of service due to lack of spares.
Suppliers' credits are not normally available for this type of purchase and
none are expected in this case; this item has, therefore, been included in
the proposed credit.  Workshops comprises the modernization of facilities
and the procurement of essential machine tools for maintenance of modern
equipment.
4.07      Cost estimates are based on 1972 prices, and a total contingency al-
lowance of about 8% has been provided.  Physical contingencies have been taken
at 5% of the estimated (local currency) costs of civil engineering works while
price contingencies are based on the assumptions that (a) local costs will
rise at about 3% per annum over the period 1973-1974; and (b) prices for im-
ported material may rise by about 5% per annum.
C.   Financing of the Project
e08      The following table summarizes the proposed financing of the project:
$b million     US$ million
Proposed IDA Credit                     96.0             8.0         69
UNDP Grant                               9.8             0.8          7
Government resources                    33.2             2.8         24
139.0            11.6       100
4.09      No financing is expected from railway resources since ENFE will not
be able to generate sufficient cash during the project period.  The total for-
eign exchange cost, excluding technical assistance, is US$7.2 million. With
UNDP continuing to finance technical assistance, the balance of US$0.8 million
from the credit can be used as a contribution toward local costs of investment
in way and works.
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      Except for spares and components mentioned in paragraph 4.06, all
goods to be financed from the proposed credit would be acquired through inter-
national competitive bidding. Disbursements for imported goods would be made
on the full CIF cost of all such procurement; disbursements for wooden sleepers
and other permanent way material, which are expected to be produced locally,
would be on the basis of ex-factory costs of these items.



- 12 -
4.11      Preferential trade agreements exist between Bolivia and members of
ALALC. 1/ They are, however, irrelevant for procurement procedures under the
project because, according to chapter 86 of the customs code, no duties are
payable by ENFE on railway equipment to be financed from the proposed credit.
4.12      The estimated quarterly and annual rates of disbursement of the pro-
posed credit are given in Annex 15; the disbursement will extend until 1975,
The proiect forms part of the continuing Investment Plan 1973-1977, which has
been appraised as a whole. It is proposed, therefore, that if there are any
savings in IDA-financed items of the project, they be used to finance the for-
eign exchange costs of continuing items in the Plan, subject to review and
agreement with the Association.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The 1973-1977 Investment Plan is a coordinated program of rehabil-
itation and modernization designed to enable the railways to perform efficient-
ly and to carry the rail traffic forecast for the 1973-1977 period. If the
Investment Plan is not implemented, declining quality of service and diminish-
ing capability to move traffic will result partly in diversions to more ex-
pensive road traffic and partly in complete loss of traffic in areas where
roads do not exist.
5.02      The full benefits of any one item (renovation of track, rolling
stock, modernization of workshops, etc.) can be realized only if the whole
investment program is carried out; this interdependency precludes computa-
tion of benefits for most individual items. An overall economic rate of re-
turn was therefore calculated taking into account two alternatives: (a) mak-
ing no investment in the railway and (b) accepting the Investment Plan. In
addition, two parts of the Investment Plan (improvement of the Oruro-Cochabamba
line and dieselization), whose benefits can be singled out, were analyzed
separately (paras. 5.06 and 5.08). The timing of investments under the Plan
takes into consideration the absorptive capacity of the railway in terms of
works to be executed and the level of demand for railway services in future
years (the purchase of more rolling stock in the project period was consid-
ered and did not prove justified on economic grounds).  The detailed economic
costs under the two alternatives are given in Annex 16, and their comparison
assumes no further growth in traffic beyond 1977.
B.   Economic Benefits of the Plan
5.03      The economic evaluation is based on measuring the costs to the
economy in the event that the railway Investment Plan is not implemented.
The main benefits related to the Investment Plan are the avoidance of (a) the
1/   ALALC - Latin America Free Trade Association



- 13 -
higher costs of transportation by road and (b) lost traffic (where no
alternative roads exist). Costs by road take into account only marginal
costs and exclude those of road construction. The marginal road costs
for freight are based on using seven-ton trucks, while for passengers the
cost of buses is taken. No consideration was given to the high costs in-
volved in providing transport by smaller vehicles. For traffic that is
lost to the economy, the loss was measured by the average revenue per unit-
km; this assumption is conservative since the value added to freight trans-
ported, mainly imports and exports, is higher than the revenues accrued to
the mode of transport. Cost savings arising from the Plan include fuel and
maintenance savings from the phasing out of steam traction and the elimina-
tion of freight car rentals payable to other countries. Analysis of all
cost items with the investment Plan and without it shows an economic rate
of return of 21% on the Five-Year Plan (Annex 16).
C.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.04      Two factors which could adversely affect the rate of return -
increasing costs and reduced traffic - were considered:
(a) The first test assumes that railway costs will increase by
15% over the Investment Plan period, while costs of road
transport will remain constant. The resulting rate of
return on the investment is 18%.
(b) In the second test, even if the forecast freight traffic
growth rates in the period 1973-1977 were considerably
reduced, from 4.5% per annum on the West Line and 6.5% per
annum on the East Line to 3.5% and 4% respectively
(significantly lower than those experienced in the past),
the rate of return would still be an acceptable 16%. It
is not expected that any lower traffic growth rate is likely.
5.05      Another important factor to examine is the assumption of ENFE's
ability to rent foreign cars. If, beyond 1973, ENFE were able to rent only
300 cars instead of the assumed 500-600 cars, the economic rate of return
would increase to 29%. The availability of rented freight cars depends on
the good will of neighboring countries; in light of the high impact that such
availability has on the rate of return, it is clear that ENFE should be
provided with an adequate fleet of cars, despite the low rates currently
charged by Argentina and Chile for the rented cars.
D.   Improvement of the Oruro-Cochabamba Line
5.06      The improvement of the Oruro-Cochabamba line to be carried out over
the Plan period is estimated to cost about US$2.9 million equivalent. The
economic justification of this investment has been examined in the light of
the possible construction of the Oruro-Cochabamba highway, an economic study
of which is presently being conducted. The benefits of the improvements on
the line were quantified; they yield an economic rate of return of 18% over a
period of 20 years, and at least 8% on the extreme assumption that all traffic



- 14 -
would be diverted to a new road in 1982. This return, supported by the fact
that the highway would not be a complete substitute for the railway (although
joining the same cities, the modes will not be parallel), is considered satis-
factory to justify the investment.
5.07      The high costs expected in constructing the Oruro-Cochabamba high-
way (US$35-45 million) and the pQssibility that this highway would not gen-
erate traffic, but rather would divert it from the railways, require that the
Association should be consulted on the conclusions of the economic study of
this highway before construction. Agreement on this was reached during nego-
tiations. The economic study is currently under way and is financed by IDB,
which has been requested to finance the highway.
E.   Dieselization
5.08      The program of dieselization will eliminate the use of steam locomo-
tives for main line operations by 1977. The resulting savings in fuel, main-
tenance and labor yield a rate of return of 182 on the dieselization scheme.
This rate of return is computed on the assumption that the alternative to
dieselization is carrying all the traffic projected with the existing fleet
of locomotives.
F.   Uneconomic Lines
5.09      The Sucre-Tarabuco Line, 77 km, has no freight traffic and carries
only about 20 passengers a week, requiring expenditures of about $b 300,000
(US$25,000) a year. There is a parallel road which can carry all passenger
traffic, and it was agreed at negotiations that service on the line will be
terminated by June 30, 1973.
5.10      The Cochabamba-Aiquile Line, about 217 km, earned revenues of about
$b 360,000 (US$30,000) in 1970 against working expenditures of $b 1,635,000
(Us$ 136,250). Freight traffic has ceased and passenger traffic has been de-
clining. It was agreed at negotiations that (a) the Ministry of Transport
would carry out a study of the highway between Cochabamba and Aiquile; (b) the
railway line would be closed if the study shows that provlsion of a 50-km road
extension is the more economic alternative; and (c) should the study show that
the railway line is a more economic alternative, and ENFE be compelled to con-
tinue operations on the line, then ENFE would be given specific subsidies to
cover the resulting deficitsi.-
6. FINANCES
A.   Introduction
6.01      ENFE's financial position is poor and its cash position has steadily
deteriorated over recent years. This has been due to deficits in operations,
affected by failure to raise tariff levels to compensate for inflation since
1958, and to the inadequacy of subventions from Government to meet these



- 15 -
deficits plus investment costs. Future prospects will depend on the ability
to increase traffic and revenues through improved operations together with
some tariff increases, and also on receiving from Government adequate and
prompt financial support, particularly in the years 1973-1975. Thereafter
the need for such support should decline, and it should be possible for the
railway to become financially viable 8soo  after 1977.
3.   Present Financial Position
V.02      Summary balance sheets for ENFE are given in Annex 17, together with
detailed notes on particular items. That of December 31, 1971 is given below:
$b millions
Fixed assets, gross book value                                542
Current assets:  Cash and bank balances             4
Receivables                      65
Inventories - Railway       39
- "Pulperias"   6   45         114
Suspense Accounts - net                                        11
Total Assets                  667
Capital                                                       480
Reserves                                                       35
Long-term debt                                                 80
Current Liabilities: Creditors and accrued expenses 40
Retirement and other social
benefits                       32    72
Total Liabilities             667
6.03      Although the current ratio is good (1.6/1.0), a large part of cur-
rent assets is railway stores, which would not be easily realizable, and the
value of receivables ($b 65 million) is high in relation to annual revenues
of under $b 150 million; it reflects delays in settlement of accounts owed
by state enterprises (including COMIBOL, the state mining concern), Govern-
ment departments, and commercial mines and includes some old and doubtful
balances. During negotiations, it was agreed that the accounts of Government
departments and state enterprises with ENFE would be settled more promptly
and arrears would be cleared up by December 31, 1973.
6.04      The value of railway inventories seems high in relation to operating
costs. It includes work in progress, material in transit, major spares and
maintenance equipment for the Japanese locomotives, and many obsolete and slow
moving items which are to be examined for ultimate disposal. Shown separately
is the value of stores of foodstuffs, held for the "pulperias" (commissaries,
which provide foodstuffs for ENFE staff at low, subsidized prices).



- 16 -
6.05      ENFE's liquid position is poor; the cash and bank balance represents
only about one-third of average monthly cash requirements. No provision is
included for the liability for retirement benefits due to 800-900 staff who
should be retired - the exact figure is unknown, but is estimated at about
$b 40 million.
6.06      The long-term debt consists mainly of a loan from Mitsubishi to
finance diesel locomotives and freight cars, repayable over 10 years, ending
in 1978. The remaining items of debt will be repaid by the end of 1972. Debt
service of about $b 20 million annually is presently met wholly by Government.
6.07      Fixed assets book value, although expressed as gross value, with
depreciation reserve shown separately, includes (a) net written-down book
values of assets taken over from the previous owners; and (b) an arbitrary,
understated value for the Santa Cruz-Corumba line, built by Brazil. It does
not yet include the value of the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba line, built by Argentina.
The cost of both of these lines is being repaid by Bolivia over a long term;
that of the Santa Cruz-Corumba line has been passed on to ENFE as equity, and
the outstanding debt does not appear in ENFE's accounts. No inventory of
fixed assets, agreeing with accounting records, exists, but ENFE is presently
preparing one. During 1971, ENFE commenced revising the book values of fixed
assets, and the reduced figures shown in the 1971 balance sheet reflect the
preliminary results. Corresponding reductions were made to the book value
of "Capital". Further revisions are being made in 1972. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that ENFE will clear up and reconstruct its balance
sheet, using more realistic values for fixed assets, by the end of 1972.
o.08      Annex 18 illustrates the deterioration in ENFE's financial position
over the last six years, caused by operating deficits and by the insufficiency
of annual Government subventions to cover such deficits plus debt service and
capital investment. Particular deterioration occurred in 1971 due to (a) lower
revenues in the first six months; (b) higher costs, affected by the national
wage award of January 1; and (c) delays in obtaining funds from the Govern-
ment. After repeated requests from ENFE management, the Government increased
the amount to about $b 43 million, and these funds have now been made avail-
able to ENFE, with about $b 8 million for debt service being provided in
early 1972.
C.   Tariffs and Costs
6.09      ENFE's tariff structure remained basically unchanged between 1959
and 1972. It was based on six commodity classifications varying according to
the route of shipment; it failed to reflect the costs of carrying different
commodities. Additionally, the stability of rates resulted in a decreasing
revenue per unit-km in real terms from $b 0.237 per ton-km in 1961 to $b 0.170
in 1970 on the Western System, an annual decrease of about 4%.
6.10      A new freight tariff structure, prepared by ENFE with the help of
the consultants, SOFRERAIL, became effective on July 15, 1972. The new rates
are based on, and at least cover, marginal costs of transporting each commodity
(long-run marginal costs, including depreciation of renewable assets) and take
account of competition by other modes of transport.



- 17 -
6.11      Under the new tariff, most commodities bear increased rates, except
for basic commodities which affect the cost of living - wheat, flour, potatoes,
fruits, vegetables, salt and kerosene - which, at the insistence of Government,
bear little or no increase in rates. There is a reasonable margin for reduc-
tions to shippers who load cars more productively, thereby improving car load-
ing factors. The overall increase in revenue per ton-km ranges from about
10% to 15%, depending largely on the extent of such reductions. As noted
in Annex 20, future revenues have been calculated on the basis of a 10% rise
in revenue per ton-km.
6.12      Passenger fares are sufficient to cover marginal costs on second
class traffic; those for "Ferrobuses" are even more profitable (Annex 2).
For first class passenger services, revenues are well below marginal cost.
However, first class travel is being discontinued in 1972 except on interna-
tional trains. Any substantial overall increase in passenger fares between
the major cities in the west seems unfeasible in view of road competition
but, with the planned improvement in passenger services, the commercial
department should undertake a study to determine where selective fare
increases can be introduced. The most likely areas are (a) second class
services in the east where, in many places, no competing road exists and
where tariffs do not cover average total costs; and (b) "Ferrobus" services
in the west, which provide a more comfortable ride than buses but charge
much lower fares per pass-km than equivalent services in the east. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that this study would be completed by
March 1973 and, thereafter, any proposed tariff changes would be promptly
implemented in consultation with the Association.
Do   Past and Future Earnings
(i) Past Earnings
6.13      ENFE has faced financial difficulties since its creation in 1964.
By nature of the difficult terrain traversed by some railway lines, and the
low level of traffic on most of these lines (averaging 92,000 pass-km and
134,000 ton-km per route-km on the West Line and 52,000 pass-km and 75,000
ton-km on the East Line in 1969, Annex 1), it is a high cost railway. Recur-
ring annual deficits can be reduced or eliminated only by reducing costs, in-
creasing traffic and charging realistic tariffs - matters over which ENFE
has only limited influence. However, there is scope for reductions in unit
costs through increasing efficiency of operations, the prospects of increased
traffic are favorable and, with the introduction of a new, cost-based tariff,
realistic rates should be charged.
6.14      Annex 19 shows the income accounts of ENFE for the years 1966-
1970, for West and East Lines separately. Results for ENFE as a whole are
summarized on the following page:



- 18 -
Net      Net
Operating Working Operating  Working Operating Interest   Net    Working
Year  Revenue  Expenses Expenses   Revenue  Revenue  Charges  Deficit  Ratio %
(Loss) (Loss)
-------------- ($b million)  ------
1966  105.6    120.8      120.8       (15.2)   (15.2)       -     15.1       114
1967  115.8    123.4      123.4       ( 7.6)   ( 7.6)      0.3     8.6       106
1968  125.9    139.9      140.1       (14.0)   (14.2)      3.6    17.5       111
1969  147.7    136.8      144.5        10.9      3.2       6.8     0.2        93
1970  138.9    142.5      150.0       ( 3.6)   (11.1)      6.1    20.6       103
1971  139.1    162.6      169.6       (23.5)   (30.5)/l   5.5    36.9        117
/1   About US$2.5 million equivalent.
Between 1966 and 1969, traffic and revenues rose steadily by 40% and, with
expenses rising by only 27%, the working ratio improved from 114 to 93. In
1970, traffic declined slightly, affected by the slowdown in economic growth
discussed in paragraph 2.02, but expenses rose, and the working ratio
deteriorated to 103. In 1971, traffic and revenues were similar to those of
1970, but with a wage award effective January 1, 1971, costing about $b 8
million, working expenses rose to about $b 163 million and the working ratio
deteriorated to 117.
6.15      Freight is the dominant traffic, providing about 75% of the operat-
ing revenues, with passengers accounting for about 20%. The average revenue
per ton-km rose slightly, from $b 0.298 in 1967 to $b 0.301 in 1971 (US4 4.1
per ton-mile). Average revenue per pass-km rose between 1967 and 1971, from
$b 0.089 (US4 1.19 per pass-mile) to $b 0.103 (US4 1.38 per pass-mile), due
mainly to the introduction of better paying ferrobus services. These average
unit revenues are higher than in some other Latin American countries (Argentina,
Brazil and Mexico) but are in line with those in Peru and Colombia - countries
with similar topography.
6.16      Average total unit costs before depreciation remained fairly steady
over the period 1967-1970 ($b 0.237 per unit-km in 1967, $b 0.243 in 1970),
but rose to $b 0.264 in 1971.
6.17      Armual depreciation charges are too low - ENFE did not begin
charging depreciation until 1968, and then only on newly acquired equipment
such as locomotives and rolling stock. For this reason it has not been
practicable to quote operating ratios. Interest charges are largely those
payable on loans from Japan and Germany for motive power and rolling stock.
6.18      With working costs generally exceeding revenues, ENFE has not been
able to provide any funds for debt service or replacement of equipment; there-
fore, such ratios as times interest earned, debt service and earnings cannot
be quoted.



- 19 -
(ii) Future Earnings
6.19      Income projections for the years 1973-1977 illustrating the improve-
ment expected to arise from the proposed investment and technical assistance
are given in Annex 20, together with the detailed assumptions used, and are
summarized below:
Net
Work-   Opera-   Work-  Net Opera-
Opera-  ing      ting      ing     ting    Inter-          Work-   Opera-
ting   Expen-  Expendi- Reve-  Revenue    est    Net    ing        ting
Year Revenue  ses      ture     nue  (Deficit)  Charges Income Ratio % Ratio %
(Deficit)                   (Deficit)
-------------------   - ($b million)---- ---------
1973  166.0  168.1   192.1    (2.1)   (26,1)    3.7   (32.3)   101        116
1974  172.5  167.7   192.7      4.8    (20.2)    3.0   (25.7)    97       112
1975  181.0  163.3   188.8    17.7      (7.8)    5.8   (16.0)    90       104
1976  190.0  159.5   185.5    30.5       4.5    11.9    (9.8)    84        98
1977  198.5  155.9   182.4    42.6      16.1    16.6    (2.9)    79        92
6.20      The assumptions given in Annex 20 are the best estimates of what is
likely to happen; the most critical concerns the traffic forecasts, particular-
ly freight, which depends so heavily on imports and exports.  The income projec-
tions assume no tariff increases other than the relatively modest increases
discussed in paragraph 6.11. During negotiations, agreement was reached that,
in addition to the above, ENFE would promptly propose and Government would ap-
prove immediate tariff increases sufficient to offset any increased costs which
may arise due to inflation or general wage awards.
E.   Financial Targets
6.21      The carrying out of the rehabilitation plan is expected to result
in a considerable improvement in the railways' financial condition, although
ENFE is not expected to become financially viable until about 1978. By 1977,
(a) working and operating ratios should improve to 79% and 92% respectively;
and (b) as against the present position of complete inability to service debt,
the times interest earned ratio should reach 0.8, and the debt service cover-
age a satisfactory 1.3 provided ENFE incurs no debt substantially greater than
that discussed in paragraph 6.24. In the light of ENFE's present position,
achievement of these financial ratios would be as good as can be expected.
6.22      As mentioned in paragraph 6.20, the freight traffic forecast is most
critical and, with its great dependence on exports and imports, can be affected
by world trade conditions. The sensitivity of the financial projections to re-
ductions of 5% and of 10% in the level of this traffic was examined. A 5% fall
would reduce ENFE's earnings by $b 11 million over the project period and by
$b 31 million over the plan period; 10% would result in reductions of $b 22 mil-
lion and $b 62 million respectively. The annual working and operating ratios
would deteriorate by about 3% and 6% respectively, and achievement of the
agreed targets would be delayed by about one year.



- 20 -
6.23      In view of the unsatisfactory nature of ENFE's current balance
sheets and the asset identification and valuation presently under way, it is
not possible to project future balance sheets in the normal manner. Instead,
an attempt has been made to build up forecast statements on the basis of
(a) an estimate of the revised gross values of fixed assets and of accumulated
depreciation; (b) the forecast operating results; (c) the annual forecasts of
debt; (d) revisions of present figures of current assets and liabilities to
eliminate some doubtful items; and (e) the assumption that ENFE's accounts
will be rationalized within the next year. These tentative summary balance
sheets, given in Annex 21, show the current ratio improving slightly over the
period from 1.3 to 1.4 and the debt equity ratio ranging from 7/93 to 29/71,
which is reasonably satisfactory and which should improve after 1977. The
increase in long-term debt reflects the borrowing required during the period
to finance the foreign exchange element of investment. The annual additions
to working capital should improve ENFE's liquidity, and cash and bank balances
should improve from $b 4 million at the end of 1971 to about $b 15 million by
the end of 1977 (about five weeks' working expenses), which would be reasonably
satisfactory.
6.24      At negotiations, agreement was reached that ENFE (a) would achieve
the working and operating ratios referred to above, and detailed in Annex 20;
(b) would provide in its accounts annual depreciation of not less than $b 24
million; and (c) would not incur long-term debt without the Association's
agreement unless net cash revenue is at least 1.25 times the maximum future debt
service requirements (the financial forecasts indicate ratios of 1.07 in 1976
and 1.30 in 1977).
F.   The Financing Plan
6.25      The financing plan over the period of ENFE's 1973-1977 Investment
Plan is summarized on page 21. More detail is given in Annex 18. The require-
ment for retirement benefits is spread over the five years to allow ENFE to
plan an orderly exodus of staff already qualified to retire and to reduce
the financial impact on Government resources.
6.26      In the project period, the proposed credit, together with continued
UNDP financing of the technical assistance (about US$0.8 million), will cover
all the foreign exchange requirements. It has been assumed that the proposed
credit will be made available to ENFE on repayment terms of about 25 years,
at about 7-1/4% annual interest. Although the equipment to be procured by the
proposed credit will be in use within three years, a five-year period of grace
is recommended for both repayment and interest in view of ENFE's weak financial
position, and to enable ENFE to satisfy the requirements of the financing plan.
For the remaining three years of the Plan, 1974-1976, foreign exchange require-
ments of about U1S$20 million still have to be secured. Apart from the possi-
bility of further borrowing on soft terms from international finance agencies,
it is probable that such items as diesel locomotives and freight cars will
have to be financed from suppliers' credits or bilateral finance. UNDP has
agreed to help finance the continuation of technical assistance through 1974
and has allocated US$1 million for this purpose.



- 21 -
Project Period                   Plan Period
1973-1974/1                     1973-1977
Funds Required         $ b million  US$ million  %   $b million  US$ million  %
(a) For investment: /
Proposed IDA project  129.9          10.8     70.6    129.9         10.8    21.5
Other capital
expenditure               -           -        -      309.7        25.8    51.5
Total investment       129.9        10.8     70.6    439.6         36.6    73.0
(b) For debt service:
Interest                  6.7         0.6      3.9      41.0         3.4      6.8
Repayment                31.2         2.6      17.0     74.5         6.2    12.4
Total debt service    37.9           3.2     20.9    115.5          9.6    19.2
(c) Retirement benefits    14.8           1.2      7.9      37.0         3.1      6.2
(d) Additional working
capital                  1.0         0.1      0.6      10.0         0.8      1.6
Total funds required 183.6          15.3    100.0    602.1         50.1   100.0
Sources of Funds
(a) Internal genera-
tion by ENFE
(deficit)             (2.3)       (0.2)    (1.3)    81.3           6.8    13.5
(b) Borrowings:
Proposed IDA credit   86.9           7.2     47.1      96.0         8.0    15.9
Other borrowings          -          -        -       233.1        19.3    38.7
Total borrowings      86.9          7.2     47.1    329.1         27.3    54.6
(c)  UNDP grant               9.8         0.8      5.2      14.3         1.2      2.4
(d)  Government equity       89.2         7.5     49.0    177.4         14.8    29.5
Total sources of
funds               183.6        15.3    100.0    602.1          50.1   100.0
/1   Figures quoted for investment and borrowing reflect timing of disbursement
of the credit, as in Annex 15, and consequently are slightly different
from those quoted in paragraph 4.08.
/2   Includes technical assistance to be financed by UNDP grant.



- 22 -
6.27      ENFE's earnings, while improving over the period, will not have
reached the point at which, after servicing debt and paying retirement
benefits, any contribution could be made to investment until about 1978.
Therefore, the local currency financing of the Plan will depend heavily,
although on a reducing scale, on Government equity contributions, apart from
US$0.8 million (about $b 10 million equivalent) which can be made available
in the project period from the proposed credit, as discussed in paragraph 4.09.
6.28      Should the traffic forecasts prove optimistic, as discussed in
paragraph 6.22, the burden on Government finances would, of course, rise by
the shortfalls in revenues given in that paragraph.
6.29      Agreement was reached at negotiations that (a) the Government would
promptly provide all funds required to cover the annual deficits resulting
from operations and debt service, and to carry out the Plan; and (b) these
funds would be provided to ENFE in advance on a revolving fund basis, in
accordance with agreed on annual budgets (para. 6.31).
G.   Budgets, Accounts and Audit
(i) Budgets
6.30      ENFE prepares annual budgets for presentation to the Ministry of
Finance for approval, by October 30. The budgets are supposed to include
requirements for both operations and investment. However, apart from debt
service requirements, little or no provision has recently been made for
investment. The iinistry of Finance generally adjusts the budget downward
depending on the availability of Government funds, as in 1971, discussed in
paragraph 6.08.
6.31      At negotiations, it was agreed that future annual railway budgets
would be agreed on between ENFE, the Government and IDA.
(ii) Accounts
6.32      ENFE's accounting system is not entirely satisfactory.  Operating
accounts do not present an accurate picture because of the lack of, or inade-
quacy of, depreciation provisions and the existence of many suspense accounts
awaiting clearance (Annex 17); the balance sheets give an inaccurate financial
picture due to a lack of proper fixed asset records, both. physical and finan-
cial, plus the previously mentioned suspense accounts and insufficient depre-
ciation provisions. A small, inadequate computer has been purchased and will
soon have to be replaced. There is a need for more adequate training of staff.
6.33      The UNDP-financed technical assistance includes provision for
expert advice on computer requirements and for assistance in making the
revisions necessary to bring the accounting up to a satisfactory standard,
together with training for accounting personnel.



- 23 -
(iii) Audit
6.34      External audit is carried out by the audit section of the "Comptroller
General of the Republic". Due largely to a shortage of staff, the audit of
ENFE's accounts has been considerably delayed over recent years. However,
that for the year 1970 has been completed, and the draft report has recently
been received. Many detailed criticisms in the report indicate a lack of
training among the accounts staff, with consequent deficiencies in internal
control, a situation which should improve with the technical assistance
referred to in paragraph 6.33. The audit procedures and scope of work appear
satisfactory. The Comptroller General has agreed that, although the audit of
1971 accounts, which is now in process, will be delayed in the process of
making up arrears, from then onward annual audited accounts would be submitted
to the Association no later than six months after the end of the financial
year. This was agreed during negotiations and the undertaking will be
incorporated in the credit documents.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIENDATION
7.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) ENFE will carry out the agreed action program for
improving operations, maintenance facilities and
practices, and commercial practices; for rehabilitation
of track and equipment; and for reduction and redeployment
of staff (para. 3.03);
(b) ENFE will achieve agreed financial targets (para. 6.24);
(c) ENFE will restrict its long-term debt (para. 6.24);
(d) Investments for: (i) extension of the Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore
Line to Trinidad will be made only after economic studies
have been carried out and the Association has been given a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Government; and (ii) interconnecting of ENFE's East and
West Lines will be carried out only if justified by
economic analysis satisfactory to the Government and
the Association (para. 3.10);
(e) Government will ensure that ENFE will be isolated from any
financial implications regarding the Santa Cruz-Puerto Mamore
Line (or any extensions) (para. 3.10);
(f) The Sucre-Tarabuco Line will be closed by June 30, 1973
(para. 5.09);



- 24 -
(g) The Cochabamba-Aiquile Line will be closed if a study of a
road extension, to be carried out by the Government, proves
the highway to be the more economic alternative; or, if the
study shows that the railway line is more economic, then
specific subsidies will be paid to ENFE to cover the losses
incurred on that line (para. 5.10);
(h) Annual budgets, both for operations and investment, will be
agreed by ENFE, the Government and the Association, and
Government will provide all funds required, in accordance
with these budgets, on a revolving fund basis (paras. 6.29
and 6.31).
7.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a credit of
US$8.0 million equivalent to the Government of Bolivia. The proceeds of the
proposed credit will be made available by the Government of Bolivia to ENFE,
to be repaid over a period of 25 years, including five years of grace, at an
annual rate of interest of 7-1/4%. A project agreement has been negotiated
and will be concluded between the Association and ENFE.
November 15, 1972



BOLIVIA
BOLIVIAN RAILWAYS FREIGHT TRAFFIC DENSITY (1969)
(in ton-km per line-km)
EL ALTO
PERU        VIACHA      LAPAZ
BRAZIL
COCHABAM8A
CHARANA        ORURO  |               \            SANTA CRUZ
AICUILE
SUCRE *         ARABUCO   |                                                         CORUMBA
R0 MULATO O
CHILE                               YUN|
OLLALUE                     S TUP12A
It              ~~~~YACUIBA
VILLAZON                                SCALE   tIn          of Ko- per l,ne -K)
AREN  _ 100                                    X
2
ARGEANTINVA                                              200                                    mx
W.eNd S-fk-6358(2R~






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Costs and Revenues per Pass-km
and Ton-km in $b *                  1U$ - 12 $b
C O  S      PER   TRAFFIC   UNIT                                   Average Revenue
Fully Distributed                      Marginal OoSt                          Per Traffic Unit
Category of Service             Western       Eastern           Westerm                    Eastern             Western      Eastern
a)  Passengers
1st Class                   0.760         0.337        o.o4%       0.260         0.175        0.105         0.146        0.152
2nd Class                   0.158         0.112       0.Ob0        0.058         0.057        0.035         0.076        0.073
Ferrobuses (Railcars)       O.l.bO        0.18        o.0084       0.062         0.069        0.051         0.098        0.177
Autocarriles                0.67L-        0.326       0.365        0.358         0.152        0.144         0.097        0.144
b)  Baggage & Parcels           2.066         1.618        1.021        0.833         0.8b2       0.702         1.085        1.226
c)  Freight
Complete Car Loads          0.300         0.357       0.153        0.118         0.167        0.128         0.309        0.275
LCL                         0.781         0.517       0.371        0.265         0.242        0.192         0.374        0.204
Average                     0.317         0.364       0.161        0.125         0.171        0.131         0.314        0.271
1/ With depreciation
2/ Without depreciation
i  Source:  'Costos De Los Transportes" Mision 9CFRERAIL en Bolivia, February 1971 (based on 1969 data)
December 1971






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF ' nAIL4WY PROJECT
Yarginal Cost (in $b) of Road Transport*
FREIGHT **                          PASSENGERS **
La-Paz     Oruro-      Cochabamba-     La-Paz        Oruro-      Cochabamba-
Oruro    Cochabamba    Santa Cruz      Oruro      Cochabamba    Santa Cruz
(a)  Cost Relating to Vehicle-km
(in $b per km)
Fuel                                     0.3339       0.4095      0.2835         0.4410        0.4977      0.3780
Lubricants                               0.0642       0.0762      0.0579         0.0768        0.0881      0.0705
Repairs                                  0.2417       0.3222      0.2124         0.2204        0.2939      0.2571
Tires                                    0.1954       0.2199      0.1954         0.2513        0.2932      0.2513
Washing                                  0.0050       0.0050      0.0050         0.0200        0.0200      0.0200
Grease                                   0.0026       0.0033      0.0028         0.0028        0.0033      0.0028
(b)  Annual Vehicle Costs
(in $b per amnum)
Driver & assistants                      24,300       24,300      24,300         24,300        24,300      42,300
Amortization & interest                  15,457       15,457      16,936         30,526        30,528      30,528
Insurance                                 9,120        9,120       9,120         14,320        14,320      14,320
Annual run (in km)                       45,000       45,000      65,0oo         70,000        70,000       70,000
Costs per km                              1.929        2.122       1.531          2.000         2.184       1.980
Average load (in tons or                  4.9          4.2         3.5           18.0          18.0        16.0
passengers)
Operational costs per unit-km             0.393        0.505       0.o37          0.111         0.121       0.123
Road maintenance costs per unit-km        0.012        0.010       0.014          0.005         0.005       0.007
Marginal costs of road transport          0.405        0.515       0.450          0.116         0.126        0.130
*      Source:  Based on SOFRERAIL study on road transport, September 1971 - reviewed by Bank's mission.
Based on costs for a 7-ton truck.
***~ Based on costs for buses.
December 1971






BOLIViA
BOLIVIAN RAILWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Management
CoMrnosition of the Board;
-Chairman:    Minister of Transp. & Comm.
-6 Members:   1 representative of M.O.T. 
{oirector National Railways)
1 repr. of Ministry of Mines
1 repr. of Ministy of Industry
2 repr. of Labor Union                       General Manager
General Manager of ENFE
Operations                                                 mit
Manager                                                   l
Personnel and
Welfare Manager
Way and Works                                 Motive                                                                                   Personnel
aand                       nd fFinance                                                   Supplies                                   anicld
j~~~2muniOpeation                             WorkshpWefe
|Telecommunications    rrNion            |e   iace                                        ||     Sple
East Line
Superintr ndenti
|    3     Z Legai              Secretarial
OperatingI
Chief
rWaV and Works  |        r| Traffi c and   | rMotive Power  |         l                                                                Personnel                       >
tTlcor  pera ions   |   |   Wand                 Accounting           Stores                Medical             and
World Bank-6591  1






ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Time-Phased Action Programs
A.   Rehabilitation of Track
1.   Rehabilitation of track requires (i) the upgrading of the present
track conditions to an adequate level, followed by (ii) the execution of
periodic maintenance work. Rehabilitation schemes have been developed on
this basis and have been implemented since May 1971 on two pilot zones,
mainly to serve as on-the-job training.
2.   Implementation of the track rehabilitation program is scheduled
as follows:
-    in 1972:  extension of the pilot schemes to 15 zones
-    by mid-1974:  extension to the whole of ENFE (150 zones).
B.   Diesel Motive Power and Rolling Stock
1.   Diesel Motive Power
Number of locomotives or rail cars:
End 1971     to be in running condition /1 by:
in running/1
in fleet  condition -end 1972 end 1973 end 1974 end 1975
Main-line diesel
locomotives             25          18          18        22       24        25
Shunting diesel
locomotives              4           4           4         4        4         4
Diesel rail cars
a)  ferrobuses          10           6           8         9       10        10
b)  automotors           2           0           0         2        2         2
/1   in running condition means locomotives and rail cars available for
service. It includes units undergoing scheduled repair work (but
excludes, for instance, units unavailable due to such causes as major
accidents and extensive delays in obtaining spares).
2.   Rolling Stock
(i) Passenger cars: out of the present total fleet of 121 cars,
73 cars will be scrapped over the next 5 years, leaving 48 cars in running
condition but needing rehabilitation, i.e., a major overhaul.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
The rehabilitation program is to be carried out as follows:
3 cars in 1972
22 cars in 1973
23 cars in 1974
Total    48 cars
(ii) Freight cars: out of the present total fleet of 1,843 cars,
823 cars will be scrapped over the next 5 years, leaving 1,020 in running
condition but needing rehabilitation, namely general overhaul of the running
gear, the brake equipment and the flooring.
The rehabilitation program is to be carried out as follows:
60 cars in 1972
140 cars in 1973
300 cars in 1974
300 cars in 1975
220 cars in 1976
Total    1020 cars
3.   Execution of this rehabilitation program requires that action be
taken in two related fields:
(i)  Spare Parts
a)   ordering of 1973/74 spares by April 1973, in order not
to delay the rehabilitation program;
b)   completing the listing of components required for the
rest of the plan period by December 1973; and
c)   setting up, by December 1973, of an organized stores
and supply system based on a stock control organization
placed under the responsibility of the Technical Depart-
ment, and a centralized supply office.
(ii) Concentration and Modernization of Workshops
a)   Concentration:  (1) Repair work to be specialized as
follows:
Viacha workshop: repair of diesel mDtive power, ferro-
buses and autoators for both systems
(Western and Eastern).
Uyuni workshop: repair of passenger and freight cars
for the Western System.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Robore workshop: repair of passenger and freight
cars for the Eastern System.
(2)  arising from the above, closure of Cochabamba, Sucre and
Potosi workshops, and conversion of Tupiza, Santa Cruz
and Oruro workshops into running sheds;
(3)  the above to be fully implemented by December 31, 1976.
(b) Modernization: Modernization and reorganization schemes,
now being studied, to be completed and implemented:
-    by mid-1974 for the car workshop at Robore and by
December 1974 for that at Uyuni
-    by mid-1974 for the diesel motive power workshop
(Viacha).
C.   Staff Redeployment and Reduction
To keep the labor force commensurate with the improvements gained
from modernization resulting from application of the five-year Investment
Plan, the rehabilitation of services and the concentration of workshops,
staff members should be reduced to 5,500 by end of 1977. The reduction is
to be effected in steps, according to the table below, so as to ease the
financial burden involved in paying retirement benefits.
mid       end        end       end        end        end
Year      :    1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977
ENFE's
labor force:   6,250      6,150      6,050     5,900      5,700     5,500
D.   Reorganization of Operations
Reorganization of operations is based on the following main actions:
(i) setting up and implementation of a Transportation Plan, giving
the trains required to carry the forecast traffic (composition,
routing, time table);
(ii) creation of train control offices;
(iii) setting up of a car allocation system adapted to ENFE's requirements;
(iv) reorganization of marshalling yards.
The timing of the above will be as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
1.   Transportation Plan
1.1  Western System:  has been introduced in July 1971.
1.2  Eastern System:  is to be introduced by mid-1973.
2.   Train Control
The main office, located at Oruro, has been effective
since July 1971. A sub-office, located at Uyuni, will
be made effective by mid-1973.
3.   Car Allocation
The new system, now being studied, is to be made effective
by March 1973.
4.   Marshalling Yards
Instructions covering the new organization were ready for
application in July 1972.
E.   Commercial Policies
Setting up of commercial policies comprises (i) the introduction
of a new tariff structure and (ii) the creation of a Commercial Department
responsible for marketing, sales promotion, study of new transport techniques,
and tariffication. The timing of the above will be as follows:
1.   New tariff structure
Studies for a new tariff structure, based on costs and competition,
have been carried out. The new structure for freight traffic was applied on
July 15, 1972 and that for passenger traffic is to be ready by March 1973 and
introduced by mid-1973.
2.   Commercial Department
The organization of this department has been prepared and agreed on,
but lack of qualified staff has prevented actual start of operations. Staff-
ing is now in process, mostly by outside recruiting (a Department Head was
appointed in October 1971) and training of new recruited staff will require
about three months.
The Commercial Department is to be fully operational by March 1973.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
F.   Planning Unit
ENFE will set up a Planning Unit, to report directly to the
General Manager, responsible for (i) the formulation of company policy; (ii)
long-range planning, updating and carrying forward of the Investment Plan;
(iii) setting up and monitoring management controls; (iv) statistics; and
(v) traffic costing. This Planning Unit will be fully operational by the
2nd of 1972.
G.   Superintendence of Personnel and Welfare
The organization chart for the reorganized Superintendence of
Personnel and Welfare is given on page 7 of this Annex. The Division of
Personnel and Welfare will be the executive group, responsible for direct
contacts with the employees, the maintenance of adequate personnel records,
training, and the administration of fringe benefits. The Rules and Procedures
section, with the basic function of preparing, maintaining, and updating the
approved regulations, will play a pivotal role in the establishment of unified
management procedures for the Western and Eastern Systems. The reorganization
is under way and is to be completed by March 1973.
H.   Finances and Accounting
1.   Operating targets
ENFE will take all measures necessary, including tariff revisions,
to improve revenues sufficiently to achieve the following targets:
1973      1974      1975       1976       1977
Working Ratio %      101        97         90        84         79
Operating Ratio %   116        112        104        98         92
In arriving at the operating ratio, adequate provision for de-
preciation will be made, based on revised values of fixed assets and on
realistic asset lives, the annual amount being not less than $b 24 million.
2.   Tariff
New tariffs were introduced in July 1972 for freight and will be
introduced in mid-1973 for passengers, both incorporating selective tariff
increases, bearing in mind highway competition, which will increase revenues
by about 10%.
3.   Accounting
ENFE's balance sheets will be improved by the end of 1972 by:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(i) clearance of the suspense accounts - "Cargos Diferidos"
and "Abonos Diferidos";
(ii) clearance of old outstanding items in "Activo Transitorio";
and
(iii) completing the identification and valuation of fixed assets
now commenced, together with preparation of proper deprecia-
tion schedules, all to be reflected in the 1972 balance sheet.
The accounting system will be revised by the end of 1972 so that
not only will the operating expenses be presented in the normally accepted
railway form, but such essential information as costs of labor, fuel,
materials, contractors, car rentals, loss on "pulperias" etc. be readily
available, and the accounting information provided will facilitate the
calculation of traffic costs.
October 1972



MZOB3ANIZKD SUPKRI L,ADEE OF PlRS(NNIL AND WFARE
ISuperintendent of Personnel and Welfare
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SecretaryLea
Deatment of                           Medical
Persnne and Welfare                     Department]
Rules and                                                                    Personnel Administration
Procedures  Section                                                          Section
Ff Uocruitment and                                                                 .      
m   PrD~omo ti~on Procedu~ress                                     PersonnelI
L~~~o PrcdreManagement and,
Professionals-
Statistics
Relations wit"                                               Safety and
Unions                                                       Training
Procedures
Lab( r andi_rcn
Clerical-
Statistics
(Six Districts)






ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Brief Description of Railway Property
A.   Track and Structures
Track, structures and buildings, although not in good condition,
are adequate for the levels of traffic. Needs exist, however, for replace-
ment of sleepers and of track fittings, together with considerable arrears
in replacement of old, worn, or corroded rail. To avoid the periodic closure
of the Oruro-Cochabamba line during wet seasons, a minimum investment is
needed for improved protection against flood, soil slides and river erosion.
Existing old timber bridges on the Uyuni-Antofagasta section, dating from the
time of line construction, have to be replaced by steel structures. Main-
tenance tools, a minimum of stone ballasting (at present, track is supported
by earth ballast) and rail joint welding are also needed to bring about
further improvement in maintenance standards and in traffic operations
(fewer speed restrictions).
A time-phased program to upgrade the track from the present con-
dition to a level adequate to enable the execution of periodic maintenance
has been prepared (Annex 5, section A). Implementation of this program
has started with the help of consultants on two pilot schemes, to serve
mainly as an on-the-job training, due to the very limited facilities of
ENFE in track maintenance equipment and the acute shortage of track material
(sleepers and fastenings). Performance should substantially improve when
better tools and adequate material and supplies become available.
Train control is made by token system or by line order system;
although somewhat primitive, it is adequate for the light level of traffic to
be carried. Improvement in ENFE's telecommunication network, which is in
extremely poor condition and hampers operations, is fundamental, and should
be considered a high priority item.
B.   Motive Power - Rolling Stock
The fleet comprises 92 steam locomotives, 29 diesel engines (25
main line and 4 shunter), 12 diesel rail cars, 198 passenger and 1,843 freight
cars as detailed on page 3 of this Annex. The diesel equipment and 100
freight wagons were acquired with suppliers' credits, 10 rail car sets from
Germany and the rest from Japan, in 1968.
Diesel locomotives and rail cars, although almost new, have a poor
availability of 76% and 60% respectively. Passenger and freight cars are
generally old and poorly maintained. Because of the lack of serviceable



ANNEX 6
Page 2
freight cars, ENFE has to use permanently about 350 to 400 cars from neigh-
boring countries (Argentina, Chile). Although the rental charges are not
excessive, reliance on other countries for such a large number of cars in-
hibits good operational planning with the inherent risk of failure to receive
cars when urgently needed. The poor condition of most equipment is due
mainly to lack of spares.
C.  Workshops
Maintenance of equipment, which is one of the weakest areas of
ENFE, is performed in too many shops: four on the Western System and two
on the Eastern System. All these workshops are old and the facilities are
quite unsuitable to carry out repair of modern equipment. Labor mostly lacks
the basic training to carry out maintenance in an efficient and modern way,
mainly in the field of diesel locomotives and rail cars.
Rehabilitation of motive power and rolling stock is a key factor
in the overall rehabilitation of ENFE, and is fundamental toward improvement
of operations. This requires, in addition to the setting up of organized
maintenance schemes and the training of qualified staff, the concentration
and modernization of workshops and the reorganization of the present stores
and supply system.
A time-phased rehabilitation program has been prepared, aiming at:
(i) reorganizing the present spares supply system by 1973, (ii) increasing
the availability of all equipment to 85-90% by 1975, and (iii) reducing the
number of workshops for both systems to three in 1976 (Annex 5, section B).
With the help of consultants, implementation has already started.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Fleet of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
(as of December 31, 1971)
1.   Age distribution:
Age Distribution
Total      less than    from 10 to       over
10 years     30 years      30 years
Steam locomotives                    92            -            48            44
Diesel main line engines             25           25             -
Diesel shunters                       4             4            -
Diesel rail cars                     12            12            -
Passenger coaches                   198            -             3           195
Freight cars                      1,843           100          492         1,251
2.   Passenger coach breakdown:
First class and saloon cars   :         33
Second class and mixed cars   :         61
Sleepers                        :       15
Dining cars                     :       12
Auxiliary cars                  :       18
Service coaches                :        17
Cabooses                        :       19
Baggage vans                   :        23
Total                                  198
3.   Freight car breakdown:
Box cars                        :      792
Gondola cars                    :      266
Flat cars                       :      326
Livestock                       :      113
Tank cars                              191
Refrigerated cars               :        4
Others                          :      151
Total                                1,843
October 1972






ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
New Lines Under Construction or Proposed
A.   Under Construction
is       The Argentine and Bolivian Governments agreed in 1967 to extend
the Yacuiba-Santa Cruz line northward to a navigable point on the Rio Mamore
in order to encourage the economic development of northeastern Bolivia and
strengthen links between Bolivia and Argentina. A joint mixed Argentine-
Bolivian commission is supervising the construction. The finance is supplied
by Argentina with repayment guaranteed by the sales of Bolivian oil to Argen-
tina. The 102-km section to Santa Rosa has been completed and construction
is in progress on the second 104-km section from Santa Rosa to Rio Yacapani.
Final design has been completed for the third 104-km section ending at Rio
Mamore; this 310-km line is being built to higher standards than most of
ENFE's network and its cost is estimated at about US$30 million. The two
Governments have also recently agreed to study an extension of a further
140 km to the town of Trinidad.
2.        The potential of the country to be opened up by the line has not
been established by any economic study. Further, the possibility of other
transport modes, particularly the construction of roads, seems to have been
ignored in the decision to promote economic integration of this area. The
Government appears determined to proceed with the project as agreed with
Argentina.
3.        Presently there are no commercial operations on the section that
has been completed. However, rather than allowing the track and facilities
to deteriorate through lack of use (as happened to much of the Eastern System
lines), potential traffic should be sought and operations should start. If
ENFE is required to manage these operations, which are likely to result in
deficits in the early stages, the resulting losses should be compensated by
specific reimbursement and the finances of this line should be separated from
those of ENFE, until such time as the line becomes viable.
B.   Proposed
4.        The linking of the Eastern and Western Systems has often been
examined. Three alternative routes can be considered: (a) from Aiquile to
La Florida (about 250 km); (b) from Tarabuco to Cuevo (about 200 km), the
50-km section Cuevo-Boyuibe, having already been built for that purpose; and
(c) the connection of Cochabamba with the new line under construction from
Santa Rosa to Rio Yacapani at a point near the Rio Mamore. It should be
noted that the DMJM transport survey concluded that there was no economic



ANNEX 7
Page 2
justification for construction of this rail link within the immediate future
(the cost estimate of about US$30 million used seems on the low side when
compared with other lines). Construction of such a link should be undertaken
only if proved economically feasible.
October 1972



snr77JL
APPRAISAL OF A 9110I6_00  OJECT
Western_t.em  Frst_ht Traffic
A-ts7l1rorThiST-1771 and
_ro.le atd faor 19 72i1977
1969                      13            1971t                                     1372                 12731971_ 1975                                                  1976                       1977
Anorge                         Avo,r                                                                           197                                                     Average
Pr:d.cts                                Ton      Ton-Io)     Too    Too-Io        Hail.    Ton    Taon-_         Hail       Too    Ton-Ho)      Ton Ton-ko           Tar.   Ton-ILn      Ton   Too-kI          ToE    Ton-ki        Ton  ton-ko          Haul
loduatriil Co    tno dltll (oOO)   (nllliona)   (or u) 0n3L  _Lo                   k(koL    (o00) (millione)    -(h-Q)     2oa) (millions)   (0   (illione)         2X2  (alllione)    0      (millions)    .22O   (million))    (00  (tisliains)       (k)
Ors                                   177.3       56.O     171.3    54.1       3.1.      1.5.     1i6.7         296.6     Io,.3   49.7       173.4    52.7        186.9    55.8       201.7    58.9         215.4     62.0        226.9    65.1        266.9
Steel E tiling fir 2 2iot~0tLfl t    32.3          ri.5      2h.1      17.6     572.0     30.1+  11.2           361t.1       31,.6   16.0       30.2    20.5         41.1    21.5         03.1     22.6        45.3     23.7        47.2 24.7            522.8
Petrla--. pr-d-to                      12..       17.2      45 1.    1.n    105.7    611.7    19.7             2R6.7        47.R    13.4       51.6   20.9          55.7    19.9        6C.2    21.5          65.o     23.2         70.0   25.0         356.9
Ceent n-o.                                          5.'       n.0.     5.c       n.-.     i2.6      4 0          333.3       15.7     5.7       32.2    11.0         36.6     11.9       37.6      12.9        40.6     13.9         42.4    14.5        362.3
Timber                                  n.2.        7.3       1.3.    6.n        s.r.     20.0      7.3         22P.7        16.5     7.3       6.5      7.3         16.5      7.3       i6.5       7.3        16.5      7.3         16.5     7,3        443.0
Ch.mIoal pr-duto                        n.u         6.5       n.-.    5.2        0.2.     1S.l      4.7         3L1.2       22.7      6.5       21.7     6.5                                         5          1.7      6.5         21.7     6.5        300.0
Lnbrloainis                              4.1        1.7       8.9      3.2      620.0      2.0    20.8         41c.0         6.       1.9        6 4     7.1          6.6      2.3        4.7      2.5          4.7      2.6         4.7      2.6        553.2
Vehicles                                 6.7        3.7       3.1      1.6      552.2    l1.I.      6.0          39)5.0       6.7     3.7        7.0     3.9          7.4      4.1         7.8      4.3         8.2      4.5          8.5     4.7        551.7
Pap-r                                    6.2        2.16     11.0      6.1      717.7      9.9      2.6         262.6         9.6     2.7        9.8     2.9         10.3      3.0       1m7        3.1        11.2      3.3         11.6     3.4        292.7
LJr.'Ate,r                              0.0.        3.3         o.     3.0       noX.     L.7      3.1         299.2        11.0     3.3      1.7      3.5         12.0      3.6       12.7       3.8        13.3      4.0         14.0     4.2        300.0
Shi-0rnt                                ni.       123.3       .1I. 111.2          1..   34,9    i3..7            3-..1      326.9  116.2       367.5  131.3         391.0   135.9       416.8   1i3.5        641.9    151.0         463.5   158.0        340.8
ArrioulturIl Prodilot
Suger                                   a.a.        9.6       0.0.    11.r       n.e.       7.4      2.1         283 7       71.2     9.4       21.9     2.7         23.1     10.0        23.3     12.3        24.3     10.7         25,1    11.1        443.0
Flo-r1                                             10          _ '         .     1S.A;    L1.5    (n.l            Q.1        0,.0  A40.         96.0   48.8          94.0    67.8        92.0      46.7        90.0    45.7          90.0    45.7        508.3
What                                 32.3       2' 0      3i .S    1;.7:    62}1.6     17.9    20.)          6-4.6       36,0    23.6        672.1   37.5         67.1o 33.27         52.7     35.3         58.0     39.3        61.7    61.3         677.6
Poiat7. s..? 1                                                         171       9.0.       na  s-.              n.e.         9.0     1.9       13.2     2.8         17.0      3.6        21.2      6.5        24.9      5.3         28.2     6.0        212.9
Corn                                    0.0.        0                  0C.       n.a.      0.0.     0.5.         na.          0.9     0.4        1.9     0.6          0.9      0.1        0.9       0.6         0.9      0.4          0.9     0.4        443.0
Re0.                                                1 .                 n a .c n.l25                0.2,        0600          2.14   n08         2.6     n.8          2.7      0.9        2.7       0.9         3.0      1.0          3.0     1.0        333.3
Coff-                                    3.3         I        3.0      r.2 ?      t'.1      1.8      0.5         217. 2       3. 1    1.3        3.3     L.           6 1.64   I.S         4.9      1.8         5.1      1.9          5.4     2.0        370.39
F: ts                                   n.          S.0                5.l       nI..      16.7      5.5        3. .3        11.2    7.'1       24.1    8.5          28.1     10.0        33.0    11.6         37.5     13.1         41.8   14.7         352.0
Cat.l- ".. I                                                             5       n ..      1.9       o.6         311.3         -       -         _
Da.;y P-do-tc                            5.'.       2.3        -        .        620.)       .7      1.6         3;la.        5.lJ    2.3        0.0    2.1           1.8       1.2        4.6      1.2         6.4       1.1         4.4     1.1        251.0
Subtotal                                no,         80        n S    7,.1        0.0.    2)2.6       9.7        4h)3.3     117)   96.5        ?0.s   12.0(          022.7   106.9       730.3    112.7       248.i  1L8.5         259.f   123.3        474.5
OLter Cono-iitlse                       0.3.       6.                 66.0        0.0.    34 '.3    57.7         16'.9      361.3    51.7      310.3    5t.7         3:57.3   07.7       341.3     07.7       34X0.3    57.7        340.3    57.7        169.9
iTJ2A                                   n.j.      'S .    *       *     /7 r/. n.s i.    05       262.1         P81t.7    770.4 01 17.1  0L.0 4,                           * 3(20.5    op-.4    313..3     133(1.3   327.2       1063.6   330.0        318.7
D:~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ tni -r I                                          I-



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PFRIJECT
Zas an SoteZ, ' Frei ght Traffic
AcOsa for 196-171 mnd
Projected for 1472-1t6
1969                        1970                        1971                      1972              1973               1974               1975                   1976
Aver.jr                     Arerago                     A"erage                                                                                                                      AOr
Too     Ton-k,     Ha1    Ton       To-Io,u HTon        Ton     To-k.    Haul Ton            Ton-k.     Tm      Tm ul      Ton     Ton-koTn  TTo      Ton-km    Ton Tom n   -km     Tx4   T?n-km        Haul
Commodity                         (O0)  (millions   I.)    Lp10)  illione)   (k,)   (090)  (o1111on)   (I-) 2           oo.   (milliosm)   11  (ml  lio              (llions) ((        (millions)  (00 (milliona)  (000)  (tillion.)   (km)
lnKtustrial Co_odities
Tinte                             16.8       6.1      391.c   21.7        9.1    417.1    31.3    15.2   4V5.6    24.7    11.3           27.8      13.9    30.9        16.7     34.0      19.7    37.0      23.0       40.0     24.9      621.6
Celient                           21.0      1C.7      509.5     3.4       1.4    429.3       1.8      C.6    333.3        -        -        -         -         -             -         -         -             -        -        -          -
Iron & steel for constructin       3.8       1.0      500.C     5.7       3.0    516.0       3.7      2.C    540.5       4.5      2.3      4.7       2.4      5 .        2.5      5.2       2.7      5.5      2.8        5.8      3.0      512.0
Tubing                            59.3      26.3      451 1    3.6       1.2      337.3     55.4     13.4    241.8        -        -        -         -         -         -                                                          -  -  -
Petroleum products                                                         -         -       3.R      1.3    342.1       1.5      1.0      1.6       1.1      1.8        1.1      1.9       1.2      2.0      1.3        2.2      1.4      651.0
Asphalt                            1.4       o.9      539.0    0.9         . 4    530 .      5.2      2.8    538.4       3.0      1.6      3.0        1.6      3.0       1.6      3.0       1.6      3.0       1.6       3.C       L.6      539.Q
Total Industrial Comodities      101.3      46.1      455.1   35.2       15.1     Z29.C   101.2      15.3    319.8    33.7    16.2        37.1       19.0    40.7       21.9    44.1       25.2    47.5      28.7       51.0     30.j      605.9
Agrionltwral Commodities
Cotton                             0.5       0.3      539.0    1.G        0.6     539.0      7.1      4.0    563.3    26.1    15.7        35.0       20.8    40.0       23.8     45.0      26.8    50.o       29.8      58.0     34.5      595.0
Fruits                             1.9       1.0      539.C     1.a       1.C     510.c      1.4      0.7    500.0       2.0      1.1      4.0       2.2      6.o        3.2      8.0       4.3    10.0       5.4       12.10     6.5      539.0
Flour                             15.C       7.8      517.9   13.0        6.1    106.2    21.5       12.8    522.4    15.0        7.5     10.0       5.4      5.0        2.7       -         -        -         -        _         _          _
Sugar                              C.5       C.2       427.5    9.. 3      .3     523.4      6.8      3.6    520.1    1C.C        5.4     10.0        5.4    10.0        5.4     10.0       5.4    10.0        5.1       0.       5.4      539.0
Cattle                            16.7       7.8      467.0   13.2        5.r     377.r      9.1I     1.2    34C.1    16.7        7.R     1R.4        8.6    20.2        9.5     22.2      10.4    24.5      11.4       26.9     12.5      465.3
Total Agr-lw.ral Cowswoditlie     31.6      17.1      101.2    37.3      17.3 1    67.P    10.2    24.3    473.         70.1    37.5      77.1      12.4    81.2        44.6    85.2       46.9    94.5      52.0      106.9   5.9        550.9
Other Product                     60.5      28.9      411.1    67.0      27./     Lil.      6S.1     26.0    399.3    59.5    2R.q        72.6       30.1    75.9       31.5     79.3      32.9    82.9    31.3         86.6    31.9       4111.
2RAND OT0AL                      205.1      02.C      017.0  1I,, .3     61.      120.0   ?1S.5      a5.6   3907.2   :73.3       82.5    197.0       01.5   1Q7.9       98.0   208.6    105.0    224.9   115.0         244.5    125.7       514.1
^ct31w 1972



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Underlying Assumptions for the
Sectoral Traffic Forecast
1.        Western System
1.1       Industrial Commodities
1.1.1     Ores
Ores production was estimated based on the report "Estudio Integral
de los Transportas en Bolivia" prepared by Daniel, Mann, Johnson and Mendenhall.
An origin and destination matrix for 1977 was prepared. Rail transport of
ores amounted to 47 million ton-km in 1971, and is expected to reach 65.1
million ton-km in 1977, 5.7% growth rate per annum. The seven mineral
commodities taken into account were tin, lead, antimony, wolfram, copper,
zinc and bismuth, of which tin production is by far the most important.
Bolivia's mineral deposits occur along the entire length of the Eastern Andes
from Lake Titicaca to the Argentine border, and the original railway running
the length of the country was developed primarily to serve the major mining
districts. The railway carried 90% of total mineral traffic to the ports
in 1969.
1.1.2     Steel and Tubing for Construction
Imports of steel and tubes for construction increased from 21,600
tons in 1962 to 63,200 tons in 1969, out of which the railway carried 65% or
41,080 tons on both networks. However, the general slowdown in the construction
industry resulted in a decrease in rail transport on the Western System from
19.5 million ton-km in 1969 to an estimated figure of 11.2 million ton-km in
1971. If the economy returns to its normal level of activity (i.e., invest-
ments), rail transport of these commodities should reach 47,200 tons (or 24.7
million ton-km) in 1977.
1.1.3     Petroleum Products
Oil fields are located in the region of Santa Cruz. The overall
transport of crude oil is handled by pipeline, either toward Argentina and
Chile for export, or to the refineries of Sucre, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba.
Based on the refineries' production and an origin-destination matrix regarding
the products' distribution, rail transport should go up from 19.7 million
ton-km in 1971 to 25.0 million ton-km in 1977.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 2
1.1.4     Cement
Forecast of traffic was based on production estimates for the
plants of Sucre, Viacha and Coboce (the latter started operation in 1972),
and taking into account the fact that only cement to Oruro, Potosi, and La
Paz will go by rail. The large increase in transport by rail is due to the
start of operations at the Coboce plant, in the vicinity of Cochabamba and
virtually on the railway line.
1.1.5     Timber
Traffic for local consumption of timber is handled both by rail
and trucks. The difficulty in exercising railway advantages in carrying
this type of traffic lies in the lack of rail connection between Santa Cruz --
the production area - and Cochabamba on the Western System. Despite improve-
ments expected in loading trains in Cochabamba, it was assumed that timber
transport by rail will remain constant at its 1971 level.
1.1.6     Chemical Products
In 1969, ENFE handled 6.5 million ton-km of chemical products.
Plans for a new phosphate fertilizer plant near Oruro and a magnesite process-
ing plant near Cochabamba were not taken into account and the traffic ex-
pected in 1977 is retained at 6.5 million ton-km.
1.1.7     Lubricants
At present, the transport of lubricants is handled mainly by truck.
With the improvements to the track, and a more aggressive commercial policy
by ENFE, it can be expected that, in 1976, 50% of the traffic between
Cochabamba and Oruro and La Paz will be handled by rail. In addition, the
import of 2,500 tons of basic oils from Antofagasta to Cochabamba, as
anticipated by YPFB (Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos), should
also be carried by ENFE, thus increasing rail traffic in this category from
0.8 million ton-km in 1971 to 2.6 million ton-km in 1977.
1.1.8     Vehicles
During the period 1969-1971, the average transport by rail was
about 6,700 tons. This figure has been assumed for 1972 rail transport with
an annual growth rate of about 5% thereafter.
1.1.9     Paper and Office Supplies
The Ministry of Planning anticipates an increase of about 4% per
year in demand for these products and this rate was applied to the expected
traffic in 1972 assuming that total railway share (90%) and distribution of
traffic among ports remain the same.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 3
1.1.10    Lime and Plaster
Transport of lime and plaster is expected to grow beyond 1972 at
about 5% annually (same rate of growth as that for other construction
materials) and reach about 14,000 tons (4.2 million ton-km) in 1977.
1.2       Agricultural Products
1.2.1     Sugar
Sugar production is concentrated in four plants located in the
region of Santa Cruz. Based on the estimates of "Comision Nacional de
Estudios de la Cana de Azucar" the consumption of sugar in La Paz area in
1976 should reach about 50,000 tons. The lower rates on the railway between
Cochabamba and La Paz, coupled with provision of better loading facilities
in Cochabamba, should enable the railway to carry about 50% of sugar trans-
port on this line (equivalent to 10.7 million ton-km).. Beyond 1976, rail
transport should grow at 4% annually.
1.2.2     Flour
Local production, although rising, does not meet the country's needs,
and imports of 90,000 tons (and wholly by rail), are anticipated in 1976
according to "Direccion General de Comercio e Integracion". On the basis of
various import points and the minimum route to each consumption center, the
traffic will amount to 45.7 million ton-km or about 14% of total traffic
by rail in that year. This is less than the 1971 level of traffic and is
due to the increase expected in flour production, mainly in the Santa Cruz
area. In 1977 imports are expected to maintain their 1976 level.
1.2.3     Wheat
Wheat production is inadequate to cover the demand, and the Ministry
of Agriculture projects imports of about 81,000 tons of wheat by 1977. Should
imports via Matarani (Peru) account for 25% of the total and not be trans-
ported by ENFE, total rail transport would amount to 61,000 tons or 41.3
million ton-km in 1977 (22,700 tons to La Paz, 18,800 tons to Cochabamba
and 19,500 tons to Oruro), comprising about 12% of total rail traffic in the
West.
1.2.4     Potatoes
The potato production is entirely for consumption within Bolivia.
The Ministry of Agriculture intends to increase production in the Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz areas where yields are higher, and this will introduce a
deficit in La Paz area, making way for an increase in rail transport from
1.1 in 1970 to 6.0 million ton-km in 1977.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 4
1.2.5     Corn
Bolivia's needs are met by domestic corn production, with 35%
being marketed commercially, mostly by truck to La Paz region. Since the
truck owners take part in the marketing of this commodity, it is unlikely
that the railway can capture any additional traffic.
1.2.6     Rice
Most of the rice dealers haul their production with their own
trucks. The 1977 forecast assumes that about 3,000 tons will be hauled by
rail from Cochabamba (i.e., coming from Santa Cruz) to La Paz and Oruro.
1.2.7     Coffee
In 1970, coffee production reached 11,200 tons with exports of
3,600 tons.  The internal transport from the Yungas region to La Paz is done
by truck.  If the anticipation of an export quota of 5,400 in 1977 material-
izes, traffic on ENFE lines should reach 2.0 million ton-km.
1.2.8     Fruits
The main fruits to be hauled on the Western System are bananas and
oranges for exports. Internal transport of bananas and oranges will continue
to be handled by truck. The estimates of banana exports by the Ministry of
Agriculture were reduced from 50,000 tons of exports on both systems to
20,000 tons (10,000 on the Western System) as being more realistic; 5,000
tons of oranges are expected to be exported in 1976 via Arica. In addition,
the railway should be able, with adequate cars, to handle 50% of the transport
of "platanos" between Cochabamba and La Paz. The 1977 forecast assumes 4%
growth in exports over 1976.
1.2.9     Cattle
Transport of cattle in 1971 amounted to 0.6 million ton-km on the
Western System. Due to the distance from the production areas, mainly the
Beni and Santa-Cruz, and to the anticipated decrease in imports by rail from
Argentina with the expansion of Bolivia livestock, the traffic forecast does
not show any cattle transport on the Western System in 1977.
1.2.10    Dairy Products
At present, the railway hauls about 5,000 tons of imported powdered
and condensed milk from Antofagasta to La Paz. In the future, these imports
will decrease due to the supply of powdered milk from Cochabamba, and the
traffic forecast shows a decrease in transport by rail for dairy products.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 5
1.2.11    Other Products
Rail transport of all other commodities has declined in the last
two years, due to increasing road competition for these commodities. Al-
though better loading facilities and better services are expected on the
railways as a result of the investment plan, it is assumed that rail traffic
woill stay constant at the 1971 level.
2.        Eastern System
2.1       Industrial Commodities
2.1.1     Timber
The Santa Cruz area is well forested and timber is one of the most
promising export products in Bolivia. Exports of timber from Santa Cruz to
Argentina (via Yacuiba) and to Brazil are projected by the Yiinistry of Agri-
culture to reach a level of 40,000 tons in 1977, as compared with 22,000 tons
in 1970. This gives an overall transport of 23.0 million ton-km, all to be
carried by rail, in view of the lack of roads in this part of the country.
2.1.2     Cement
No imported cement traffic is retained for 1976 based on the start
of production of the Coboce plant (see cement traffic forecast for the
Western System). It is assumed that all consumption in the Santa-Cruz region
will be provided by the Sucre plant.
2.1.3     Iron and Steel for Construction
Imports by rail in this category amounted to 3,700 tons (2.0
million ton-km) on the Eastern System in 1971. It is assumed that transport
of this product will grow at an average rate of 5% per annum (same growth
rate as in the West), reaching a level of 5,800 tons and 3.0 million ton-km
in 1977.
2.1.4     Tubing
In 1971, the Eastern System hauled 13.4 million ton-km (55,400
tons) of imported tubing to be used in building the gas pipeline to Argentina.
The pipeline has been completed and no traffic in this category is expected
in the period 1972-1977.
2.1.5     Petroleum Products
YPFB is building a storage center in Corumba to cater for the
consumption of that region. Present annual consumption is estimated at
1,500 tons or 1 million ton-km (distance from Corumba to Santa Cruz is 651
km). An 8% annual increase from 1972 gives 2,200 tons in 1977, corresponding
to 1.4 million ton-km.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 6
2.1.6     Asphalt
YPFB expects to import 400 tons of asphalt per month to be used
mainly in the improvement of the road from Santa Cruz to Cochabamba. Since
this figure is not certain, an estimate of 3,000 tons (1.6 million ton-km)
was retained for 1977. (Average annual transport in the period 1969-1971
was about 2,500 tons.)
2.2       Agricultural Products
2.2.1     Cotton
A loan of US$10 million was recently given by a consortium in-
cluding First National City Bank and Banco Do Brazil for the development of
cotton in the Santa Cruz region. The cotton producing area increased from
6,000 hectares in 1968 to 17,250 hectares in 1970, and is estimated at 45,000
hectares in 1972, and there are no marketing problems (indications are that
potential customers are ready to buy at reasonable prices all the production
for the next five years). Production will amount to 31,000 tons in 1972, out
of which 4,600 tons will be for internal consumption and will be carried
by trucks. Export traffic will reach 26,400 tons or 15.7 million ton-km
(assuming 50% via Argentina and 50% via Brazil).  Although First National
estimates a doubling of production by 1973, the following more conservative
forecasts for exports were retained: 35,000 tons in 1973 increasing to
58,000 tons (34.5 million ton-km) in 1977.
2.2.2     Fruits
The Ministry of Agriculture estimates that, by 1977, 20,000 tons of
bananas will be exported to Argentina from the Santa Cruz region. The
forecast for rail traffic has been conservatively reduced to 12,000 tons
or 6.5 million ton-km. Transport of this produce by rail will require
modifications to box-cars to prevent damage to the fruits but this should not
present special problems.
2.2.3     Flour
At present 25,000 tons of flour are imported by rail from Argentina.
The installation of a mill in Santa Cruz and growth of wheat crops in the
area will eliminate the need to import flour to the Santa Cruz area, and from
1975 onward no rail traffic is expected in this category.
2.2.4     Sugar
A sugar quota of 10,000 tons will be exported in 1977 to the
United States via Rosario (Argentina). This transport froim Santa Cruz on the
Eastern System will result in a traffic of 5.4 million ton-km.



ANNEX 8 (c)
Page 7
2.2.5     Cattle
Cattle are hauled by rail from the Corumba area to slaughterhouses
in Santa Cruz or for further transport to Cochabamba by trucks. The expan-
sion of meat production should increase this traffic on the Eastern System.
Estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture are for a 10% annual increase in
production over the period 1972-1976.  Thus, total tonnage shipped by rail
(assuming the same annual rate of increase and 1972 traffic at the 1969 level)
will be 27,000 tons in 1977 or 12.5 million ton-km.
2,2.6     Other Products
Traffic is expected to reach a level of 70,000 tons in 1972 and,
with the lack of road competition, should grow annually at 4.5%.
October 1972






ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Macro-Economic Moctel for
F6recasting Traffic on the
Western System
The regression used for this analysis relates total ton-Ian
hauled on the Western System to GDP (in 1958 prices) in four main sectors:
(agriculture, mining, construction, manufacturing) and to average revenue
per ton-km in constant prices in the following form:
TK  =  K (GDP)  (AR)@
where:   TK  =  Total ton-km
GDP = Gross Domestic Product as
defined above
f = ELasticity of TK to GDP
AR  = Average Revenue per ton-km
in constant prices
8 = Elasticity of TK to AR
The data used for the Western System cover  the years 1960-1969:
(in millions)           (in million $b)                (in $b)
Year           TK            GDP (in 4 main sectors)         AR in 1958 Prices
1-960         13i.7                    2059                        0.251
1961          175.4                    2094                        0.237
1962          190.0                    2180                        0.215
1963          221.7                    2349                        0.190
1964          197.2                    2446                        0.182
1965          246.8                    2654                        0.181
1966          231.6                    2810                        0.198
1967          258.0                    2966                        0.181
1968          268.0                   3155                         0.163
1969          280.9                    3286                        0.163
The main results are:
(1) f = 0.69
8 = -0.52
(2) The coefficients are statistically significant
(3) The multiple correlation is 0.96
These coefficients were used to predict future freight traffic on
the Western System and compare it with the results of the sectoral traffic
analysis.
December 1971



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Pftal 1!r Trsrffti  by Category of Service
Actual for 1965-1971 and Projections for 1972-1977
TRAINS                                                              AUTOCARRILB                              F     BROU9 ES U2TA1
lot   Class                         2nd   Class                            Total                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
P1/         P1(/    R 3/ t   P                   PR      _                 Po         tl p  3R                  p            PK     E                 P           PK                        P           P
Western Network
1965                   ILL          36          249        1,153        124           138        1,297        160          123         17             6          349          -             -           _         1,314         166          126
1966                   112          31          279          852        120           140         .96L        151          156        268            21           78          -                         -         1,232        172           140
1967                    97          28          290          836        123          i1I7          933        151          162        278            25           90         12             5         423         1,223         le          148
1968                    66          16          245          783        112           143          849        128          151        214            11           49        150            60         400         1,213         1919         164
1969                    82          15          l8B          622          96          154          704        111          157         83             5           65        177            76         432           964         192          200
1970                    79          15          193          642        100           156          721        115          16o         75             5           69        206            90         437         1,002         210          210
1971                    83          27          325          601        113           187          684        140          204         66             5           81        164            65         397           914         210          230
1972                    20           9          L49          739        llB           160          759        127          168          -             -            -        250           86          343         1,009         213          211
1973                   20            9           449         728        119           164          7L8        128          172           -            -            -        262            90         343         1,010         218          216
1974                    20           9           449          718        121          168          738        130          176           -            _            -        274            94         343         1,012         224          221
1975                    21           9          L49           708       122           172          729        131          180          -      -                   -        287            99         343         1,016         230          226
1976                    21           9          449          699        123           176          720        132          184           -            _            -        301          103          343         1 021                      231
17                      7 21         ,          t,p          5il                                              133           97          -             -                     315           i3          343         1026         24            235
Fastern Network
1965                    23           5          234          269          39          145          292         44          152         24             3          122          -             -           -           316          47          150
1966                    39          10          264          236          ho          170          275         50          184          27            4          126          -             -           -           302          54          178
1967                    23           6          278           197         32          159          220         38          171          18            3          180          -             -           -           238          41          172
1968                    21           4          177          159          28          180          179         32          180          6             2          311         41            16         380           226          50          219
1969                    33           5          165           173         38          218          206         43          210           5            2          365         46            iB         390           257          63          245
1970                    22           5          245          159         31           215          181         39          218           9            3          392         38            16         415           228          58          258
1971                    1S           5          344           162        31           211          177         39          222           6            2          385          11           18         4;5           224          59          265
1972                     5           3          539           176         39          220          181         42          230           -                         -         48            20         416           229          62          270
1973                     6           3          539           181         41          225          187         44          234           -            -            -         51            21         416           238          65          273
*1974                    6            3          539          186         43          230          192          46          240          -            -             -         54           22         416            246         68          278
1975                     6           3          539          191          15          235          197         48          245           -            -            -         57            24         416           254          72          283
1976                     7           4          539          197          L7          240          204         51          250           -            -            -         59            25         416           263          76          287
197/                     7           1,         53,           2:3          '          2741         21          53           252          -            -            -         62            26         416           272          79          290
1/  P       Nuriber of Passengers (tBousands)
2/  PK      Number of passenger-km (millions)
3/  R       Average Trip (in ko)
Octo.zr 0)12



A1P22413kL WTKI2MAY P93380T
(1967 to l9teov    679'FSitea
2=                  ~~~~1967                                   198                                  1969                               9970                                 .                         tbJ.oe
I. SYSTEK 1,"TTL                                                                                                        wTU                                                                                         O 
9-411--b,                                  Ia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  2.101  0,222          3,323           2,101      1,222    3,3203            2,101   1,222    3,323            2,101.    1,222    3,323           2,101    1,228      3,323       2,024    1,282        3,246
Passenger ourid                                            22              1,333       233         1,i.61           1,213                LAP143            961,     257    1,221           1,002       228    1,230             914-      224    1,138        1D08'        272      1,296
Pas-kr,                                                  Miit  n            181        41           192              1<29        51       24,9             192       63       255           210         58       268           212        59       269          241        79        320
Averag   .ie.r-,y                                         K.                14,8      172            152             164        330       173              230      245       209           3101       256       218           230       265        23?         235       290        247
FreIght oat tins   r-ied-  R.,en-  aeraing 2/             0(3               899       i09         1, 037             932        1 03    1,736              281,     205    1,189            936       13.0    3,076            906       215    1,121         1,064       244      1,308
Freight net toek.P-       -.-aoo  earnin,g                allOs,            258        11           299              266         39       307              281       92       373           258         60       318           261         86      347          339       126        486
Averge haul                                               K.,               257       380            297             287        373       297              287      41,8      313           275       4,30       295           288       400        310         319       514,       356
Traffi L.,nLs - Tatn1                                                       439        32           521              467         89       556              473      195       638           466        138       586           471       11,        616         580       205        785
III. TRAFFIr? DE033IT
T.7;T-o',-'-rt-6n                                        bOo                86        33             4s94                       21        75               92       52        77           1031       48         8l           100        49         81         11.9       65         99
Frei,ght ton-ks p-r tot--,00                                                1-         31,            20             127         30         93             133       77       179            133.       s0        96           124         70       102.        167       103        14Q
P- Peger-                                     313                                                                                             632)       80      710                                                                               560         8o        640
-Freight                                      3m0                                                                                           1,360      670    2,030                                                                              1,700        860      2,390
-TOtn                                         200                                                                                           1,980       750    2,742                                                                             2,260        730      2,990
Gros  to-km  - Ps-eger                                   aillion                                                                                          189,      33       222                                                                               180        34         231
- Freight                                   5Inn983                                                                                                 296       849                                                                                734       322      1,056
- Toit.1llo                                                                                                                                782      289    1,071                                                                                911        256      1,270
Ors-  loai if freight tirat                              toe                                                                                              1,35     380       2g8                                                                               432       495        1,9
Net load of freight train                                ton                                                                                              266      13 7      184                                                                               199       194,        196
V.  Ep33020T12r  OP S7TOCK
Jukeo  te.   4nostxa  i   le                                       9       14           133               Bo         ,1       1798,                      2         17!           95         37        92             55        37        92          ---
N..he-  of stew  1sis-tts-  is sprstion 151                                         98             79              32         16        48                36      17         53           32         22        54            32         22        54          ---
Nn-h-r-,if aai  Iiid  ieoo    I.......l -                                  -        -              -               22          5        29                20       5         25           22          5        25             20         5        25          29           9         38
kvat0lohylt  9                                                                                                                                            75      60         72            75        60        72             8o        60        76          85          85        85
Halo    1-. diciol engie-ks~~. pa- srieabla             000                                                                                               63      96         69            64        71        65                                             95        no           8
8o-b.,rod -eoal-ittrs-                                                              -              -i1                         2        13                10       2         12            10         2        12             10         2        12          31           3         14
kA-ilabiltty 9                                                                                                                                            90    100i         92            56        56        56             60                              65          65         85
hae    f pasegr  ar-                                                130       68             108g             130         60       195               130)    68         198          130        66       198            130       68        198           51         22          73
A-eeilnhhh;ty 6                                         2~~~~           ~      ~~~~~                                          ~       ~ ~~~~~~6 18  77  61  60~    91  63                                                                   85         85         85
So-lea-of rnosouenarntng  frog'.; 'er-i              l~~~~~,26i,  ',2.        0, 710         I0,37         484      1,843            1,359    2,84      1,843         1,359i      484    1,943           1,359      484      1,843       1,360         Sto      1,870
....... 0  er  9-oThfegi.'r-                                                361           L, 373                               1,37I             1,056    315       1,371                             1,370         1,09        289      1,380       1,24o         460      1,700
Oa-i0l otrip. 8                                                           72       (3              7                                     69               78      65          75                               74             So       6o         75           91         90         91
Pr-s gh' -,' to-knp, r- ,o    sal' ior per  -   7er-   7001                                                                                                                 223                                                                                                     273
fr,-tSr~ of-ployee-                                                        1,719      932          0,79o            4,737        9222    6,752             4,732  1,011       6,705                             6,660         9,123   1,334        6,457       1.,400     1,100       5.200
Tr-ffic a-rts Per.,     tie      olOi                                                              93                                   39                                  lOt                                                       109         95                                143
I/  Syste-  W. Went, t- S:ten;   -9-ats-u syat-n
2/  Rot1,-k,: 1911  'ugui-  -su-: Ire rls          of Se-s-Tar.-n   n line '77 k.51
F-Ie gnt net tone  1967 no 1971 figr-on  -rlg   on            tt 1-   un H-'.1, nI a-  rlo-,f,r-   ;-n   -lot:i -14,lih..
Steen 1oosti-o~asue  phuetig n-t of st.e by 0977.
1Pinesngo  oa-n  1970 figure 1-cisde 12 6c-,tng  1o-i  7 s-I.ei   ehii-lo, 19 u-nno--  and  39 tagog.gvni  137 figrinn-,r-ne., ol irest passen ger- ryngnhie   (e-nidtng diesel ril4 oar,).
1'/  PrZo,uti:ty of fr-sight rare: 1962 f-gu--  olsotn.70~   i-uoi-iou  'as irb,,  brre ye ~no  310 rar  roto   in if- O, Cils, Arg-tina and Brootl; 0377 figao   esee   pr-sduotttoy.ef 300,000 ton-kspe- sarto..abl ec nar;
0/  NW0b~-  i -spIoyesn  1961 to, 1970 Ciga-onc- is~, in "Tital<, th   eir-   a,lra
linte:   An,y blank nias ii i06 7-197L dat, refl-rti  n--lLabtllty nf tns  lt.tetiral -Solo-
ntob-r 1972






ANNEX 12
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Scope of Phase II Technical Assistance Services to ENFE
Terms of Reference for Phase II have been agreed on between UNDP,
ENFE and the Association; briefly, the purpose of Phase II services is to
assist ENFE in the continuation of its efforts to rehabilitate the railways
by improving management and operational methods and by training personnel at
all levels. In line with this, SOFRERAIL will continue to provide the tech-
nical assistance and the Association will continue to be the executing agency.
The duration of the services, 21 months, comprises 178 man-months
(as detailed on the bar chart attached), of which 39 man-months are required
for the four experts (F, G, H, and I) working on procurement, accounting,
computer requirements and personnel management, the need for which was
revealed during the Phase I scheme. The remainder is a continuation of the
present scheme, but with more emphasis placed on assistance and training at
the working level (experts J - R).
The advisory services to be provided in the various fields can be
summarized as follows:
1.  Maintenance of Rolling Stock
(a) Maintenance methods: to prepare detailed instructions applica-
ble to the various categories of equipment and to assist in
implementing the maintenance operations accordingly;
(b) Concentration of workshops: to assist ENFE in implementing
the concentration of repair work at Viacha (repair of diesel
motive power for both the Eastern and Western Systems), Uyuni
and Robore (repair of passenger and freight cars, respec-
tively, for the Western and Eastern Systems). Parallel to
this concentration of repair work, to assist ENFE in implement-
ing the gradual closing of Cochabamba, Sucre and Potosi workshops,
and the conversion of Oruro, Tupiza and Santa Cruz workshop into
running sheds;
(c) Modernization of workshops: to assist ENFE in implementing
the modernization, reorganization and re-equipment programs
of the three main shops by setting up modern repair lines
for each type of equipment.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
2.   Track Improvement and Maintenance:  to assist ENFE in extending
track rehabilitation and periodic maintenance schemes to an
additional 13 zones during 1973 and to all 150 zones of ENFE by
the end of 1974.
3.   Operations
(a) Train control offices: to assist ENFE in establishing a
subtraffic control office at Uyuni;
(b) Freight car allocation: to assist ENFE in the operation of
car allocation centers, located in the traffic control offices;
(c) Diesel traction operations: to assist ENFE in (i) completing
the study of driver and engine utilization statistics to ob-
tain a clearer picture of motive power operations; (ii) imple-
menting engine and driver rosters on both systems to obtain a
better utilization of motive power and personnel; and (iii) re-
organizing the diesel running sheds;
(d) Marshalling yards: to assist ENFE in the implementation of
the new organization which was recommended.
4.   Tariffs - Commercial Policy
(a) to assist ENFE in making the relevant decisions regarding the
adoption of a simplified tariff structure, and in enforcing
the new structure which has been set up;
(b)  to assist ENFE in organizing the recently created Commercial
Department, in determining its policy, in recruiting and
training its staff, and in instilling in the staff an adequate
and aggressive "commercial spirit".
5.   Procurement
(a) to assist ENFE in setting up a modern stores and supplies
system and an efficient procurement mechanism;
(b) to assist ENFE in preparing lists of spare parts and materials
required for the rehabilitation and the periodic maintenance
programs.
6.   Accounting:  to assist ENFE in modernizing its balance sheets, in
adopting more realistic values for fixed assets and depreciation,
in revising the accounting system to present operating expenses
in the usually accepted railway form and in training of accounting
personnel.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
7.   Computer:  to evaluate ENFE's requirements and make recommendations
concerning the continued use of or substitution of ENFE's computer.
8.   Personnel Management
(a) to study the problems of personnel management, recruitment,
social and other benefits and propose a coherent personnel
policy;
(b) to assist ENFE in implementing the adopted policy.
9.   Telecommunications
(a) to evaluate ENFE's requirements and make recommendations
for the improvement of telecommunications;
(b) to prepare specifications for needed equipment.
October 1972






BOLIVIA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENFE - PHASE 11
BAR CHART DIAGRAM
1972                                       1973                                           1974                 Man-Months   Working
Experts             PositionlAgSpOc-o   e                                                                                                                              n  il          asi
ExpernJul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul                             Ho m DayO in
A      Supervision                                                                                                                                                        2            40
Home Office Staff                                                                                                                                                 -            80
B      Head Mission                      III Nov selI  _          _    _    _     _    _    _  _         _                                                               15
Traffic Operations
C      Maintenance Rolling Stock         Ill  ElU 3g o       _                                                                                                           20
D      Tariffs Commercial Policy        11 11  U    _   _             _     _     _                                                                                       6
E      Maintenance and Improvement    331  1   3I3
of Track                                                                                                                                                        3
F      Procurement and Stocks                                         _    _   _          - _       _              _   _   _                                             12
*      Accounting                                                                    _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _    _                                             12
H      Computer                                                                                                                                                           7
I      Personnel Management                                                                                                                                               a _    _  8
J      Maintenance - Diesel Power    |99  mu.  m   -                                                                                                                     14
K      Mainzenance   Cars               IE9E E9lig I                                                                                                                      4
L      Maintenance   Wagons             **ol *** II* I                                                                                                                    6
M      Maintenance   Track               331  III       _ _    _   _                                                                                                     18
N      Maintenance   Track                                             -16
O      Maintenance -Track                                              -        -         -    - -       -                   -    - -                                    16
P      Diesel Traction Operation                                            -   -   - _   _   _                                                                           8
Q      Station Organization                  i    13 _   _ _ _   _ _ 8
R      Telecommunications                                                                                                                                                 3
Phase I
2nd |178                                                                                                                                120
___________________________________I Amendment
Starting date
Phase I I                                                                                                                              World Bank-7175
Novermber 1972






B3OPLtA
APRASA lO A3 WPAY PRAJECT                                                           .  a       unit. million
_2_              ___        _*S1.00 - Sb 12.00
u 1            r                 ~~~~~~~1473        9            7h                               19751976                                                               1977
io Tt L -loal  Fo~rign        Tota           a oeg             oi         T7TFoagh              Total        LclFrI,                   oa
i~  ~ T5~ ib                                          6 W      Sb 7$IVfb U                             *    1U                  S        9$   W            E       S    8* 1                 U
.Trac  rnvtion eat-1ia                                                 3-50       0.1,.7             55       6.5"1  .14       7.99   .67    6.30    .29   9.78  .82          6.3    .29        9.78    .82   6.30        .29    9.78   .62   6.30         .30      9.90      .82
2.  Balntlogti                                                             5.63      .3        .4,7     .7        -      -         .     -       -       .16   1.92  .16         1.93    .1.6     3.75    .16   1.90         -      1.90   .16   1.90         -       1.90       .16
3.  Tao, and eqip-t-                                                                           .8        2              .03       .38   .02      -       .06     .76  .08R        -      .-1      .18    . 01    -        .01      .48   .01    -        .04       .48     .04
4. strootor  reinfr-enrot                                                 o         .17                                                         1  .5 .  .5 .0  4  .09    L.9   .16  .1    .06  1.20    .10    .66       .08    1.62   .14       .76      .10      I. 96      .16
5.  Iep-orret o f 0-r-CaNnob-ba lion                                      3.)        j36    3'.32      5...!    7Ol    *)       60  .76    7.15          .19   9.16  .77         9.0      -       9.0       7    8o          -      87      .6     200        -       2.00       .7
6. station  taciiti-n                                                      1.5                MD 39     J32    ,.) '9    0       .     .07      .20    .05    .80  .07           .20   .0        .68    .06    .1        .03      .6 .6          .0       .03       .76       .0
7 .  Bhalli,ng. oqip-nt                                                    9.0        '      .5        .30     1.,9    .TO       MO   .00    1.00    .10   2.20  .08            1.00   .10       2.20     .18   2.500      .20    4.960  .121   2.450       .20      4.910    .41
8.  Telroonvonications                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.32  .50  8. L   .7)  -                      -    .7 3      .12   1.67  .i14         .1    .12       j15~ 3                    .12    IOy A           22      ...I      .2A&      I2
bs"Way and Wo-k.-                                             WU5       $17    0) 337      11  1            717    T77   E        1.3-1   CI   5817I  9738         flT2   11    _88          21   20.01       .7T7      91    74    1.9         .0      2.9       20
Total  03  7o1  '3  1,  77
1....io'4,n   Io.o,r              O     --           -        -            1.9       10       .6----                                                                    -     2.10    25.20   2.10    -          2.40   28.81  2.40      --                 --
2.  Rail tr.','33                                    0-                             .90    isSo        .90      -      ---                              .90  i9.80  .90          -       -        -         -     -        -         -     -       --                            -
5.  hoot' ~~~~~~~~.o1' ~~~~~n.-  3  . ~ ~ ~~ ---               .530       3.60       .30            .155     1.20   .10   __          .20   2.40  .20         -       -        -        -               -        -      -       --                 --
T uo  'Mor.,o. 2)4,,.'                          7      3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~735  VUij  573  .0n  -lo .1     110  12.20 1.-10        rz57             m5s    si                  s      2TM      .17'
Total  73  .2.  '0  76  7'~ ~ ~~~~7925.0                                                                                                                                                  7
2.  Fra.6.t  0~~~~~~~~~~~0         - ~~257   9  2"            -       9.60   0)7.70      n.6o                                             2.17  28.80 2.40         -    2.40    78.80   2.1o    -        3.00   36.00  3.0         -         .0      160      18
0   Scoonog..-  -ad            70~~~~~~~2     20                          1.00     18.00o    1.00                                                                      1.50    18.06)   L.5o                        -      -       -               
3.  Saoc                                  725                                          t
Total  'Roilig Otoco'                                                         .10     2.40       .20                                              20                                210       .0      -        -        -      -       .                        
-  17.3')   19767    HIS~F  3-)                                 -    1      la 559  fl-N   -          1.10    1.2       AO5     -      55889                                       579      59
I7.  ron.o,r.to             1 ,ea'   I.tit,   '02'
Pauonr and  0013)00 Stork                            -        .6~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~~~~~~6 19). 37  .86  - .78  3.36   .27      .21   1.72  .21                .14      1.68      .14             .12    1.14   .12    -.211    1.32                 .11.
V. Sp-   P.~~~u-                                                     .3',    4.98       .3..           .31     4.08   .31-                                               -       ----                                                          
VI.  qokia   oeriaooG7    .109    :.986                                                                    J.?),   J, 39    .24      7.37    .62    L.50~   .21    7.50  .62          -       -        -     -
010.  T-h'.a   Aoooae                                                             .'      -70    13J.2       1.--     190     .        7.1o   _6 .0_12.2  __0),                        03    .17       2.07    .05i    .01        .09    1.09   .09        .03       06       73f      .06
7211.  To-tal                                                                    94.001   25.93   j1 ..7     5)        "  '     05       )         9. 190.83   5.i8   8.0.85    19.15   7.327  006.99   8.82   27.02   6.37   96.16  6.01.   14.10    2.87   18.81                   4.06
0.  Pt,goca.  '88 )t  ~~~~~~) .,0  .  VI) 4)'9,) ~~~~4.1545                         .2       7                       .0)7    .096      -      R.7   .0)     1.201     -        1.00    .06      1.00     -      i.o      .06    .Bo         -       .80        .07
...- 2 . yoo    o    'i.0  p. y-ao   fr,7   ono                  .46     3.7)1  _0'~2.0      ,8       .71                     .70    .0        .54   '.7).  .01     iRa    1.58        1h.76  1.22      7.48    137   19.04  1.58   2.30        .78   12.66    ..992
2.  17090 NI)AL                                                             109.66   27.7'   131.5)   30656   2.n7.2  2.12    L7.33  4.03  71.89    5.77  90.69 7.56    21.95   8.4(2    152.75 19.27   23.50    5.74  n6.5o   9.70  17.70                      3.65   61.30       5.12
S17r1272






ANNEX 14
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILW4AY PROJECT
Main Items of the 1973-1977 Investment Plan
1.        Way and Works (30% of total expenditure).  Investment in this
category contains the following items:
1.1       Track renovation material:  As a result of past inadequate track
maintenance and material replacement, there is a large backlog. This item
contains track material replacements such as sleepers (timber and metallic),
rails mainly for replacement of wornout rail in low radius curvatures),
fastenings and turnout components. This material is essential to upgrade
the track from the present condition to a level adequate for the traffic to
be carried and to enable implementation of periodic maintenance schemes.
1.2       Ballasting works:  Application of crushed stone ballast to weak
sections of main lines is one of the requirements of the track rehabilitation
plan. At present, the track is most often laid directly on the subgrade and
is ballasted only with earth or clayed sand. During the plan period, stone
ballasting of the high traffic La Paz-Oruro line (225 km) is projected.
This item also includes stone crushing equipment to help ENFE modernize its
quarries.
1.3       Tools and equipment:  comprises gang trollies, measuring devices
and tools to t.arry out the track rehabilitation plan.
1.4       Structure reinforcement:  many speed limits are imposed on trains
because of bridges in poor condition or of inadequate strength. This item
includes: (a) on the Western System, the replacement of 29 old timber bridges
on the Oruro-Ollague section (towards Antofagasta) with steel structures;
and (b) on the Eastern System, the consolidation of the Rio Grande's river
bed, flooding of which at present causes heavy damage to track structures in
the vicinity of Puerto Pailas station.
1.5       Improvement of Oruro-Cochabamba line (205 km):  this line, which
crosses the Eastern Cordillera, has a very difficult layout with exposures
to mud, soil and rock slides during the wet season (December to March).
Moreover, for about 60 km, the line follows rivers at a level only slightly
higher than the river bed, resulting in flooding and washaways of the track.
Accidents are frequent, causing considerable delays of trains and often
interrupting train service completely for long periods. This item is in-
tended to provide a minimum investment for improving protection against
such flooding and soil slides. It includes (a) additions to the existing
fleet of bull-dozers and other earthmoving equipment for clearance of the



ANNEX 14
Page 2
line in wet seasons and for track reinforcing work in dry seasons; (b) exten-
sion of existing stone revetments and stone wallings to protect the railway
line from river erosion and soil slides from transverse gullies; and (c) the
study, detailing and construction of realignment works required for safety
reasons or necessitated by raised river bed levels or major soil slide
difficulties.
1.6       Station facilities:  includes the installation of small sidings at
about 50 major stations and the improvement of handling and weighing facil-
ities.
1.7       Buildings, equipment:  includes equipment intended for a vocational
training center, to be created in Cochabamba in existing facilities, and
miscellaneous office equipment and vehicles.
1.8       Telecommunications:  Signalling equipment, although old, is ade-
quate for the level of traffic to be handled, but existing telecommunica-
tions are highly inadequate to exercise an effective control of train opera-
tions due to the poor condition of present control circuits. This item is
intended to provide adequate telecommunications and traffic control equip-
ment to enable the setting up of three train control offices (Oruro, Viacha
and Uyuni) and to prepare the installation of the new car allocation system.
2.        Motive Power (15% of total expenditures)
2.1       It includes the provision of:        - 15 main line diesel locomotives
- 13 diesel rail tractors, and
- 3 diesel rail car sets (2 units
per set).
2.2       To complete the elimination of steam traction by 1977 and to deal
with the traffic forecast, 15 main line diesel locomotives will be needed
(Attachment A). Delivery of these units, projected in 1975/76, is dependent,
however, on ENFE having first established diesel locomotive maintenance on
a satisfactory basis, with supply of spares, workshop facilities and trained
staff.
2.3       Thirteen diesel rail tractors, to be procured in 1974, are required
to replace present steam and diesel locomotives for light shunting operations
in stations, private sidings, yards, etc. These tractors will be cheaper to
operate than the existing shunting engines.
2.4       Three diesel rail car sets to be delivered, one in 1973 and two in
1974, are to take care of the projected passenger traffic increase between
main urban centers.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
3.        Rolling Stock (31X of total expenditure)
3.1       It includes the provision of:  -   850 freight cars (650 box cars,
100 flat cars and 100
gondola cars)
-    25 passenger coaches
-    20 cabooses.
3.2       Out of the present fleet of 1,843 freight cars, only about 1,020
are in reasonable condition and worth undergoing a rehabilitation program;
of these, only some 600 are less than 30 years old. Modernization of the
freight car fleet is essential to enable ENFE to offer satisfactory service
to the customers, to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by
dieselization and to reduce operating costs. Many cars are not suited to
modern operation (lack of brake equipment) and cause heavy maintenance
expenses; they will be scrapped over the next five years. Based on 1977
forecast traffic, the future number of cars should be abo-ut 1,870 and,
taking into account the rehabilitation program, this results in the procure-
ment of 850 new cars over the plan period (Attachment B). These are to be
mostly box cars (650) for general cargo, flat cars (100) for logs and tubes,
and gondolas (100) for minerals and building material.
3.3       Except for three recently acquired metallic coaches, all passenger
vehicles are over 50 years old and in very poor condition. Out of the present
fleet of 121 cars, only 48 are in reasonable condition and worth undergoing
rehabilitation; the other cars do not provide satisfactory service and cause
heavy maintenance expenses. They will be scrapped over the next five years
and will be replaced by 25 new coaches, to be procured in 1975.
4.        Locomotive and car maintenance (3% of total expenditure)
This item includes: (a) the procurement of components for rehabil-
itation of 7 diesel locomotives and 6 rail cars (now out of service),
together with the improvement of existing suitable 48 passenger and 1,020
freight cars; and (b) the creation of a basic stock of spare parts, almost
totally lacking at present, for diesel locomotives, rail cars, passenger
and freight cars. These spares, to be procured in 1973, are required
urgently to start an organized maintenance program.
5.        Workshop modernization (3% of total expenditure)
This item comprises the modernization of facilities and the pro-
curement of essential machine tools for the maintenance of modern equipment,
on the basis of having three main workshops only: Viacha for diesel locomo-
tives and rail cars, Uyuni and Robore for passenger and freight cars.



AANNEX 14
Page 4
6.        Technical assistance (3% of total expenditure)
ENFE's rehabilitation program requires adequate technical support
to assist ENFE in implementing the various action programs which have been
prepared. Long-term technical assistance is needed mostly to train staff at
management and at execution level in order to assist in carrying out the
various rehabilitation programs and to make good use of modern equipment.
October 1972



ANNEX 14
Attachment A
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Main Line Locomotive Requirements for 1977 Traffic
I. Basic assumptions
Western       Eastern
System       System      Total
(i) Traffic in million units
Freight                  ton-km    339            126         465
Passenger  a) by train: pass-km   133              53         186
b) by rail-
car     : pass-km   108             26         134
Total    pass-km   241             79         320
(ii) Locomotive performance
km/yr/ serviceable locomotive   95,000         110,000
This performance, valid for freight and passenger service, is based
on the improved results obtained in the second part of 1971, after implement-
ing the consultants' recommendations for reorganization of operations:
introduction of transportation plans and rationalization of locomotive
utilization, as shown below:
Western System          Eastern System
1970  June 1971        1970  June 1971
a) Steam
Number of locomotives in service    32        12             22       10
km/yr/serviceable locomotive          36,000 54,000          28,000  44,000
b) Main line diesels
Number in service                     21      18              4        3
km/yr/serviceable engine              64,000 122,000         71,000 138,000
c) Basic assumption (see above)                   95,000                 110,000
taking into account the effect on overall performance of diesel locomotives
when phasing out steam traction.



ANNEX 14
Attachment A
Page 2
II. Train requirements
(i) Freight traffic:
- Western System: 339 million net ton-km amount to 734 million
GTKH (gross ton-km hauled). Taking 435 gross tons as an average
load of freight trains (the upper limit of single headed trains
is 1,000 GT on the Altiplano and 260 GT on all other lines)
would require 1,700,000 train-km.
- Eastern System:  126 million net ton-km amount to 322 GTKH.
Taking 500 GT as an average load of freight trains (upper
limit of single headed train) would require 650,000 train-km.
(ii)  Passenger traffic:
Western System: 133 million pass-km would require 560,000
train-km (based on 1969 statistics).
Eastern System: 53 million pass-km would require 80,000 train-km
(based on 1969 statistics).
III. Number of main line locomotives required
Western System:  Revenue train-km:  1,700,000  +  560,000  = 2,260,000
Number of serviceable locomotives required : 24
Eastern System:  Revenue train-km:    650,000  +   80,000  =   730,000
Number of serviceable locomotives required : 7
Number of serviceable locomotives needed for revenue service: 24+7 = 31
Number of locomotives needed for departmental use (156,000 train-km/yr): 2
Total number of locomotives needed, allowing for 85% availability:
Western System:    29
Eastern System:      9
Total            38
IV.  Verification of performance in GTKH/yr/main line diesel locomotive
1969        1977
Traffic performed (or to be performed)
by diesel traction                    million GTKH      608        1,270
Locomotives in service                                     18           33
Performance by locomotives in service million GIKH         33.8         38.5
Locomotives in fleet                                       25           38
Performance by locomotives in fleet   million GTKH         24.3         33.5



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Calculation of Freight Car Requirements
Unit         1973           197            1975           1976            1977
1.  Projected revenue traffic for both
systems (Western and Eastern)              million ton-km    383             399           4419           442             4651
2. Carrying capacity of present freight
car fleet
a) Evolution of present fleet                    cars        1,700         1,620          1,440          1,210           1,020
b) Improvement of availability due                              70             75             80            85              87
to rehabilitatioa
c) Number of serviceable cars                    cars        1,300         1,300          1,200          1,050             900
d) Traffic carried by above cars            million ton-Iam   273             273           264            242             225
3. Remaining revenue traffic to be carried    million ton-km    11o               126            155            200             240
4. Carrying capacity of new cars
a) Expected delivery of new cars                 cars           0             200           400            650             850
b) Availability                                                              100            100             94               94
c) Number of serviceable new cars                cars           0             200           400            610             800
d) Traffic carried by new cars 2/           million ton-km      0              60           120            183              240
5. Remaining revenue traffic to be carried
by rented cars                             million ton-km    98               66             35            17               0
Number of rented cars needed 4/               cars         440             265           140             70              0
6. Scrapping program
a)  Optimal scrapping program                    cars         143             223           403            633            c843
(1971 fleet: 1,843 cars)
b) Number of cars for departmental
use (to be taken out of the
scrapping program)                           cars          90             90             90             75              60
c)  Ballasting cars for departmental
use (to be taken out of the
scrapping program)                          cars         45              45             45             45              45
d)  Actual scrapping program                     cars           8              88           268            513             718
g of       number and type of      cars available after         new cars
1/ Breakdown of 1977 traffic    million ton-km  traffic    cars required                rehabilitation              needed
- general cargo                   330          71       boxc-ars:  1,330 63                                     650
- timber, tubings, vehicles        63          13.5     flat cars:   250                  140                   110
- ores                             47          10       gondolas:    190                   95                    95
- petroleiLr products  Toa                       5.     tank cars:   103                  105                    -
Total      h65         100                   1,873               1,020
2/ (assumption: 1973/74: 210,000 ton-km.'--v. car                      3/ (assumption: 300,000 ton-km per new car)
1974   : 220,000  "
1975   : 230,000  X
1976   : 250,000  "                                   4t    F )  4/ (assumption: 250,000 ton-km per rented car)
October 1972                                                                                                                       w
1w






ANNEX 15
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Year 1973/1974                                       Cumulative Disbursements
US$ 000
Sept. 30, 1973                                                   630
Dec. 31, 1973                                                  1,080
Mar. 31, 1974                                                  2,060
June 30, 1974                                                  4,260
Year 1974/1975
Sept. 30, 1974                                                 6,550
Dec. 31, 1974                                                  7,240
Mar. 31, 1975                                                  7,450
June 30, 1975                                                  8,000
Assumptions:
1.   Credit signed around December 1972, effective in March 1973.
2.   All orders be placed in April/May 1973, with a down payment of
10% at placement of orders.
3.   Delivery of diesel rail cars and freight cars in 1974 (calendar year).
4.   Procurement of spares, components and equipment to modernize shops
commencing in late 1973 and continuing in 1974 (calendar years).
5.   Contribution toward local costs of a total amount of US$760,000 dis-
bursed at the rate of US$560,000 in 1973 (calendar year) and
US$200,000 in 1974 (calendar year).
October 1972



901001A
API792M20 e. 6 8811981 P2JEOgC
E-oeee0 Cest.' With .S Without ths I-stt Pi-
Witho.t th.eve tIweit Plne                                    1975       1976 421k  119797 17                  -       1980      9S9 V8222I                                      VcS        1a          9E7        V$         19~          90        11
Personnel                             120.0      118.1      016.3       114.5       112.7      101.0      115.1       107.3      115.5       1016       1OL8        10.0       98 .1      96.3        94.5       92.8        909         90.t       9P.4        90.4
batenifle                             20.7        20.7       20.3       19.4        18.6       18.0        17.4       16.7        16.1       15.5        15.1       14.7       140.5       14.5        14.5       1b.5       1.5         114.5      14 5        14 5
18.,       16.9       15.4        13.1       10.8         9.1        7.4        5.8         4.i        3.2         2.9        2.6         2.6        2.6         2.6        2.7         2.7        2.7         2.7        2.8
Coetr-et.                               6.5        6           .5         6.5        6.5         6.5                    6.5        6.5        6.5         6.5        6.5         6.5        6.5         6.5        6.5         6.5        6.5         6.5         6.5
eight One Rentals                     4.6         5.0        5.1         5.2        5.3         5.4.       5.5         5.6        5.7        5.9         6.c        6.1         6.2        6.3         6.4        6.5         6.6        6.7         6.8        6.9
Loo of Passengers                       -          .5         1.1        1.8         2.5        2.9         3.3        3.6        4.C         4.3        466         1.9        5.1         5.1        5.1         5.1        5.1         5.1        5.1         5.1
Dieolno of Pna-sngers                  1.1         2.4        5.2        8.4       101.1       12.7        14.2       15.7       17.1        18.5       19.8        21.1       21.8        21.8       21.8        21.8       21.8        21.8       21.8        21.8
Diverion Of Feight                      -           4.3       16.6       33.9        51.8       58.0        64.5       70.9       77.3        83.6       90.0        94.9       94.1        93.2       92.3        91.5       98.6        89.8       88.9        88.o
loss of F7z8ght                         -           0.8        3.1        6.5        10.4       ii.6        12.9       14.0       15.5        16.7       18.D        19.0       18.8        18.7       18.5        18.3       18.1        18.2       17.8        17.6
Tot.:                                171.4        175.2      189.6      22o,3      229.7       235.2      940.8       246.3 S     51.8      257.8       264.7      269.8       267.7      265.0       262.2      259.7       256.8      255.5       3fi        253.6
With the Osreetoent Pi.n
P. r0onm                            .120.0       120.0      120.0       122.0      120.0       120o0       120n.      120.0      120.0       120,e      120o0      120,o       120.0      120.0       1:0.       1:0.                   1:       0             120.
-I ~          ~          ~          1                                             28.9       28.9        28.9       28.9       28.9        28.9       28.9        28.9        28.9       28.9       28.9        2B.s        278 9      2B.S9       28.s
74.1                                  18.5        17.5       15.1        II.0        8.,0        7.0         7.0        7.0        7.8         7.0        7.0         7.0        7.0         7.0        7.0         7.0        7.0        70            0         7.0
Contt ct.                               1.5         1.5        .5        1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5         i.5        1.5         1.5
height Ce rental.                       4.          3.0        1.5        0.7                    ---
)kt-rala                               1$9D       J32.  2     20.3       20.8        20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9        20.9       20.9        20.9
Ir".t_nt                              46.5        O3.0       108.0       97;5       49.6         -          -           -          -           -
TItel                                 2091       245.2      2BG.3        251.5     200.0       178.3      178.3       178.3      178.3       178.3      178.3      178.3       178.3      178.        4224.      lia.        12         12.23       12L3       17B.3
T.In oott npe.oes 8 tb
Octobhr 1972



ANNEX 17(a)
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAI PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets (West and East Lines)
as of December 31, 1965 to 1971
(in $b millions)
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970   1971
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                   599.9  604.3  606.2  619.7  762.4  764.2  542.5
Fixed Assets Not Capitalized      -    130.2  130.2  154.2        -       -       -
599.9  734.5  73364   773.9   772.4   764.2   542.5
Cash and Bark Balances            6.o     6.6   12.4    5.2       6.4    4.2      4.5
Sundry Debtors                  32.0   22.5   31.4   31.7   49.4   64.o   64.6
Stores           - Railway      29.6    34.9   33.1   38.0   54.6   51.7   38.8
- Pulperias     4.3     4.5    4.6      6.6    6.6   16.7    5.6
Suspense                         9.1   10.3   12.2    3.4         -       -     19.6
Cargos Diferidos                  -       -       -      13.4   13.3   18.8       5.2
TOTAL ASSETS              680.9  813.3   830.1  872.2  892.7  919.6  680.8
TLIABILITIES
Capital                        653.4  656.9  660.4  665.8  681.2  665.6  480.0
Long Term Debt                    -    128.3   125.6   154.4  141.0   114.6    79.5
Sundry Creditors - Commercial    11.7   16.o   27.3   19.1   21.2   38.4    40.3
It  11  - Social       6.3     8.0   11.9   15.9   20.l   29.6   32.1
Reserves         - Social         1.4      .1      -.6    3.5    7.8    6.2   10.5
"             - Depreciation   1.3    1.3    1.3       1.8    9.5   17.0   24.1
Suspense                         6.8     2.7    3.0       -      -       -       5.1
Abonos Diferidos                  -       -       -     11.7    11.6    48.2    9.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES         680.9  813.3  830.1   872.2  892.7  919.6  680.8
October 1972






ANNEX 17 (b)
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Notes on Balance Sheets
1.        Fixed Assets:  Book value, expressed as gross values with deprecia-
tion reserves shown separately, includes (a) net written down book value of
assets taken over from the previous owners of the railways and (b) an arbi-
trary, understated value for the Santa Cruz-Corumba line built by Brazil.
It does not include the value of the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba line, built by
Argentina. The cost of both of these lines is being repaid by Bolivia over
a long term; that of the Santa Cruz-Corumba line has been passed on to ENFE
as equity, and the outstanding debt does not appear in ENFE's accounts. The
depreciation reserve is also considerably understated, representing only the
amounts being provided against the diesel locomotives and rolling stock ac-
quired within the last two or three years. No inventory of fixed assets,
agreeing with the accounting records, exists, but ENFE is presently prepar-
ing one. The lower figures shown in 1971 result from a preliminary re-
assessment of fixed asset values carried out by ENFE, which will be further
revised in 1972.
2.        Fixed Assets Not Capitalized (in 1966, 1967 and 1968 Balance Sheets):
relates to the purchase of 10 ferrobuses from FERROSTAL, Germany, and 29
diesel locomotives, together with rolling stock and spares, from Mitsubishi,
Japan. Although the equipment was not obtained and put into service until
1968, ENFE accounted for the equipment on the one hand as assets and on the
other hand as debts in 1966, the year in which the contracts were finalized.
The value of these assets was not brought into the correct fixed assets ac-
counts until 1969, and depreciation on the equipment also began in this year.
3.        Sundry Debtors:  The 1971 balance includes $b 3.2 million debts
owing to the East line which date back to 1969 and the receipt of which can
be considered doubtful. Also included are: commercial debts $b 11 million,
mines $b 8 million, COMIBOL (Government operated mines) $b 3 million, state
enterprises $b 8 million, other railways for hire of cars and freight charges
$b 10 million.
4.        Stores:  (a)  Railways rose sharply from about $b 33 million in
1967 to over $b 50 million in 1969 and 1970 but fell to $b 39 million in 1971.
It includes work in progress, material in transit, major spares and maintenance
equipment for the Japanese locomotives, and many obsolete and slow moving items
which are to be examined for ultimate disposal; (b) Pulperias: shown separately
against this heading is the value of stores of foodstuffs held for staff
commissaries.



ANNEX 17 (b)
Page 2
5.        Cargos Diferidos:  These are various suspense accounts which were
not cleared at the time ENFE closed the 1971 accounts. Included is $b 4.8
million East line accounts for which many details are missing.
6.        Abonos Diferidos:  Many items outstanding at end of 1970 were
cleared in 1971.
7.        Long term Debt:  The 1971 balance consists mainly of the amount
owing to Mitsubishi ($b 77.0 million) and FERROSTAL ($b 1.7 million).
8.        Sundry Creditors - Social:  Includes $b 21.0 million owing to the
Caja Social de Ferroviarios for retirement benefits and $b 7.2 million owing
for foodstuffs for the Pulperias.
9.        Sundry Creditors - Commercial:  Includes $b 16.6 million owing
to Argentina and Chilean railways for freight car rental and freight charges
in these countries.
10.       Reserves - Social:  Includes amounts set aside by ENFE since 1965
for retirement benefits but not yet paid.
11.       General:  The various remaining suspense items and old outstanding
balances are being investigated by ENFE staff, who hope to clear the items
during the coming year.
October 1972



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Cash Flow - (1967-1971 Actual:  19   (Tentative); 1973-1977 (Projected)
($b million)
AZT!IALS - 1967-71                                               FORECASTS - 1973-1977
1967      1968       1969     1970      1971     1972          Ar73      174I               1975      1976     1977    T97377
FUNDS REQUIRED
For Investment:
Local Currency                                               7. 4       1.4        6.3      2.8       1.l       .5          22.0     21.9       43.9    22.0      23.5      17.5      106.9
Foreign Exchange                                              -          -          -        -         -       2.6          20.4     65.5       86.0   109.9       6. 0     4.         3.
Total Investment                                                      iT4      73-       -2 .      1 .I     3.!          V7        5777      129.9   131.9    9l l    $.3          4
Debt Service
Loan Interest                                                0.3        3.7       6.8       6.i       5.5      4.6           3.7      3.0        6.7      5.8     11.9      i6.6       41.0
Loan Repayment                                               3.0        8.?       8.7      21.0      15.1     19.6          16.3 164.9    ...2 '? L 11                                714.5
Total Debt Service                      3.                         3 1T.9    2           7.157  7           214.l        4R        17.9       37.9    20.3          3     31.0        T
Other
Additions to working capital                                  -                     -                                         -        1.0       1.0      2.0       3.0      4.0       10.0
Retirement Benefits                                          1.0                                                -            7.4     --87.4                        74        74        37.0
Total Funds Required                                      11.7       13.3      21.8      29.9     21.7      27.2          69.9    113.7    11U.6   16i.6    153.2    103.7          602.1
SOURZES OF RINDS
Operating Revenues                                         115.8      125.9      10t7.7    138.9    139 .1    150.9        166.0    172.5      338.5   181.0    190.0    198.5        908.0
Less: Cash Operating Costs                                1?3.3      137.14    238.7    1)1.1    262.6    168.5           168.1    167.7    3lt.8   163.3    159          155.9      814 5
Cash 3enerated from Operations (Deficit)                     T.T>)    7TiTM)       9.0   7'T~)   T(3-5)    17 6)           r 2.1)   1T           2.7    17.7      3.5    1426         -9-3n-
Less: Net Non-Operating Expenses                            0.7      (0-3)    (3.'4)       3.4       0.9      2.5           2.6       2.5       5.0      2.4      2.1       2.4       12.2
Net Internally Generated Funds Available(required)         (  82)    (21.)       T.T (67)   TSWL)    .GX)                  F4:)        23      r 23)   I.3        2
Government Equity Contribution                              16.7       17.8        8.8     20.4      34.7     28.0          46.o      43.2      89.2    36.4      32.1      19.7      177.4
UNDP Grant                                                                                                     3.1           7.9       1.9       9.8      2.3       1.3      0.9      134.3
Borrowings:
Proposed IDA Credit                                         -          -          -        -         -        -           20.6      66.3      86.9      9.1        -        -        96.0
Total Borrowi-gs                                            -                                                  -                                                                     2 917
Decrease in Working Capital                                _3.          6.7        0.6     18.1      11.4    16.-
Total So-tces of Funds                                    11.7       [3.3       21.8     29.9      21.7     27.2          6Q.9    11.3.7     193.6   161.6    9,53.2    103.7       5 .1       X
October ,372






APftU^AL    A RAUMr   CT
oaxtLx AoUnt 1966-lM                      ($b NlUllon)
MTLIMs                                           ESTLIE                l9i DTuS -at pi   eat
Fpaerng.                           16.0     16.5     18.0    17.9    19.8  20.3   3.2         3.2      6.1      7.2      7.1  7.3  19.2       19.7     2b.1      25.1     26.9   27.6
Parcel.                             2.9      3.1      3.0      2.6      2.7   2.5    .3       .8        .5      1.0      1.5  2.1   3.2        3.9      3.5       3.6     14.2    14.6
V.,lht                             75.9     82.0     81.5    88.2      86.3  82.4   5.0       7.2     13.7     25.0     16.8  22.1  80.9      89.2      95.2    113.2    103.1  104.5
M ellaea                            2.0      2.7      2.J      2.       3.1  1.4    .3                  .7      2.9      1.6  o.9   2.3        3.0      11        5
Total Opeati,                   WR_ 2,               5.9    f      =9lI X 7                        !        32.4    1w55 lI W  35i        fn"                 7Y  1         39.
Oimrsting Se_nea
r _in.oe orf  q                    22.3    20.14                                     3.9      4.2
kljnt.eve of lspipmt               15.7   1l.9                                       1.8      2.0
Nemdng Cet.                        29.5     27.6                                     2.4      2.9
Tneffc Cet                         114.0    ii.5                                     1.3      1.7
Si1a  & Teleconleation             1.9      1.7     U/A      1/A      I/A   N/A      .3       .3     N/A      N/A       N/A   U/A   N/A      */A       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A
Nlscellanc..                       15.4     16.3                                     1.2      1.5
In.. on SubAiiod Foods              3.3      3.3                                      .1      .2
medica1                             6.1      6.9                                      .7       .9
Sbeoob                               .8       -                                       .1       .2
Totel VOrkiS   pee             109.0   10-9.    U.9    110.0    11  2                                                W     N-2.0  35      Ti 5  12          3          1F.  -iE  g
Dqplaciation                         -        -                  B      7.    7.0    -         -        -        -        _      _     _        _        .         !5.8    7.5      7.0
Total Operating Expewnas                109 109 115.8               f                               11                  9. I35      sJ  120.8    I" 13.4    i30                189.0
Net Vrkizg Rawue (Laws)              (12.2)    (5.3)   (10.0)     3.5     (0.2) (21.5) (3.0)    (2.3)    (1.0)     7.4      (3.4) (2.1) (15..S   (7.6)   (11.0)    10.9      (3.6)  (23.6)
Net Operating PRue (Lws)             (12.2)    (5.3)   (10-5)    (4.2)    (7.7) (28.5) (3.0)    (2-3)    (1.0)     7.4      (3.4) (2.1) (15.2) t  (7.6)   (11.5)     3.2    (11.1)  (30.6)
Non Operating Heve*s (Loss) - Wet       -      (o.8)      .4      3.1    (3.7)  0.8    .1        .1        -        .3       .2  (1.6)   .1      (0.7)       .4      3.4     (3.4)   (0.8)
Net }eveme (Los) Before Interest     (12.2)    (6.1)   (10.1)    (1-1)   (11.4) (27.7) (2.9)    (2.2)    (1.0)     7.7      (3.2) (3.7) (15.1)    (8.3)   (11.1)     6.6    (14.5)  (31.4)
ILtere t ClIrgea                                 .3      3.7      6.8      6.1   5.5                                                      -        .3      3.7       6.8      6.1     5.5
Not Los (Surplus)                     12.2      6.4     13.8      7.9     17.4 (33.2)  2.9       2.2      1.0     (7.7)     3.2  (3.7) 15.1       8.6    (14.8)       .2     20.6   (36.9)
Workig Ratio                         112      105      110       97      100   120   134       120      105       80       113    1o6  114       107      109       93      103       117
July 1972



AnneI 20 (a)
BMIVTA
APPRAISAL OF A RAULA PROJUT
Income Projections 1973-1977 (West and lBt Lines)
(With Actuals 1968-1971 and Tentative Figures 1972 for Comparison)
(in $b millons)
1968    1969    1970    1971             1973    1974            1 1976    1977
Operatirig Revenue.
Passengers                            24.1    25.1    26.9    27.7    31.2    31.0    32.0    33.0    34.0    35.0
Freight                              95.2  113.2   103.1  104.5   111.9   127.5   133.0  110.0  148.0  155.0
1Miscellaneous                        6.6      9.4     8.9     6.9      7.      7.5     7.5     8.0     8.0      8.5
Total Operating Revenues            125.9  14?.7   138.9  139.1   150.9  166.0   1Z           181.0  190.0  196.5
Operating Costs
Labor                                89.2    99.7   101.3   114.5   120.0  120.0   120.0  120.0   120.0  120.0
Fuel and Lubricants                  18.0   14.5    15.0    19.5    '9.5    18.5    17.5    15.0    11.0         8.0
materials                            14.7    13.6   15.8   14.6    15.5    18.0   20.2    20.3    20.8    20.9
Contractors                            2.0     1.5     2.1     2.6      2.5     1.5     1.5     1.5   lE5        1.5
Freight Car Rental (Net)              5.3      4.9     5.0     5.8      5.5     4.6     3.0     1.5    0.7        -
Miscellaneous                          7.7     4.5     3.3     5.8    . 55      ,,      5.      5.0      55      5.5
Total Workicng Costs                136.9  138.7  142.5   162.6   1'5.5   168.    16'.7  163.3  159.5   155.9
Depreciation                          0.5      5.8     7.5     7.0    2:,.0    2L.0   25.o    25.5    26.0      26.5
Total Operating Costs               137.4   144.5  1.50.0  169.6   1925          l92.1 lo.7   188    l B85.5  if
Not Operating Revenue (Loss)           (11.5)    3.2   (1.l)  (30.9)  ''.6'  (?6.l!  (202)  ( 7.B)    45    '6.i
Non-operating Receipts                  4.2      7.)A    5.2     3.9      1..     'I '4             4     14       1
Non-oppratinf Expenses                   3.9     4.0     A.6     4.8      3.9     3.9     3.9     3.8     3.8      3.8
Net Revenue (Loss) before interest    (11.2)    6.6   (14. 5)  (31. 4 1   jI4.7)  (28.6)  (22.7)  (10.21   2.1    .3.7
Tlan Interest                            3.6     6.8     6.]     5.5      '       3.7     3.0     5.8    11. 9    16.6
Net Revenue                            (1n.8)  ( 0.2)  (20.6)  (36.9)  (48.7'  (32.3)  (25.7) (16.0)  ( 9A)  ( 2.9)
Ratios:
Working ratio %                      109      93     1n3     117      24-2    10]      97      9^       84      79
Operating ratio %                         -       -           -       128     11h     112     104,     98       92
Times interest earned                         _       _       _      _        -       _       -           .2      .8
Debt Service Cnverage                                         -      _                   .]      .8    El.       1.3
1/ Re-Ised estimate based on actuial figues for first six me-'s.
October 1972



ANNEX 20 (b)
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Operating Accounts 1972-1976 - Notes and Assumptions
1)   Traffic
Assumed that the fall in 1970 and 1971 was only temporary, mainly
due to the unsettled political situation and that traffic will rise
as follows:
Freight: West line 4.5% per annum; East line 6.5% per annum.
Passengers: West line 2.5%; East line 5% per annum (as discussed in
Annexes 8 and 10).
2)   Tariffs:  Assumed that ENFE's new freight tariff structure, introduced
in July 1972, will raise average revenue per ton-km by about 10%, and that
the new passenger fare structure, to be introduced in mid-1973, will raise
average revenue per pass-km by about 10%.
3)   Average Revenue per Unit Kilometer:  Past performance is:
Ton/km    Pass/km
1966                                 .300      .097
1969                                 .303      .098
1970                                 .324      .100
1971                                 .301      .103
Average                   .302       .099
Add:  10% rate increase, 1972        .030
Add:  10% fare increase, 1973          -        .010
For forecasting used                 .332       .109
Assumed unit revenues will then remain at this level on a constant
price basis.
4)   Labor Costs:  Total annual costs should remain at substantially the
1971 level. Any savings arising due to reduction in numbers,
resulting from retirement of over-age staff, will be passed as selective
improvements to workers' salaries.



ANNEX 20 (b)
Page 2
5)   Fuel, Materials and Other Working Costs:  These costs will remain
reasonably level until dieselization is completed; then fuel and
locomotive repair costs should decline.
6)   Inflationary Effects:  As revenues and costs are expressed in constant
prices, it is assumed that any inflationary rises in costs, particularly
labor, will be met promptly by tariff increases. Staff retirements
will be made progressively as in the agreed plan of action and Govern-
ment will provide finance to cover the retirement benefits.
7)   Action Plan:  The Action Plan will be carried out according to schedule
and, in conjunction with this, the technical assistance will also be
continued.
8)   Operations on New Lines:  No allowance has been made for possible
deficits arising from any operations on the Santa Cruz-Santa Rosa
line (or on any extensions), on the assumption that ENFE will be
isolated from such deficits, including debt service, and from the
capital costs of this line.
9)   Rented Freight Cars:  Until ENFE's stock of serviceable freight cars
has been brought up to the required level, it is assumed that ENFE
will be able to continue to rent cars as required from Argentina,
Brazil and Chile, at approximately the current level of rentals.
10) Depreciation: Annual forecasts are based on fixed asset replacement
costs as assessed by the consultants, SOFRERAIL, and will be adjusted
in the light of the asset identification and valuation study now being
undertaken by ENFE.
October 1972



ANNEX 21
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Summary Balance Sheets
($b millions)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
(Recast) -(Forecasts)-----------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets - Gross                1,700   1,700   1,700   1,710   1,740   1,790   1,810
Less: Accumulated depreciation      880     904      893     843     768      728     714
Net Fixed Assets                820     796     807      867     972   1,062   1,096
Current Assets                        114     108      110     113     118      125     130
Total Assets                    934     904     917      980   1,090   1,187   1,226
LIABILITIES
Capital                               771     750      757     766      779     788     i'97
Long-term Debt                         80      60       65     116     208      292     221
Current Liabilities                    72      82       83      86      89       93      94
Reserves                               11       12      12      12       14      14      14
Total Liabilities               934     904     917      980   1,090   1,187   1,226
Current Ratio                           1.6     1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3     1.3     1.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                     11/89    7/93    8/92   14/66   21/79   27/73   29/71
October 1972






7 2                                        68 '                                                                   B O  L  I V  I A
RAILWAY  SYSTEM
/1,f                  RAILWAYS              ENFE
,~~~~~  i                 - s----~~~~~~~~~~Ii       EF
.........d.. Under Construction
1    J.c.  (. (Completed)
____________  Under consideration for closing
, \ - + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other.
HIGHWAYS
\Cobblc                                                              _____       _ (Paved  roOds
\       .      Others
\ --           Internotional Boundary
12                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~River           12'
-I2' 4                                                                             \,          C \    < ,,- po)500  100  200
Kilometers
/ _             /                               Tr-ndtd
J.#... i   S     "       ~          OScnro Ano
oe6'  zv  PunctR-kncMotild      O *                      Mamore
6eqtPi ap~~~~~LCAp PAZ                                                     %                     <OC.n..p-.n 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
At.iwiica ~ ~       ~        L lop           6n.                                                                                  t
Tact .rquw     XGrq:   [ Ga                                   <      bb;.  S(
~~~;'>~~ ~              Rap  "                              vII serrano    Cabr a_aa. 
'cC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S'
ak~~~~~~~~Sc M\lto                      p)\t:Vl S Pore oseei P" /
20'                   q                                                   S.
\    ~       ~ ~ ~         ~                               Cav RiBMlo _     t7berrb
dt tccci  '        /\'U    Villa Mcntes |
jt r-                                                                                                                      $ A * 't  /
t  uim                                     T.,Aiao                             7
T-pillonsJ                                                                                                          
Q.        Ani o a                                * A      R    Gfe              T    I   N      A
'    /      )                 *                          i~~~~~~~                                                 ~~erico  _______
72'                                         650                 ro sOVEOS AIR.SI,        64'                                          6 t_ .                   _
MARCH 1972                                                                                                                                               IBRD-3716R



