12 -Iz
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 346 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 1, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 346 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 1, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 1, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Einpresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
(hereinafter called ENFE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ENFE the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and ENFE,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1 .01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of' the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and
ENFE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Suasidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ENFE pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Basic Law" means Supreme Decrees No. 06909 dated October 10,
1964, and No. 09329 dated July 23, 1970 (referred to also as Decree No. 396
of the Revolutionary Government), both of the Borrower, establishing and
organizing ENFE;
(d)   "Plan Quinquenal" means the 1973-1977 program of ENFE, approved
by Resolution No. 35 dated October 26, 1972 of the Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo of the Borrower, to modernize and rehabilitate ENFE, as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Borrower and
the Association;
(e)   "Railways" means the railways entrusted to ENFE by the Borrower
for operation by ENFE and includes all railway property, equipment and materials
thereof;
(f)   "Eastern System" means the Railways that connect Corumbi - Santa
Cruz - Yacuiba;
(g)   "Western System" means the Railways connecting La Paz - Charana
- Oruro - Cochabamba - Aiquile - Rio Mulato - Sucre - Tarabuco - Uyuni - Olligue
- Villaz6n;
(h)   "$b" means pesos bolivianos in the currency of the Borrower; and
(i)   "Action Program" means the time-phased programs of action of ENFE
adopted by Resolution No. 35 dated October 26, 1972 of ENFE's board of
directors, summarized in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such programs of action
shall be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Association and ENFE.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1983 and ending July 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ENlFE to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan


﻿6
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
and the prompt authorization of adequate tariff increases from time to time to
enable ENFE to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ENFE under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ENFE
under terms and conditions including, inter alia, a 25-year term including 5 years
of grace, and 7.25% rate of interest on outstanding amounts, which shall have
been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause ENFE to carry out the Plan Quinquenal and the Action Program
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall promptly provide the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)   periodically review and cause the review of the Plan Quinquenal and
the Action Program;
(c)   not make or cause to be made any changes in the Plan Quinquenal
or the Action Program without the agreement of the Association; and
(d)   whenever ENFE's cost level shall rise substantially, take all steps
necessary to allow ENFE to promptly increase its tariffs by an amount sufficient
to offset said increase in costs.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall agree with the Association, sufficiently in
advance of each of ENFE's fiscal years, on the proposed annual budget for both
operations and investments of ENFE and on any revision thereof.


﻿7
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall provide monthly to ENFE, during the first fortnight of each month, funds
in such amount as shall be required to cover ENFE's estimated expenditures not
covered by ENFE's estimated operating revenues for the following month, in
accordance with ENFE's annual budget for operations and investment, provided
that, should there be any difference between the estimated and actual deficits,
said difference shall be taken into account in determining the amount of subsequent
payments to ENFE under this provision.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   cause the finances of the Santa Cruz - Mamor6 railway line and any
extension thereof to be separated from those of ENFE until such time as the
revenues arising from operations on said line are sufficient to cover operating
expenses and debt service attributable to said line;
(b)   reimburse ENFE for any losses derived from the operations of such
line, once ENFE shall be entrusted with the operations and finances thereof;
(c)   cause investments for the interconnection of the Eastern and Western
Systems to be made only if justified by economic analysis satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association;
(d)   cause investments for the extension of the Santa Cruz - Mamor6 line
to Trinidad to be made only after the Borrower shall have carried out economic
studies thereon and afforded the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views; and
(e)   cause the closure, by June 30, 1973, of the Sucre - Tarabuco line.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the report and
conclusions of the economic study of the Oruro - Cochabamba highway presently
being carried out, and consult with the Association sufficiently in advance of the
carrying out of any investment therefor.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out a study of the highway between Cochabamba and Aiquile and cause
the closure of the Cochabamba - Aiquile railway line if said study shows that
the road extension is a more economic transportation alternative, and, if said study
shows that the railway line is a more economic alternative, the Borrower shall
grant ENFE, periodically and in advance, subsidies in such amount as shall be
required to cover ENFE's loss on that line.


﻿8
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall consult with the Association, promptly
after the submission by ENFE to the Association of the revised salary structure
referred to in Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement, on said revised salary
structure, and shall cause ENFE to implement a new salary scale for the staff
therein indicated promptly after such consultation and on the basis thereof.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause ENFE to carry out the study referred
to in Section 4.03 (a) of the Project Agreement and shall consult with the
Association on the conclusions thereof.
Section 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, and shall cause all its agencies to, settle by December 31, 1973 all outstanding
debts to ENFE, and thereafter shall settle and cause its agencies to settle such
debts promptly after they become due.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ENFE of its obligations under the Project and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ENFE and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿9
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ENFE and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by ENFE of its obligations under the Project
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes ar-,J Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from
any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed tinder the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿10
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, a substantial change in the Basic
Law shall have been made without the agreement of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of'
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ENFE have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ENFE, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ENFE, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ENFE in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ENFE,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ENFE in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date March    1, 1973   is hereby  specified  for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿11
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03,
4.04 and 4.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03
of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFINANZAS
La Paz
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDE VAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s / E. Valencia IbAnez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President,
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Material and equip-          2,500,000          100% of foreign
ment for permanent                              expenditures or
way and for civil                               70% of total ex-
works                                           penditures
(a)  imported
- -(b)             locally produced
II.  Motive power                 1,200,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Rolling stock               2,400,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
IV.  Locomotive and Car             800,000          100% of foreign
Maintenance                                     expenditures
V.   Workshops                      500,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
VI.  Unallocated                    600,000
TOTAL        8,000,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   -f the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿15
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the first two years, 1973-1974, of the Plan Quinquenal
which, together with the Action Program and technical assistance, is designed to
carry out the physical rehabilitation of the Railways and to improve the
management, operations and finances of ENFE.
The part of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
is the acquisition of rolling stock, railway track, spare parts and other railway
equipment, tools and materials, with the prime objective of improving the utilization
of the carrying capacity of the Railways.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Action Program (1973-1977)
ENFE's Action Program includes the following:
1.   To extend the track rehabilitation scheme to cover the whole of the railway
system by mid-1974.
2.    To rehabilitate and have in running condition existing main line diesel
locomotives, shunting diesel locomotives and diesel rail cars in accordance with
the table given below:
Number of Locomotives or Rail Cars.
to be in running
in fleet by    a      condition* by
end         end      end     end     end
1972        1972     1973    1974    1975
Diesel Locomotives:
(a)   main-line              25          18       22      24      25
(b)   shunting diesel         4           4        4       4       4
Diesel Rail Cars:
(a)   ferrobuses             10           8        9      10      10
(b)   automotors             2            0        2       2       2
*    In running condition means locomotives and rail cars available for service.
It includes units undergoing scheduled repair work (but excludes, for instance,
units unavailable due to such causes as major accidents and extensive delays
in obtaining spares).


﻿18
3.    To rehabilitate existing rolling stock in accordance with the table given below:
1972       1973       1974        1975       1976
Passenger cars      3         22          23          -           -
Freight cars       60         140       300         300        220
4.    (a)  By December 1975, to concentrate workshops and specialize repair
work as follows:
VIACHA workshop:            repair of diesel motive power,
ferrobuses and automotores for
both systems (Western and Eastern);
UYUNI workshop:             repair of passenger and freight
cars for the Western System;
ROBORE workshop:            repair of passenger and freight
cars for the Eastern System;
(b)   by December 1976, to close Cochabamba, Sucre and Potosf workshops,
and to convert Oruro, Tupiza and Santa Cruz workshops into running
sheds;
(c)   to complete the modernization and reorganization of the diesel motive
power workshop at Viacha and the car workshop at Robor6 by
mid-1974 and the car workshop at Uyuni by December 1974.
5.   (a)   By April 1973 to complete the ordering of spares and components
required for the project (1973-1974);
(b)   by December 1973, to complete the listing of components required
for the rest of the plan period;
(c)   by December 1973, to set up an organized stores and supply system
and a centralized supply office.
6.    (a)  By March 1973, to make effective the new car allocation system;
(b)   by mid-1973, to make effective a train control sub-office at Uyuni.


﻿19
7.    (a)  By March 1973, to prepare a new tariff for passenger traffic and to
introduce it by mid-1973;
(b)   to have the commercial department fully operational in March 1973.
8.         To complete the reorganization of the Superintendency of personnel
and welfare by March 1973.
9.   To achieve operating targets as follows:
1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
Working Ratio %          101         97         90         89         79
Operating Ratio %        116        112        104         98         92
and provide annually depreciation of not less than $24,000,000.
For purposes of this paragraph "working ratio" means working expenses (i.e.,
operating expenses before depreciation and interest) divided by operating revenues,
and "operating ratio" means operating expenses (including depreciation but
excluding interest) divided by operating revenues.
10.  To enable staff entitled to retire by virtue of age or infirmity to do so,
and to redeploy staff as necessary, so as to reach a target of about 5,500 by
1977.


