CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 346 BO
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES
DATED DECEMBER 1, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 346 BO
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES
DATED DECEMBER 1, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,         dated      December       1,      1972,    between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES (hereinafter called
ENFE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition, inter alia, that ENFE agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ENFE, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENFE shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:


﻿4
(a)   ENFE shall procure the goods and services (other than services of
consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)   ENFE shall acquire such goods free and clear of all encumbrances.
Section 2.03. (a) ENFE undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ENFE
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to ENFE by the Borrower shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.04. (a) ENFE shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ENFE: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon -the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. ENFE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENFE
Section 3.01. ENFE shall at all times carry on its operations, manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, and plan the future expansion of the railway
services, all in accordance with sound business, financial, engineering and railway
practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent management, and
with the assistance of adequate, qualified and experienced staff.
Section 3.02. ENFE shall at all times operate and maintain the Railways
and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and railway practices.
Section 3.03. ENFE shall at all times maintain its right to carry on its
operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 3.04. ENFE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.05. ENFE shall: (a) carry out the Plan Quinquenal and the Action
Program with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices;
(b)   periodically review the Plan Quinquenal;
(c)   not make any changes in the Plan Quinquenal without the agreement
of the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)   appoint a qualified senior officer with suitable rank, powers and
authority to be solely responsible for the carrying out of the Plan Quinquenal.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall:
(a)   carry out any investment for interconnecting the Eastern and Western
Systems only if such investments are justified by economic analysis satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association;


﻿6
(b)   carry out investments for extending the Santa Cruz-Mamord line to
Trinidad only after the Borrower shall have carried out economic studies thereon
and afforded the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views;
(c)   by June 30, 1973, close the Sucre-Tarabuco line; and
(d)   close the Cochabamba-Aiquile line if the economic study referred to
in Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement shows that the road extension
is a more economic transportation alternative.
Section 3.07. ENFE shall, by December 31, 1973, submit to the Association,
for  consultation,  a   revised  salary  structure  for  its  non-managerial and
non-professional staff and, promptly after such consultation and on the basis therof,
shall implement a new salary structure for such staff.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ENFE shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. ENFE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ENFE and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall:
(a)   by March 31, 1973, carry out a study of its passenger traffic potential,
consult the Association on the conclusions thereof and after such consultation,
and at any event not later than June 30, 1973, revise its tariff for such traffic
on the basis of such conclusions and consultation; and


﻿7
(b)   whenever a substantial rise in its cost level shall take place, take
promptly all steps necessary to raise its tariffs by an amount sufficient to offset
said increase in costs.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall
take such measures as shall be necessary to achieve by 1977 a working ratio of
not more than 79, and an operating ratio of not more than 92.
Section 4.05. ENFE shall submit to the Borrower and the Association, for
their agreement and sufficiently in advance of each of its fiscal years, its proposed
annual budget for both operations and investments.
Section 4.06. ENFE shall maintain a separate account to which it shall credit
the funds the Borrower shall make available to it in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall
not incur any debt unless the amount of ENFE's net cash revenue for ENFE's
fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater,
shall be not less than 1.25 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of ENFE including the debt to be incurred.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means all debt of ENFE, including debt guaranteed by ENFE,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of the contract or other document providing for such debt;
(c)   the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating revenue from all
sources, adjusted to take account of ENFE's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and


﻿(e)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by ENFE, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ENFE shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ENFE shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ENFE and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ENFE shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ENFE of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ENFE shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Railways and all plants, sites and works of ENFE and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ENFE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿9
(ii)  a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ENFE of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ENFE:
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
Casilla 428
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿10
Cable address:
FERROBOL
La Paz
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ENFE may be taken or executed by its Gerente General or such other person
or persons as ENFE shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ENFE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ENFE, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ENFE pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional ice President.
Latin 4merica and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES
By /s / Juan Jos6 Loria
Authori:ed Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Contracts for (i) components to rehabilitate existing diesel locomotives and
railcars and to improve existing suitable passenger and freight cars, and (ii) spare
parts for existing equipment shall be awarded on a negotiated basis, with the prior
approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for equipment and materials other than those
referred to in paragraph I hereof, and associated services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ENFE shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ENFE shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, promptly inform ENFE and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for such goods and associated services,
ENFE shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds


﻿12
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
promptly inform ENFE and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and materials and associated
services included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule
I to the Development Credit Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (place of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply
to non-exempt importers, or 1.5% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.


