                                                                                                           91799
Extending Credit to the Rural Poor of Vietnam                                                              September 17, 2002
                          Increasingly, microfinance is proving to be the key that unlocks the potential of poorest in many developing
                          countries, as shown in Vietnam where farmers have been able to raise the funds to expand and where mobile
                          bankers now offer communities fair financing for their own fledgling ventures.

                          Between 1998 and 2001, a World Bank-assisted Rural Finance project provided nearly  $650,000 to 250,000
                          rural Vietnam households.  Almost a third of the borrowers were women.

                          The loans, averaging $360 each and provided through seven participating banks, were used to expand farm
production, agricultural processing, and trading.  To date, the repayment rate is 98 percent—very high compared to trends in the wider
banking system.

“This project has brought valuable new financial resources to Vietnam to fight rural poverty,” says Dr. Nguyen Van Giau, Deputy Governor
of the State Bank of Vietnam.  “Not only has it made the participating banks stronger, it has enabled thousands of farm households and
small-scale enterprises to borrow small amounts at commercial rates and expand their businesses.  Without the project, most of these
borrowers would have turned to money lenders, whose costs are much higher.”

The total credit provided by the Bank for this project was $110 million.  The project has supported several financing initiatives, reflecting
the various challenges facing Vietnamese communities. One of these is mobile banking, which provides services to remote areas without
bank branches, using specially equipped vehicles.  Since the inception of the program, each mobile bank visits an average of 62 remote
locations monthly, adding more than 200 new savings accounts and more than 500 new borrowers every month.

Already, the benefits of mobile banking exceed the costs, highlighting the need to provide more and better banking services to people in
remote areas who until now have had no formal banks to serve them. According to a study conducted by the Microfinance Resource
Center of the National Economic University in Hanoi in 2001, 99 percent of the borrowers increased their income significantly after
borrowing.


Related Links:
      Vietnam
     Rural Finance Project

 

Updated: September 2002
