                                                                                                      97569
Vietnam: Second Rural Finance Project                                                       September 23, 2010




 ENCOURAGING INVESTMENTS OF FARM HOUSEHOLDS

 Stronger banking systems for Vietnam's rural poor




Overview
The Second Rural Finance Project, implemented between 2003 and 2009, enabled the Bank
for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) to work with local financial institutions and
to spur rural investments by providing small loans to 445,000 families and micro and
small/medium enterprises (MSMEs) throughout Vietnam. On average, they saw their net
incomes rise by 60-65 percent and the project generated an estimated 274,000 additional jobs.
In addition, 275,000 microfinance loans were issued of which 37 percent were to women.
Finally, the project also led to institutional improvement: the quality and range of financial
services improved, and all participating institutions improved their risk and credit management
systems.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
The International Development Association (IDA)
and the government of Vietnam prepared the
Second Rural Finance Project in 2001-2002 at a
time when three-quarters of the whole population
and 85 percent of the poor lived in rural areas.
Because of the small size of farms, agricultural
growth needed to be combined with non-farm
employment to make a sustained attack on rural
poverty. The government’s commitment to
improving rural conditions began with market
liberalization and the provision of infrastructure.
The government was convinced that improving
the capacity of financial institutions operating in
the rural areas was also necessary to increase
the flow of funds for rural investment. The
financial sector was dominated by state-owned commercial
banks with little competition, large amounts of non-               More Results
performing loans, insufficient banking knowledge and a lack
of experienced bank staff. As a result, the flow of term


                                                                   275,000
lending to the rural areas was insufficient to meet the
investment needed to increase output and to lift a large
proportion of the rural population out of poverty.
                                                                   microfinance loans issued, 37%
                                                                   of them to women
Approach
IDA’s approach to these challenges was to support the
provision of a line of credit and the strengthening of an apex
lending institution, the Bank for Investment and Development
of Vietnam (BIDV), and participating financial institutions        445,000
(PFIs). The line of credit fed two funds that were wholesaled      families and small enterprises
by the apex institution. The Rural Development Fund II (RDF        saw their incomes rise by 60-
                                                                      65%
II) provided resources for PFIs to on-lend at market-
determined interest rates to households and MSMEs for
investments in agriculture and rural-based businesses. The
Microfinance Loan Fund (MLF) was channeled through                    MORE INFORMATION
accredited microfinance institutions (MFIs) to individuals and         Vietnam and the World Bank
microenterprises, with loan amount ceilings set at a relatively
low level to ensure that the rural poor were the beneficiaries.        Second Rural Finance Project
The BIDV and the PFIs all prepared Institutional                       Press release
Development Plans, the implementation of which was
                                                                       Feature: A Rural Finance
supported by the project through technical assistance (TA)             Program Targets Women’s
and training.                                                          Poverty & Social Issues


Results
Measured by the volume of investment funding channeled to
                                                                   
the rural areas, the project was a major success. At the
project’s closing in September 2009:

       Field surveys of sub-borrowers indicate that their incomes grew by 60-65 percent as a
       result of the investments made.

       The number of incremental jobs created was estimated at 274,000—more than five
       times the initial target.

       The project had financed a range of investments by 445,000 families and small
       enterprises throughout Vietnam, supporting nearly three times more families and
       MSMEs than was originally planned.

       This is the first operation in Vietnam requiring commercial banks to apply environmental
       standards for small loans.

       Twenty-five PFIs/MFIs were active.

On financial sector issues, the project has been an important complement to the broader TA
provided by the financial sector team and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It has helped
the World Bank to build a strong partnership with financial institutions in Vietnam and to
implement the agreed policy initiatives on the ground. The project has been instrumental in
achieving significant improvements at individual banks. The training, TA support and continuous
policy dialogue and advice from the Bank have transformed the wholesale bank into one of the
strongest and most transparent financial institutions in Vietnam, and the first one to get a
Moody’s credit rating. The TA program has also had a major impact on the strategy framework,
governance, operational structure and human resources strategy of Vietnam Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development, Vietnam’s biggest bank.

Bank Contribution
Through IDA, the World Bank provided US$236.4 million, financing 37 percent of total project
investments. The PFIs provided 400 percent, and the sub-borrowers more than 600 percent, of
the resources anticipated in the project’s design. The high demand for technical assistance and
training to support institutional development caused the budget allocation of this component to
be increased, from US$4.8 million estimated at appraisal to an actual cost of US$10.3 million.

Partners
The project benefited from strong collaboration and partnership with the State Bank of Vietnam
(the central bank) and the Ministry of Finance. During preparation, wide consultation took place
with the U.K.’s Department for International Development, the Japan International Cooperation
Agency, and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) practicing microfinancing
operations in Vietnam.
Moving Forward
The government and the BIDV have made a commitment to continue to manage the revolving
fund in line with the original project development objectives of strengthening the banking
system’s capacity in the rural areas, encouraging rural investment and increasing the access of
the rural poor to formal financial services. The long-term sustainability of the project’s
interventions depends upon: (a) the continued profitability of rural investment in the context of
continuing economic liberalization; and (b) the prudent assessment of credit risk by the BIDV
and the PFIs, which have improved their financial position and have become stronger
institutions under the project. Key government agencies and financial institutions decided to
build on the successful outcome of the project with a follow-on Third Rural Finance Project
(TRFP), which became effective in 2009. The TRFP offers an opportunity to sustain the
dialogue on key institutional issues that require long-term engagement.

Beneficiaries
There were approximately 275,000 MLF sub-loans with an average amount of less than
US$350, most of them going to the poor. Some 32 percent of the funding went to the poorest
region, the Northern Midlands and Mountains, while 43 percent went to the Red River Delta,
which while having a relatively lower poverty rate, includes a large absolute number of poor
households. Some 37 percent of all sub-loans were made to women.

 
