                                                                                                               97584
Vietnam: Second Rural Finance Project                                                                  April 5, 2011




 Encouraging rural investments: strengthening the banking system to
 promote investment of farm households, private rural entrepreneurs


Overview
The World Bank has helped boost incomes and livelihoods in rural Vietnam through a project
that financed a wide range of rural investments by 445,000 families and small enterprises
whose net incomes rose by an average of 60-65%. Investment lending by 25 participating
financial institutions to private rural entrepreneurs increased fourteen-fold and the volume of
lending to the poor and to micro-enterprises jumped 250%. The quality and range of financial
services improved, and all participating institutions improved their risk and credit management
systems.



Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
The project was prepared in 2001-2002 at a
time when three-quarters of the population and
85% of its poor lived in rural areas. Because of
the small size of farms, agricultural growth
needed to be combined with non-farm
employment to make a sustained attack on rural
poverty. The government’s commitment to
improving rural conditions began with market
liberalization and the provision of infrastructure,
but it was convinced that the improved capacity
of financial institutions operating in rural areas
was necessary to increase the flow of funds for
rural investment. The financial sector was
dominated by state-owned commercial banks
with little competition, large amounts of non-
performing loans and insufficient banking
knowledge and experience. As a result, the flow of term
lending to rural areas was insufficient to enable the                More Results
investment needed to increase output and lift a large
proportion of the rural population out of poverty.

Approach                                                             445,000
The Bank’s approach to these challenges was to                       families and small enterprises
simultaneously support the provision of a line of credit and         whose incomes rose by an
                                                                     average of 60-65% through a
the strengthening of an apex lending institution and                 wide range of rural investments
participating financial institutions. The line of credit fed two
funds that were wholesaled by the apex institution, the Bank
for Investment, and Development of Vietnam (BIDV). The
                                                                     MORE INFORMATION
Rural Development Fund II provided resources for financial
institutions to on-lend at market-determined interest rates to        Second Rural Finance Project
households and micro-, small- and medium-scale enterprises            Country Website
for investments in agriculture rural-based businesses. The
Micro-Finance Loan Fund was channeled through accredited              Country Brief
microfinance institutions to individuals and micro-enterprises,       Country Partnership Strategy
with loan amount ceilings set at a relatively low level to
                                                                      Data and Statistics
ensure that the rural poor were the beneficiaries. The BIDV
and participating financial institutions all prepared institutional   Feature Story
development plans, and the Bank helped provide technical              Website: International
assistance and training to support their implementation.              Development Association


Results
At its closing in September 2009, the project was showing
significant gains across a wide range of measures:



       Field surveys made of samples of sub-borrowers indicate that their incomes grew by 60-
       65% as a result of the investments made.

       The number of incremental jobs created was estimated at 274,000—equivalent to 550%
       of the appraisal estimate—and jobs were created in a wide range of sub-sectors from
       basic agricultural production to transport and manufacturing.

       The project had financed a wide range of investments by 445,000 families and small
       enterprises throughout Vietnam—equivalent to 250% of the appraisal target.

       This is the first operation in Vietnam requiring commercial banks to apply environmental
       standards for small loans.

       Twenty-five financial institutions and microfinance institutions were active, as planned.

       On financial sector issues, the project has been an important complement to the broader
       technical assistance provided by the financial sector team and the International
       Monetary Fund. It has helped the Bank to build a strong partnership with the financial
       institutions in Vietnam and to implement on the ground the agreed policy initiatives,
       including the adoption of international banking standards. It has been instrumental in
       achieving significant improvements at individual banks.

       The training, technical support, and the continuous policy dialogue and advice from the
       Bank have transformed the wholesale bank into one of the strongest and most
       transparent financial institutions in Vietnam, and the first one to get a Moody’s credit
       rating.

       The program of technical assistance has supported significant strengthening of the
       strategy framework, governance, operational structure and human resources strategy of
       the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, Vietnam’s biggest bank.

There were some 275,000 sub-loans averaging less than US$350 by the Micro-Finance Loan
Fund, with most of these expected to have reached the poor. Of these sub-loans, 32% of the
funding went to the poorest region, the Northern Midlands and Mountains. Another 43% went
to the relatively poor Red River Delta, which, while having a relatively lower poverty rate,
includes a large absolute number of poor households. Some 37% of all sub-loans were made
to women, with the proportion by participating financial institutions ranging from 10% to 50% in
the case of Rural Development Fund I and from 13% to 67% in the case of the Micro Finance
Loan Fund.

Voices
     Our living standards were very low and we had a hard life. All
   we dreamt of was enough food, not delicious meals. The program
   has made a big difference to us.
                            — Mrs. Pham Thi Chau, a widow from the
                         Tran Hung Dao commune, Tay Ninh Province


Bank Contribution
The World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA), its fund to assist the world’s
poorest people, provided US$236.4 million, equal to 37% of the project’s total investments. The
participating financial institutions provided 400% of the resources anticipated in the project’s
design, and the sub-borrowers more than 600%. The high demand for technical assistance and
training to support institutional development caused the budget allocation for this component to
increase to an actual cost of US$10.3 million from an initial estimate of US$4.8 million.

Toward the Future
The Government and the BIDV have made a commitment to continue to manage the revolving
fund in line with the original project development objectives of strengthening the banking
system’s capacity in the rural areas, encouraging rural investment and increasing the access of
the rural poor to formal financial services. The long-term sustainability of the project’s
interventions depends upon: (a) the continued profitability of rural investment in the context of
continuing economic liberalization; and (b) the prudent assessment of credit risk by the BIDV
and the participating financial institutions which have improved their financial positions under
this project. Key government agencies and financial institutions decided to build on the
successful outcome of the project with a follow-on Third Rural Finance Project which became
effective in 2009.
