Docum  of
The World Bank
- JOE OmCL USE ONLY
IN(/. QG6I d - JA
lain No. P-4207-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
INDIA
(IN THE AMOUNT OF $165 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
(IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
FOR THE
CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
February 14, 1986
Ith damet hs a a         ist ddIm ad ma be and by redplkals only In the performane Of
dher  chl dfth. It Wteat  w  nu edrwie b. dlshS e     h  Werd Dank andetta I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =   Rsl3.O
Rs 1.00       =   US$0.077
Rs 1 million  =   US$76.92
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1.00 = Rs 13
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
Covernment : ApriL 1 - March 31
ICICI      : April 1 - March 31
IDRI       : ApriL 1 - March 31
Companies  : Birla, CCI, ICL  -  April 1  - March 31
KCP              -  July 1  - June 30
ACC              -  August 1 - July 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC              - Associated Cement Companies
Birla            - Birla Jute and Industries, Ltd.
CCI              - Cement Corporation of India
CMA              - Cement Manufacturers' Association
DEA              - Department of Economic Affairs
FOB              - Free on Board
GDP              - Gross Domestic Product
GNP              - Cross National Product
Government (GOI) - Government of India
HLC              - High Level Committee on the Cement Industry
ICB              - International Competitive Bidding
ICICi            - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
ICL              - India Cements, Ltd.
IDBT             - Industrial Development Bank of India
OPC              - Ordinary Portland Cement
PPC              - Pozzolana Portland Cement
- Shree Dig Vijay Cement Co. Ltd.
STC              - State Trading Corporat-%n
TPD              - Tons per Day
TYP              - Tons per Year
UP               - Uttar Pradesh



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    GOI Loan:    India acting by its President.
ICICI Loan:  Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited
(ICICI)
Amount:                      US$200 million equivalent consisting of:  GOI
Loan: US$165 million; and ICICI Loan: US$35
million.
Terms:                       GOI and l-ICI Loans:  20 years, including
5 years' grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
On-lending Terms:            GOI Loan:  GOI would provide US$1.5 million
equivalent to ICICI as a nonreimbursable
grant. The balance of US$163.5 million would
be onlent to the ICICI and the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) in equal
proportions, to be repaid over a period not
exceeding 20 years with a grace period not
exceeding 5 years, and would bear GOI's
standard interest rates for loans to finan-
cial institutions (currently 10.25Z per
annum). GOI would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the loan. Subloans would be repaid
over a period not exceeding 13 years includ-
ing 4.5 years' grace, with interest at ICICI
and IDBI standard rates on rupee loans
(currently 14% per annum). Proceeds of the
US$35 million ICICI loan would be relent to
subborrowers on terms ranging between 7-10
years and up to 2 years' grace, with an
interest rate at the variable IBRD rate plus
a spread of 2Z per annum.
Project Description:         The project would help the cement industry
of India to achieve a higher operating
efficiency through (i) modernization of its
facilities including conversion of six
private sector cement plants (Associated
Cement Companies' Mudukkarai and Shahabad,
Birla Jute and Industries Satna, India
Cements Limited Sankarnagar KCP's Macherla
and Sri Digvijay Cement Company Sikka), and
one public sector plant (Cement Corporation
This document has a restrited disrbuto and may be used by recipients only in the performanCe of|
Ithde ofricisl dume Its wntents may not otherwise be discled without World Bank autborization.



of India's Mandhar Plant), from the
inefficient wet process to a modern dry
process-precalciner technology, and small-
scale rehabilitation and modernization
investments at other cement plants;
(ii) training programs and curriculum
development; and (iii) technical assistance.
The project would improve fuel efficiency,
increase cement output, enhance environmental
control, upgrade operator skills, and promote
the policy for complete decontrol of pricing
and output. The project faces no specific
risks, except those associated with
infrastructure constraints including, inter
alia, shortage of transport facilities, coal,
and power supply.
Estimated Cost /a                                  (US$ Millions)
Local     Foreign       Total
(a) Conversion Subprojects, Training
and Technical Assistance
- Base Cost (June 1985 Prices)         141.1       131.2      272.3
- Physical Contingencies                10.6       - 9.0       19.6
- Price Escalation                      24.6        18.8       43.4
TOTAL                         176.3       159.0       335.3
- Interest during Construction          30.1        15.6       45.7
Total Financing Required
(Conversion, Training             206.4       174.6       381.0
and Technical Assistance)
(b) Small Scale Modernization
and Rehabilitation                    52.3       36.5        88.8
GRAND TOTAL                   258.7       211.1       469.8
/a   Includes US$55 of taxes and duties.



Financing Plan:                                       US$ Millions
Local      Foreign    Total
GOI                                       113.5        15.6       129.1
ICICI/IDBI & Other                        133.3         7.4       140.7
IBRD                                       11.9       188.1       200.0
258.7      211.1       469.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IBRD FY                FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92
Annual                  6.5    46.7    74.6    47.8    17.5        5.7    1.2
Cumulative              6.5    53.2   127.8   175.6   193.1   198.8  200.0
Rate of Return:           About 25X.
Appraisal Report:         No. 5901-IN, dated December 23, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS TO INDIA AND ICICI
FOR THE CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed loans
to India and ICICI for US$175 million equivalent on standard IBRD terms, to
help finance a cement industry project, in order to enhance the operating
efficiency of the cement industry, increase production of cement and upgrade
operator skills. Of the proceeds of the US$140 million loan to India,
US$1.5 million would be passed on by GOI to the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India Ltd., (ICICI) as a non-refundable grant to
finance training and technical assistance at the subsectoral level;
US$138.5 million would be onlent in equal proportions to ICICI and the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) to finance conversion of six cement
plants, provide project related training and technical assistance and assist in
upgrading major training facilities. US$35 million would be a loan to
ICICI,with the guarantee of the Government of India, to finance small-scale
modernization and rehabilitation of other cement plants.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1 /
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Backtround
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 760
million (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36Z of GDP, 23%
of exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in
population, which continues at a rate of 2.2% a year, has put increasing
pressure on natural resources, in particular cultivable land. By the mid-
1960s, nearly all productive land had been brought under cultivation. While
irrigation continues to increase total cultivable area, an increasing share of
the labor force will have to be absorbed in non-agricultural activities.
Industrial deve'lopment has not progressed rapidly enough to provide employment
opportunities for the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result the long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4%
p.a. and close to one-half of India's population continues to live below the
poverty line. The pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its
alleviation has been and remains at the core of India's development strategy.
]j Parts I and 11 of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the NABARD Credit Project (No. P-4225-IN), dated
February 3, 1986.



-2-
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was generally
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable
external position. GDP rose at about 3.5%, with agriculture and industry
growing at 1.8% and 4.8% respectively; imports increased by 4.6% and exports by
5.8Z a year. India was able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports from
a peak of 14Z of total foodgrain consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5Z by 1969/70
through improvements in agricultural production, but progress in poverty
alleviation was slow mainly because of continued high population growth.
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in
India's terms of trade, the Government introduced various policy measures
designed to stimulate exports. This resulted in a large increase in export
growth to about 7.3X per annum in the 1970s compared with only 2.2% per annum
between 1950/51 and 1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported
inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role. The success
in the export expansion effort coupled with continued import substitution,
particularly of foodgrains resulted in a surplus on current account between
1976/77 and 1978/79, which was further enhanced by increased concessional aid
flows. India was thus in a relatively favorable position to deal with the
increases in international oil prices, the sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade and a series of poor harvests. The comfortable foreign exchange position
also played a major role in the Government's decision to initiate import
liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts
which caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition,
industrial production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply
shortages (coal, power and transportation), failed to expand. These events
coincided with a second round of international oil price increases. As a
result, the current account reverted to a deficit position and the remarkable
price stability that the Indian economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an adjustment program, which was
embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed at
raising the GDP growth rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% per annum
while adjusting the country's external balance to the adverse price develop-
ments in world markets. The major elements of the program were alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence, improved
efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient import
substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective despite
the severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external environment in
the early 1980s. During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.1% per annum, 1/
l/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1% per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983184 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-3-
vell above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. However, overall growth
during the first half of the 1980s has not been steady, mainly because of the
effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82,
the economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP
groving by 7.6Z and 5.3%, respectively. The recovery was particularly robust
in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% in
1980/81 and 5.5% in 1981182. A severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic
recovery to a halt. Agricultural output declined by 4Z, which in turn reduced
GDP growth to only 1.8Z, and put further strains on the balance of payments
and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic
policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the
increased allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the adverse effects
of the poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon combined with satisfactory perfor-
mance of the infrastructure sectors, in particular coal and transport, led to a
recovery of the economy in 1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 9%, industrial
output by 4.5% and overall GDP by 7.4%. The power sector, however, emerged
again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85,
despite a mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate
growth of the economy is likely to range between 4 and 4.5%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow
at an average annual rate of 2.6% a year-sufficient to maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress
achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand
irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage efficient use of other agricul-
tural inputs which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests have led to
record foodgrain stocks in recent years. Over the past year, Government held
stocks have increased by more than 40%. Maintenance of ample, balanced operat-
ing stocks to ensure smooth operation and even expansion of the public
distribution system remains a top priority of Indian agricultural policy. Yet,
the financial cost of foodgrain storage and subsidies represent a rapidly
growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow
and uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.4% a year--below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment,
coupled with depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as
well as labor unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated growth
of the industrial sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80, manufacturing
output grew at 1.7% in 1980/81 and 3.32 1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which
led to widespread shortfalls of agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in
the demand for consumer durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in
Bombay, reduced the growth of industrial output to 1.7% in that year.
Following the excellent monsoon in 1983/84, industrial output gained momentum
and grew by 5.0%. Preliminary estimates place the growth of the manufacturing
sector at about 5.5Z in 1984185.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the Sixth
Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway traffic
grew by 8.7%, 6% and 2.5% a year respectively, oil and gas production increased
by 22.6%. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is largely the result
of India-s oil development program. Backed by substantial financial
commitment, performance under the program has been excellent with real invest-
ment and oil production levels running well ahead of Plan targets. In 1984/85



-4-
domestic oil production is estimated to have reached 29.4 million tons. While
the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large,
Iudia's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to
30% in 1984/85. About two-thirds of current output comes from offshore fields
around Bombay High. As most of these fields have now reached thei.: mature
stage, further increases in domestic oil production will have to c : mainly
from new discoveries.
11.     India's economy nias reverted from a situation of a resource eurplus iu
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan period.
The gap between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels to an average of 2.1% of GDP in 1980-85. Gross domestic capital forma-
tion increased from an average of 22.6% of GDP in 1975-80 to 24.7% in 1980-85
while gross national savings remair.'d constant at an average of 22.6% of GDP in
both periods. The increase in capital formation mainly resulted from an
increase in the public investment rate, but it was largely a financial rather
than a real phenomenon since prices of investment goods increased considerably
faster than the general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to provide
sufficient- r-esources for growth and planned investment while maintaining infla-
tion under control. However, the SiKth Plan period was characterized by Sig-
nificant budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive additional resource
mobilization efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 7% of GDP as compared to
only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s. The shortfall was met by additional
market borrowings, both domestically and from abroad and by deficit financing.
Major reasons behind the large deficits were continued losses by most
departmentally-run undertakings, unsatisfactory performance of the two major
non-departmental undertakings of the States (the State Electricity Boards and
the State Road Transport Corporations), and the increasing importance of sub-
sidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8% of GDP in 1984/85. Of these,
fertilizer accounted for more than 0Q8% of GDP, and food subsidies nearly 0.5%
of GDP.
13.     D-:velopments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had recorded
surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging
US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during 1980-85.  Several developments con-
tributed to these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade
deteriorated sharply in I079/80 due to Lhe secord round of oil price increases
and continued to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s.
Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued.
Third, net invisibles d.eclined as travel. receipts fell off, workers' remit-
tances stagnated (reflecting slower development acti'Ji1ty in the Middle East),
and payment of interest on highP7 levels of foreign debt increased. Fourth,
export growth was sluggish partly due to growing domestic demand, and, perhaps
most significantly, due to depressed foreign markets and prices. Faced with a
growing need for external capital inflows and stagnatior in the availability of
concessional assistance, India drew SDR 3.9 billion .rom the Extended Fund
Facility of the IMF and borrtrwed sigvificant amounts on commercial terms from
the Euro-dollar market and inicxeased rhe use of suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during -.he Sixth Plan period has been mixed.  The
overall improvemert in economic performance in .he e;rly 1980s, combined with
more restrictive monetary poll- es in 1981j82 and i982/g3, resulted in a sharp



-5-
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined
from 18Z in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83. The lagged effects of shortages
of foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other agricultural products and industrial
goods in 1983/84 coupled with a rise in the domestic cost of imports and rapid
liquidity growth, gave a boost to inflationary pressures towards the end of
1983/84. The annual average growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9% in
1983/84, and the rate of growth of consumer prices exceeded 12Z. In September
1984, the Government took a number of measures to dampen pressure on prices
including increased imports of important agricultural comodities (sugar, jute,
coconut oil and others), releases of sugar stocks for distribution through fair
price shops, and a reduction in wheat prices for flour mills. These measures,
together with a decline in cereal prices as a result of the bumper crop in
1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in the
rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1% in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the
progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated GDP growth,
external adjustment, and increased investment. The experience of recent years
illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid
pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key policies and
programs, particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and effectiveness of
public administration, that neither the serious political disturbances in
Punjab, nor the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, resulted in
significant disruptions to the performance of the economy in the last year of
the Sixth Plan. But the results during the Plan period also highlight the
disappointing performance of industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric
power generation, the rising public sector deficits, the importance of regain-
ing and sustaining momentum in export growth and the need for continued prudent
economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of inflation while generating
adequate resources for development. This mixture of achievements and
challenges provides the context for an assessment of development prospects and
policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of growth of GDP
of at least 5Z. The Seventh Plan which will lay down the development strategy
for 1985/86-1989/90 is alsn likely to continue the emphasis on agriculture,
energy development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where
economically justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks.
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5Z a year will place heavy demands on
policy adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to:
(a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy changes
which enhance competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the
economy by improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of
energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including
particularly the existing capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.



-6-
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade. As
possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth will
depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land through
further development of irrigation, better water management, more intensive use
of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services, and appropriate
pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the
country's irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation projects, as
well as selective investment in new undertakings. Besides creating new irriga-
tion potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced
through the improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation
systems. Greater emphasis should also be given to obtaining higher yields
under rainfed and dryland farming conditions. Finally, even greater efforts
must be made to build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient
delivery of agricultural services, input supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and export
growth to be attained through improved productivity and efficiency. A key
requirement will be greater competitive pressure on industry than has been the
case in the past. The size and domestic orientation of the Indian economy make
it necessary that this competitive pressure come mainly from within the
domestic economy. An important complement, however, will be greater exposure
to foreign trade to stimulate domestic competition as well as to induce
technological innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to allow
freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater reliance on
market price signals. While the Government has taken various initiatives in
the above directions during the past several years, the most significant were
announced in the context of the 1985186 Budget. These include the broadening
of licensing categories for certain industries, delicensing for others,
increases in the size limits for MRTP 1/ and small-scale industries, reductions
in the incentive for small-scale industries to stay small and various initia-
tives to stimulate efficient indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy
exploration equipment, computers, telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles
and parts, general electronics). These are significant advances that need to
be sustained in future years.
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimulate
export growth which is essential not only for current financing of imports, but
to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to the
economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-
consciousness of competitive external markets. While some changes have been
recently introduced, there remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to
imported inputs and capital goods through continued import liberalization
(b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and lowering their overall level; and
(c) modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of incentives is
more neutral between exports and import substitution.
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-7-
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently con-
stitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency with
which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the efficiency
of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy. There is
substantial evidence that better planning and management of public investments
in power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns and lower the
current capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use of investment
couli be achieved by better water management in irrigation projects, improved
load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity utilization in the
fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6% in
1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high GDP growth
rates realized during the Sixth Plan period--while holding foreign savings as a
share of GDP at prudent levels--will require some further increase in the
aggregate savings rate especially in public savings. Because there will
continue to be well-founded demands for expansion of current and capital
expenditures in the public sector, the burden for a reduction in the savings
investment gap has to be put on the revenue side. Increasing tax rates beyond
their current high levels would be counter productive. Thus, economically
efficient pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements in
their operational efficiency, are to be preferred over tax increases as
vehicles for increased public resource mobilization. The sheer size of past
and present public enterprise investment indicates that if proper returns were
made even only a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 3% of GDP would
be attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made-with Bank assistance-to increase
efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved and expanded
into new areas.
24.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5Z per annum
will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance of
payments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a substan-
tial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for continued import
substitution of key bulk commodity items. Bank staff estimates place the
export volume growth necessary to support these growing import requirements
without excessive increases in external borrowing at about 8% a year over the
Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed higher export
growth rates appear to be reasonably good because India's share in total world
exports in value terms is only about 0.4Z, leaving ample room for growth.
Furthermore, India's exports are relatively less sensitive to fluctuations in
demand in the OECD industrial countries because exports are well diversified
with respect to both products and markets. Nevertheless, success in India's
export drive will depend heavily on changes in domestic policy to improve the
supply and profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to need
substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5% GDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the forn of official development assistance. In more
recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has declined.



-8-
Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a level of about
US$1.3 billiou per annum over the years 1979/80-1981182 to US$1 billion in
1983184. Moreover, there was a large deterioration in the terms of aid from
multilateral sources. For example, while total lending from the Bank Group
continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element declined from 71% to
41% as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of US$1,535 million in FY80
to US$673 million in FY85.
26.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing required
would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing from
official and commercial sources. This vill increase India's debt service ratio
from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6Z by 1989/90. Provided India can in
fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier, and provided
India's past record of prudent borrowing and debt management continues, the
country should be able to raise the projected amounts. While its foreign
resource requirements would be manageable, the increase in its external debt
exposure would leave it with little cushion to deal with unfavorable even-
tualities and with the risks of policy change.
27.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments cousequences of the growth strategy described
earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or ntmanageable terms. While therefore a
greater volume of both official concessional and non-concessional assistance
is warranted, concessional assistance, in particular, will be invaluable in
moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden. Apart from the quan-
titative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the imperative to assist
Tndia in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty. While India is now
better placed than other poor countries to tackle its development problems, the
mobilization of additional resources to address poverty problems is heavily
constrained. Concessional assistance can also play a very important role in
relieving this constraint.
28.     Summary. India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per auuum. If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income
of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant
difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India. Development prospects
over the next few years will hinge on the extent to which the economy can be
brought into both internal and external balance, while at the same time achiev-
ing more rapid growth than in the past.  This will require the continuation of
the current development strategy which assigns high priority to export
promotion, public finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and
investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing
and aid.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 91 loans and 182 development
credits to India totalling US$8,487 million and US$13,753 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,544 million has been
repaid, and US$7,360 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1985.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1985 totalled US$179 million, representing an increase of about
5 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a sumary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1985.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 35 commitments in India totalling
US$301 million, of which a total of US$168 million has been repaid, sold,
terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$133 million, US$126 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A sumary statement of IFC disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the the Seventh Plan. First, high
priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India
has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to
be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to
contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will
continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and
agricultural extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promot-
ing greater efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector,
increased assistance will be provided for industrial development. Third, in
line with the stress which the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion and more
efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of
India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will continue to
provide substantial support to the development of the energy, transport and
telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial secto2s. Fourth, support of
urban development and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor



-10-
vill also continue in light of the growth in population which, despite succes-
ses in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each
year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in sup-
port of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in
part to the response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth rates achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As
in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include
the financing of local expenditures.  India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectc-rs as
agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 billion
in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Lank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank Group
accounted for 22% of total commitments, 11% of gross disbursements, and 10% of
net disbursements as compared with 68%, 38% and 47%, respectively, in 1984/85.
In 1984/85, about 26.3% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1985, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.5 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$11.1 billion or 42% (IDA's US$8.9 billion and IBRD's US$2.2 billion).
As of September 30, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the
Bank totalled US$20,696 million, of which US$7,360 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$13,336 million.



-11-
PART III - CEMENqT INDUSTRY iN InDI
Background
36.     India's cement industry accounts for about 3.5Z of the total production
of the industrial sector, and in 1984/85 represented about 1Z of GDP at factor
cost. In 1983/84, the subsector including limestone quarries, employed about
100,000 people, or about 1.2% of total employment in the organized industrial
sector (cement plants alone account for 70,000, or 0.8Z of the total industrial
employment).
37.     The industry comprises 73 integrated plants, six grinding units, one
clinkerization unit, one white cement plant, and 26 mini cement plants with
a total installed capacity of 42.6 million tons per year (TPY). About 58% of
the total kiln capacity is based on energy-efficient dry or semi-dry processes,
and the balance (34 plants) on wet-process technology. The average size of the
plants is expected to increase from 535,000 TPY in 1984/85 to 650,000 TPY by
the end of the Seventh Plan period in 1989/90. The private sector owns 82Z of
installed cement manufacturing capacity and accounts for 86Z of total cement
production. A few major industrial groups including Associated Cement
Companies (ACC), Birla House, J.K. Singahnia, Sahu Jain, Bangurs and India
Cements, control about 60% of the cenent production in the private sector. The
public sector accounts for about 14% of total cement production, of which the
Cement Corporation of India (CCI) accounts for about 6.6%, and eight State
Government-owned small companies account for the balance of 7.4%. Of the
installed capacity, about 68% is located in the South and West regions of the
country.
Subsector-s Performance
38.     India's first cement plant was established in 1914, but the industry
grew slowly until a policy to protect infant industries was introduced in the
mid-1930s. By 1950/51, capacity had reached 3.5 million TPY, and reached 15
million TPY by 1974. While capacity grew by almost 5.7Z per year, due to
various infrastructure and input constraints, including a shortage of transpor-
tation facilities and power supply and labor problems, output grew by only 1.5%
per year. Since 1974 cement production has grown at an average rate of 7.4%
per annum, and between 1982 and 1985, annual production increased from 21.1
million tons to 30.2 million tons. During the Sixth Plan period (1980-85),
rapid growth has been stimulated by changes in GOI-s policies with regard to
pricing, output control and distribution. Following the dual pricing system
introduced in 1982, capacity utilization and production increased
substantially, imports decreased and the free market prices declined in real
terms. Nevertheless, gaps remain between potential and actual production, and
between supply and demand for cement. Although capacity grew by about 10% per
year during 1980-85, capacity utilization declined to about 72.7%, because of a
unmber of factors including declining quality and quantity of coal, the
shortage of electricity and railway wagons, labor and maintenance problems and
"teething" problems with respect to the new and expanded units. In order to
mimimize the problems caused by interruptions in power supply, the industry has
installed capt.ve power generation plants. However, due to the old age of the
cement plants accounting for about 30% of the total installed plant capacity,
low capacity utilization persists. In addition, the problems associated with



-12-
the use of high ash coal have been aggravated by these old plants vhich are
based on wet process technology.
Costs and Viability
39.    Notwithstanding the above problems, the subsector is an ect.i-aic
producer of cement. The 1985 investment cost of a plant with a capa-ity of one
million TPY is estimated at US$90-120 per annual ton of cement in India,
compared with US$170-200 internationally. The average operating costs of the
Indian plants estimated at US$30 per ton of unbagged cement are comparable to
costs in some European countries including France, West Germany and the United
Kingdom. However, India's comparative advantage vith regard to operating
costs, deriving from the low price of coal as well as low wage rates, is fast
eroding, particularly for the old wet-process plants. In order to avoid
further deterioration, India must modernize the existing plants and equipment
and upgrade operator skills.
The Indian Cement Market
40.    SUpDly and Demand. Cement has been continuously in short supply in
India over the last two decades. While a part of the shortfall has been met
through imports, a large unsatisfied demand continues to exist. The gap
between supply and demand has been narrowing, however, since the Governments
introduced decontrol measures. Indeed, some government agencies project a
slight excess in supply in the near future. The Bank's estimates hawever,
indicate that the cement shortage will continue into the next decade although
to a lesser extent.
41.     Distribution and Pricimu. At present the Government partially controls
the distribution and pricing of cement, but it is steadily moving toward sub-
stantial decontrol. Under the dual pricing system introduced in 1982, cement
manufacturers are required to sell a specific portion of their production to
the Government at a fixed (levy) price; the balance may be sold at the open
market price. The price formula was intended to assure the cement industry a
post tax return of 12% on net vorth. The levy cement is allocated and dis-
tributed to different regions of the country by the Office of the Cement
Controller. A freight equalization system ensures a uniform levy price
throughout the country. The present FOR levy price is Rs 1042/ton of Ordinary
Portland Cement (OPC), and Rs 1037/ton for other types of cement. Most of the
levy cement is for the Central and State goverrments~ projects. The levy price
was to be adjusted periodically in line with changes in the costs of inputs.
Since 1982, GOI has progressively increased the levy price and reduced the levy
share from about 61% to under 50% of the total production, thereby bringing the
average price to about 90% of the current border price.
42.    The price of non-levy cement is determined by the cement manufacturers
who adhere to voluntary price restraints. The basic consideration is that the
average ex-factory price-levy plus non levy, should provide a manufacturer a
12Z post tax return on average networth. In this context, a ceiling was set at
Rs 1,380/ton (including excise duty of Rs 225/ton) in Kerala, Maharashtra, GOA,
Jasu and Kashmir and the Northeasteria States, and Rs 1,280/ton in all the
other states. Hlowever, due to seasonal variations in demand and distribution
bottlenecks, price levels have risen to as high as Rs 1,700/ton in some urban
areas. Cement is sold through stockists functioning both as retailers and as



-13-
wholesalers. However, as increasing amounts of cement become available in the
free market, manufacturers have begun to appreciate the need to establish
effective marketing and distribution facilities to smooth out short-term price
swings, capture and retain market share and reach new segments of consumers.
43.     Cement imports have been handled by the State Trading Corporation (STC)
which is the only body now authorized to import cement. The price of recent
imports has been around US$50/ton, which, after a 15Z import duty and an excise
duty of Rs 205/ton, retails at Rs 1,200/ton.  Large increases in imports would
be difficult to handle by the existing distribution systems, and until bulk
facilities are available, imported cement can only have a marginal effect on
the overall supply-demand balance and pricing.
44.     As already stated, GOI's longer-term objective is substantial decontrol
of the cement industry. However, in order to minimize the budgetary impact and
partly because of the need for time to modernize their plants and become more
competitive, and improve marketing and distribution systems, GOI has decided to
decontrol progressively. It intends to continue to review its policies from
time to time in order to effect further and progressive liberalization of
distribution and pricing. GOI has agreed to: (i) a steady reduction in the
quantity of cement subject to levy; (ii) continue to raise the levy price until
it is equated with the market price; and (iii) exchange views with the Bank
regarding progress on achieving the policy objectives in the cement subsector
during the Seventh Plan period. Simultaneously, the industry must address the
following problems: Ci) obsolete cement plants and equipment; (ii) outdated
and inefficient wet process technology in respect of 42Z of the installed
capacity; (iii) lack of effective marketing organization and distribution
systems; (iv) inadequate attention to product quality; (v) poor coal quality
and its effect on management of the limestone resource base; and (vi) lack of
industry-wide operator training programs. Priority needs include upgrading of
the old plant facilities and operator training-the focus of the proposed
project. The issue of coal quality which has a direct bearing on the manage-
ment and operating life of existing limestone reserves is being addressed
through the ongoing Bank assisted program of modernization in the coal sector.
As the market becomes increasingly competitive, the need to improve the market-
ing and distribution system is being addressed by the industry by training
personnel and establishing the required facilities. Sufficient incentives
would be available under the Governent's policy to deregulate of prices to
accelerate this trend and to allow for substantial improvements in the area of
marketing and distribution. Finally, GOI is aiming at improving the efficiency
of the units owned by the various state Governments so that they can also
attain industrywide standards of performance.
Bank Grou, Involvement
45.     Following our 1980 subsector study, the Bank has pursued an active
dialogue with GOI, culminating in the preparation of the proposed project
(Para 39). Bank involvement has contributed to the design and structuring of
the project including the proposed procurement arrangements (ICB). The IPC
made its first investment in the cement subsector in 1981, when it financed a
greenfield plant for Coromandel Fertilizer Limited. Since then it has
supported other greenfield plants as well as major expansions for the Indian
Rayon Corporation Ltd., Modi Cements Ltd., Gvalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing
Company, and Larsen and Toubro Ltd. In addition, IFC has assisted in arranging



-14-
financing for expansion and large-scale greenfield plants for new entrants in
the cement industry. The IFC assistance covers about 4 million TPY of cement
manufacturing capacity expected to be fully operational by 1990, representing
about 101 of present installed capacity. The IFC's further involvement in the
subsector is limited because its cement portfolio now represents about 32% of
IFC's total exposure in India. The justification for Bank involvement is
detailed below (Para 48).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Backs round
46.     The project was appraised in May 1985.  Negotiations were held in
Washington in December 1985 with the Indian delegation coordinated by
Mr. Malhotra of the Government of India's Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5901-IN) dated
December 23, 1985 is being circulated separately. A supplementary data sheet
is attached as Annex III.
Proiect Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
47. The project's primary objectives are to: (i) improve the operating
efficiency of old wet-process cement plants by conversion to the modern, dry
process; (ii) implement improvements in fuel efficiency, product quality,
environmental control, labor productivity and marketing and distribution
system; and (iii) upgrade plant operator skills. Over the past five years, the
Bank and GOI have been involved in an extensive dialogue regarding the cement
industry on the basis of the Banks 1980 comprehensive cement subsector
analysis. Its Report (No. 3141-IN) recommended, inter alia, that (i) the
production and pricing of cement be gradually decontrolled; (ii) technology be
upgraded; and (iii) product quality be improved. During the past three years,
the Government demonstrated its willingness to decontrol the cement industry by
instituting substantial changes in the cement pricing mechanism and in tariffs
applicable to machinery for manufacturing cement. The Government has agreed
to further decontrol cement prices and production.
48.     The rationale  for Bank involvement in the cement subsector is twofold:
it would assist the Government in bringing about further progress in pricing
policy and tariff reforms to promote efficiency in the subsector. It would
enable it to realize its long-Term growth potential in the cement industry by
introducing modern, energy-efficient manufacturing technology. Bank involve-
ment in this project now would confirm that, where the environment is conducive
to efficient and competitive operations, the Bank could actively support the
Government in its efforts to modernize and expand capacity. The focus of the
proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the industry
sector, which supports the goal, inter alia, of productive investments in
critical industries, and other measures to enhance efficiency and facilitate
industrial growth. The focus of the proposed project is consistent with the
Bank's strategy for the industry sector, which supports the goal, inter alia,
of productive investments in critical industries, and other measures to enhance
efficiency and facilitate industrial growth.



-15-
49.     The project would finance (i) conversion of six private sector cement
plants (Associated Cement Companies' Madukkarai and Shaiabad plants, Birla Jute
and Industries Ltd. Satna plant, India Cements Ltd. Sanlcarnagar Plant, KCP's
Macherla Plant and Sri Digvijay Cement Company Sikka Plant), and one public
sector plant (Cement Corporation of India Mandhar Plant) from the inefficient
wet process technology, to a modern dry process precalciner technology;
(ii) small scale rehabilitation and modernization investments of other cement
plants; (iii) improvement of marketing and distribution systems; (iv) training
and curricular development; and (v) technical assistance.
DETAILED FEATURES
Plant Conversion
50.     ACC - Madukkarai Plant.  The subproject would consist of converting
the Nadukkarai plant located in Coimbatore district in Tamil Nadu from a wet
to semi-dry process. Under the project, funds would be provided for the
installation of two additional flotation cells for the limestone benification
plant, a new vacuum filter plant and a crusherldryer for dewatering of the
kilnfeed, a new dry process kiln department (3-stage, preheater, with a rated
capacity of 520,000 TmY), and a 6-MW diesel generator for captive power
generation.
51.     ACC - Shahabad Plant.  The project would provide funds for converting
the Shahabad plant located in Gulbarga district of Karnataka State from the wet
to the dry process. One preheater, precalciner kiln would replace the old
kilnas, and the proposed plant would have a clinker capacity of 2,400 TPD
(corresponding to 830,000 TPY of cement). The new kiln would operate at a coal
consumption of 850 Kcal/Kg clincker, and power consumption of 120 IWh/ton of
cement. The equipment to be procured would include a limestone crusher, an
aerial ropeway for transporting crushed limestone, preblending facilities for
limestone, new dry process rawmill and kiln departments with dust collection
equipment, preblending facilities for coal, and a rotary cement-packing
machine. In addition, the existing 10-MW coal-fired power plant would be
either rehabilitated or replaced.
52.     Birla Satna Plant.  Under the project, Birla's plant located at Satna,
in Madhya Pradesh, would be converted from the wet to the dry process. Three
existing wet process kilns with a combined capacity of 1,750 TPD would be
replaced by a single preheater precalciner kiln with a rated capacity of 2,250
TPD; thus the Satna plant's rated capacity would increase from 581,000 TPY to
750,000 TPY, or by about 292. The major equipment to be procured would include
quarry equipment, dry-process rawmill, kiln department with dust collection
and cement packaging machines, and a coalmill for kiln precalciner with
associated coal feeders and dust collection equipment.
53.     CCI - Mandhar Plant.  The subproject would consist of converting the
Mandhar plant located in Raipur district, Madhya Pradesh, from a wet to a dry
operation. The converted plant would have a rated clinker capacity of 1,200
TPD and would produce 700,000 TPY of cement. It would operate at a fuel
efficiency of 850 Kcal/Kg clinker, which would correspond to coal consumption
of 0.20 ton of coal per ton clinker. Power consumption would be 107 KWh/ton of
cement. The equipment to be procured under the project would include quarry
equipment, limestone preblending facilities, new dry process ravmill and kiln



-16-
departments with dust collection equipment, cement storage silos, and a rotary
cement packing machine. The existing rawmills would be converted to cement
mills.
54.     ICL - Sankarnasar Plant.  The project would provide funds for convert-
ing the Sankarnagar plant located in Tirunelveli district, Tamil Nadu, from a
wet to a dry operation. The converted plant would have a clinker capacity of
3,000 TPD, which would correspond to 1,042,000 TPY of cement. It would require
850/Kcal/Kg clinker of coal, or 0.2 tons of coal per ton of clinker, and power
consumption of 116/KWH/ton of cement. The equipment to be procured for the
subproject would include a limestone crusher, a limestene preblending system, a
new dry process raw mill, and a kiln system with elecrrostatic precipitator for
gas cleaning, clinkers storage silo, a rwt-=y ce=at packing machine, and a
4-MW diesel-power generating plant.
55.     KCP - Macherla Plant.  Under the project, the Macherla plant, which is
located in Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh, would be modernized by replacing
two present kilns with a new precalciner preheater kiln, and converting one
rawaill to a cement mill. The modernized plant would have a kiln with a
capacity of 1,200 TPD of clinker, which would correspond to 370,000 TPY of
cement. It would need 800 Kcal/Kg clincker of coal with a power consumption of
120 KWE/ton of cement. The equipment to be procured would include quarry
equipment, new dry-process ravmill and kiln departments, and two rotary cement-
packing machines.
56.     SDC - Sikka Plant.  The project would finance the company's second
phase conversion of the Sikka Plant, located in Jamnagar district, Gujarat.
The converted plant would have a clinker capacity of 1,770 TPD, an increase of
38% from its existing capacity of 1,285 TPD. The existing wet process kiln
would be replaced by a dry kiln. Equipment to be procured under the project
would include quarry equipment, limestone crushing plant, aerial ropeway, belt
conveyor, limestone preblending system, a new dry process saw mill, a kiln
system with electrostatic precipitator for gas cleaning , clinker storage silo,
cement silo and rotary packing machine, a ceal mill for kiln precalciner and
associated coal feeders and dust collection equipment.
Inputs. Infrastructure and Environmental Impact
57.     The Bank has fully appraised six of the seven conversion subprojects
and found Lhlere are adequate suitable raw materials and all the required inputs
for them. The seventh subproject (SDC-Sikka Plant) will be appraised by ICICI
and IDBI with Bank participation on the basis of the criteria employed in
respect of the other six subprojects. The companies have been assured of
obtaining the incremental power needed. In addition, nearly all of the sub-
projects provide for the installation of captive power generation plants where
needed to guarantee continued operation during power outages. Attention would
be given to environmental concerns and in this regard, all subprojects are
expected to purchase and install pollution control equipment and to meet all
existing pollution standards, which are acceptable to the Bank. In addition,
the project would finance development of distribution facilities, transport
equipment for bulk cement handling, modern instrumentation and control systems.



-17-
Small-Scale Modernization and Rehabilitation at Other Cement Plants
58.     The project would provide funds for a line of credit of US$35 million
to ICICI to finance the estimated foreign exchange requirements for small-scale
modernization, rehabilitation, energy conservation, environmental control, and
balancing schemes at existing plants other than the seven conversion sub-
projects described above and for development of improved marketing and
distribution system. This would cover the acquisition of software for process
control, installation of modern instrumentation and control systems, energy
saving devices, dust collection equipment, balancing equipment, distribution
facilities, transport equipment for bulk cement handling and technical assis-
tance to improve operations and management. This credit would help companies
acquire advanced technology and know-how with respect to modern operations and
thereby enable them to improve productivity, fuel efficiency, and environmental
control in their plants. ICICI would identify and appraise the subprojects,
and the appraisals vould be submitted to the Bank for review and approval. The
average subproject size would be about US$10-15 million equivalent, and the
average subloan would be about US$5-8 million. ICICI would submit to the Bank
for review appraisal reports for all subprojects whose funding from the
proceeds of the loan exceed US$6 million equivalent, before it agrees to fund
such subprojects. The total financing required for the program over a 2-3 year
period is estimated at about US$89 million, and the proposed line of credit
would cover about 40Z of the total financing required.
Training and Technical Asssistance
59.     With the rapid expansion and technological changes that are occurring
in the cement industry in India, the existing shortage of skilled plant
operators has become even more acute. Therefore, under the project, funds
would be provided for training and technical assistance. In particular, ACC
and CCI would be assisted in: (1) improving and upgrading their training
facilities (this would include purchasing modern training equipment and related
software); (ii) constructing new dormitory facilities; (iii) designing training
programs; and (iv) training trainers. About 6 man-years of technical assis-
tance would be provided for this purpose. In addition, the project would
finance management assistance and training needs for the six companies under-
taking conversion subprojects. The management assistance would consist of
reviewing technical specifications, evaluating bids, supervising detailed
engineering design, and overall project management. About 150 man-months of
total consultant assistance would be provided. ICICI and IDBI would ensure
that the companies would employ consultants on the basis of a work program
satisfactory to the Bank; consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank
guidelines and their terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Bank. Terms of reference for the consultants have been agreed with the
Bank and selection of consultants is at an advanced stage.
60.     At the subsector level, under the sponsorship of the Cement
Manufacturers' Association (CMA), consultants would assist in preparing a
manpower development strategy for the cement industry covering manpower needs,
training requirements, and a plan for medium- and long-term manpower
development. The consultants would propose the actions needed at each
individual company and industry-wide in order to upgrade existing skillls to
respond to changing technology. The actions would include, inter alia, train-
ing new personnel at pre-entry and post-entry stages, developing suitable



-18-
curricula and upgrading training facilities in existing academic institutions
and new training centers to be established by the industry. The strategy study
would be completed by December 31, 1986. Terms of reference have been agreed
and consultant selection is underway. The existing regional technical training
institutions in India would also be assisted in developing curricula specifi-
cally related to the industry's urgent manpower needs, particularly with
respect to maintenance personnel, plant operators, and first-level supervisors.
A total of 50 man-months of expert assistance would be provided for this
reason. In addition, some training equipment and teaching aids would be
provided. The equipment lists would be subject to prior Bank review and
approval.
ManaRemrent and Implementation
61.     Both ICICI and IDBI are well managed institutions, capable of
implementing the project as assigned. The participating companies have
employed consultants to help formulate the project, evaluate bids, prepare
construction drawings, and manage construction. The consultants and most of
the cement companies have up-to-date knowledge and experience in cement plant
design and construction. All the companies have increased their staff of
engineers and skilled personnel in order to facilitate project start-up and
ensure smooth implementation. Personnel selected to operate the new machinery
will be trained mostly in India but also overseas.
62.     All the companies have historically been strong financial performers,
have had sound capital structures and the project is expected to enhance even
further both their competitiveness and profitability. Except for CCI (a
Government company), all the companies are actively traded in the stock market,
and are considered very attractive for both institutional and individual
investors. Even CCI has been able to raise funds in the financial markets
through public debenture issues, which have been oversubscribed.
Proiect Costs and FinancinR
63.     The total project cost is estimated at US$469.8 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties estimated at US$55 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$211.1 million, or 45% of the total
project cost. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of base costs for
civil works and certain categories of equipment. However, only a 5% contin-
gency has been applied for most equipment and machinery. Price escalation
amounts to an average of 14.3% on the base costs plus physical contingencies,
and reflects the wide mix of project implementation schedules. Bank guidelines
for international and domestic price escalation have been followed. Expected
inflation rates for foreign goods and services are 7% in 1986 and 1987, 72 in
1988, 7.5% in 1990 and 4.5% in 1991 and 1992; for local goods and services the
rates are 7% in 1986, 7.5% in 1987-90 and 5% in 1991 and 1992.
64.     The Bank loans of US$200 million would cover about 43% of the total
project cost, net of taxes and duties. GOI, ICICI, IDBI, and the project
sponsors would contribute the balance of the required project financing.



-19-
Onlendina Terms
65.     Bank assistance would cover three specific components for which terms
would differ: (i) conversion subprojects; (ii) mall-scale modernization and
rehabilitation; (iii) technical assistance and training. Of the proposed Bank
loan of US$165 million equivalent to GOI, US$163.5 million equivalent vould be
onlent to ICICI and IDBI in equal proportions for financing major conversions
in seven plants, as well as company specific technical assistance and training.
ICICI and IDBI would conclude subloan agreements that would include provisions
for: ti) adequate cost overrun financing; (ii) maintenance of financial posi-
tion and capital adequacy ratios; and (iii) limitations on assumption of new
debt. Repayment from ICICI and IDBI to GOI would be over 20 years including a
grace period not exceeding five years. Standard GOI rates of interest for
loans to financial institutions (currently 10.25Z per annum) would apply.
Loans from the institutions to subborrovers would be on prevailing rates of
rupee loans (currently at 14Z). GOI would assume the exchange risk. Signing
of subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI and ICICI and IDBI for the use of
funds earmarked for conversion subprojects, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the Bank Loan to GOI. GOI would pass on to ICICI US$1.5 million as a
nonreimbursable grant to finance training and technical assistance at the
subsector level. Signing of a Grant Agreement between GOI and ICICI for the
use of funds earmarked for training and technical assistance, would also be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan. To ensure the maintenance of a
sound financial position, the companies would maintain a current ratio of not
less than 1.2 times and a debt/equity ratio not greater than 67:33. In
addition, the companies would not incur additional debt, if to do so would
cause their debt/equity to exceed 67:33 or its projected debt service coverage
to fall below 1.5 times.
66.     The proceeds of the direct Bank loan (US$35 million) to ICICI would be
relent to subborrovers on standard ICICI credit terms varying from 7 to 10
years for repayment with up to 2 years of grace. The interest rate would be
the variable IBRD rate plus 2Z per annum. The subborrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.    Annex IV summarizes the manner in which items would be procured under
the project. The Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
would be used for all goods financed by the Loan to GOI; prequalification would
be used for major equipment packages. A preference margin of 15Z, or the
applicable rate of customs duties if lower, would be allowed to domestic equip-
ment suppliers in evaluation of bids received under ICB. Under the major
conversion component, the Bank has already identified and agreed with each
subproject sponsor, the bidding packages for items to be procured under ICB
procedures and most sponsors have completed the prequalification procedures.
To ensure compatibility with existing facilities, a small amount (less than
US$3 million) of equipment would be procured on the basis of international
shopping. This equipment would consist of diesel generating sets for the ACC
plants, and other miscellaneous items. Most major packages would include
supervision of erection/installation to ensure satisfactory performance, and in
some cases may include a limited "turnkey" bid covering erection/installation
and engineering. Civil works would not be included in any of the proposed
equipment supply/erection packages. The agreement with the five sponsors of



-20-
the conversion subprojects, for which appraisals have been completed, covers a
total of 54 packages at a combined base cost of US$106 million equivalent; of
these, 4 packages at a total base cost of US$43.4 million (or 41Z of all ICB
packages) each exceed US$5 million equivalent in base costs, and another 14
packages at a combined total base cost of US$31.2 million equivalent (or 29% of
the total) each exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. The remaining pa Gages
average a base cost of US$1 million equivalent and may be bid sing.y ur may be
grouped at the bidder's preference. The packages are sufficiently attractive
to stimulate interest among foreign bidders. The bidding packages for Sikka
plant to be appraised later, are expected to follow a similar pattern.
Consultant services would be procured following IBRD guidelines. Local bidding
procedures used in other line-of-credit operations with ICICI are satisfactory
to the Bank, and would be followed for the small-scale modernizations and
rehabilitation component under the direct loan to ICICI; only the direct for-
eign exchange content of equipment purchases for this component would be
financed by the Bank loan. A very small amount of retroactive financing
(US$1.5 million), amounting to about 1% of the proposed loan, would be provided
under the loan to GOI to enable the companies to engage foreign consultants in
time to assist with the preparation and review of technical bids, and would
cover expenditures incurred after July 1, 1985.
68.     The proceeds of the loans would be disbursed as follows:  (a) lOOZ of
foreign expenditures and 100Z of local ex-factory cost of agreed ICB packages
for major conversion activities and training and technical assistance at sub-
sector level; (b) 100% of foreign expenditure of small-scale rehabilitation and
modernization; (c) 100% of foreign and 60% of local expenditure for plant-level
technical assistance; and (d) 1002 of total expenditures for plant-level
training. Documentation in support of payment claims relative to contracts
below US$1.5 million in the case of Part A and US$800,000 in the case of Part B
of the project would not be required, as these would be covered by statements
of expenditure. The disbursement schedule has been based on the standard
profiles for the Region and in the industry. Signing of acceptable subloan
Agreements by ICICI and IDBI with each of the companies sponsoring the conver-
sion subprojects would be a condition of disbursements.
Accounts and Audit
69.     The sponsoring companies would submit on a timely basis, audit reports,
periodic progress reports and financial information concerning the project.
ICICI and IDBI would also provide annual audit reports, project progress
reports and financial information. After project completion, each company and
financial institution would prepare and furnish to the Bank a project comple-
tion report within six months of the project closing date.
Benefits Justification and Risks
70.     The project's main benefit would be increased production of cement at a
much reduced fuel consumption level. At full production, the incremental
output of the project is expected to be about 1.8 million tons or 3.1% of
projected total domestic demand. The project would therefore help to reduce
the shortage of a key commodity, which in the past has been a critical con-
straint to the development of India's economy. Fuel consumption would decrease
by an average of about 42% for the seven subconversion projects. Furthermore,
the project is expected to generate substantial additional employment iu the
domestic equipment manufacturing industry, the cement manufacturing industry,



-21-
and the construction industry. Finally, the project would have a positive
environmental impact because all the converted and modernized cement plants
would be provided with efficient dust collection equipment which would meet the
national environmental standards.
71.     The overall economic rate of return is estimated at about 25%.  The
individual rates of return for the subprojects range from 21% for Madukkarai
(ACC) to 511 for Macherla (KCP). The results of the sensitivity analysis
carried out with regard to key assumptions including a decrease in border
pricing, capital cost increases and delays in project implementation; indicate
that only very large and highly unlikely deviations would make the project
economically unviable.
72.     The project faces no major risks.  However, inadequate implementation
capability could delay project implementation. The risk has been minimized
because all the companies involved have already assembled competent staff and
have retained qualified and experienced consultant engineers to assist in most
phases of project implementation. Moreover, she construction would take place
at the existing plants with infrastructure already in place. In the past the
lack of continuous and adequate power prevented companies from attaining the
rated output. This risk has now been largely overcome by the installed captive
pover-generating capacity. A shortage of coal and transport facilities remains
a potential risk. However, projects designed to improve railway capability,
and hence coal haulage, are under execution. In addition, the fuel savings
resulting from wet to dry conversion would also reduce the demand for coal and
enable the companies to perform better with the present level of coal.
Finally, should price decontrol measures be implemented more slolwy than has
been assumed, the companies internal cash generation could be reduced.
However, these companies are in a strong financial position. Furthermore, the
future retention price expected after full decontrol is only about 18% higher
than the average price under the existing controls. Moreover, the bulk of the
incremental benefits are expected to emanate from more efficient fuel use. The
risk regarding price decontrol is therefore minimal.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loans.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
February 14, 1986



ANNEX 1
T     A a  A L S  3                          Page 1  of  6
lNDIA                 - SOCIAL XICICATIJAN DATA 511tH
INDIA                               WBIEM  GROUPS CWIWCHED AVCkACZS) is
1ST                     (lUST RECENT SsTSIATE) /b
MCKEE?            LOW INCSt            MIDDLE INC
196i,o     19701k KSTUIArl          ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
ARE CTUOSUS EQ. *)
TOTAL                            3287.6      3267.6     3287.6
ACRICILTTRAL                     1763.5     1780.5      1111.4
OUR PER WET (t                         ..         ..        260.0             278.3                   1011.1
u1_r musasnaw       Cen
(CSILOQA  aF OIL EQUIVALENTJ       79.0      113.0       156.0             285.7                   5b6.8
nwwana   A  vna sTnSI
POPULATIOU.rO-YEAR CTIODUSA ) 434849.0   547569.0   733248.0
URM  POPULATION tS OF TOTAL)       18.0       19.6       24Z4               22.3                    35.9
POPUILATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                         9Y4.4
STATIONAY POPULATION C1IL1)                           1700.0
POPULATION IfHENhUM                                      1.8
POPULATION DEoSn
PER Sq. IDI.                    132.3       166.6      223.0             173.8                    386.9
PER SO. E1. ACIT. LAND          246.6      307.5       395.8             353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION ACE STRiCTURE (CZ
0-14 YRS                        40.8       42.7        39.5              38.3                     3S.2
15-64 IRS                        54.4       54.1        56.5              59.4                    57.7
65 SD AIOVE                       4.6        3.0         3.9               4.3                      3.5
POPULATION CRO11 RATE (S)
TOTAL                             1.8        2.3         2.2               2.0                      2.3
URbN                              2.5        3.3         3.9               4.1                     4.1
CIOE UIRTN RATE (PER THOUS)        47.7       41.5        33.9              27.5                    30.1
CRUDE OEATH RATE (PER TouS)        23.9       17.9        12.5              10.2                     9.4
CROSS REPRODOCTION RATE             2.9        2.8         2.3               1.7                     I.Y
FAKrLY PUNNLINC
ACCFPTORS. ANtNUAL (THOUS)       64.0      3782.0     6828.0 IC
USERS (S OF MARED   E)            *         11.7        32.0              49.4                    56.5
Pl a  sA znlOi
INDER OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      98.0      102.0       113.0             116.6                   124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF RSQUIIMlWTS)      98.0       91.0        92.0             106.3                    115,7
PROEINS (CGRAIS PER DAY)         56.0       50.0       50.0              60.1                     60.3
oF Wtic  AIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        15.0       13.0 Id           14.4                    14.1
NILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         26.3       19.7        11.0               7.3                     7.2
RIMLTS
LIFE ErPEL.- AT DIRTS C(ARs)       42.2       47.3        54.9              60.5                    6U.6
INFANT  OR. RATE (PER THOUS)      165.0      139.0       93.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE UATR (SPoP)
TOTAL                             .          17.0       41.0 Ic           44.2                     46.0
URAN                              ..        60.0        77.0 7W           77.2                    57.6
RDRAL                             *-         6.0        31.0 /c           34.6                    37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATIOS)
TOTAL                             *-         18.0        6.0 Ic            7.8                    504.1
URNS                              ..         5.0        27.o 7-           28.8                    52.9
RURAL                             ..         1.0         1.0 7T            5.5                    44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4850.0     4890.0      3690.0 le         3318.0                  7751.7
POP. PER NUING PERSON           10980.0 If  7420.0      5460.0 7e         4690.7                  2464.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BLD
TOTAL                          2180.0      1650.0     1290.0 /c         IU39.2                   1112.1
URAN                              ..         ..        370.0 7           299.1                   651.4
RURAL                             ..         ..      10410.0 1i         6028.2                  259.9
AD!IISSIOIS PER HOSPITAL SEW        ..         ..          ..              52.3                     41.1
lBOIS7M
AVERArE SIZE oF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2        5.6
URBAN                             5.2        5.6
RURAL                             5.2        5.6
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSDNS/ROOhI
TOTAL                             2.6        2.8
URANS                             2.6        2.6
RURAL                             2.6        2.6
PERCENTAGE OF DUELLINS WIH "LCT.
TOTAL                             ..
URBA                              ...
RURAL                             ..



ANNE 1
T A B L E 3A                                   Page  2  of  6
INDIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                REFRENCE  RUPS (WEIGII   AVERACS T) /a
hOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
R llglENT          LOW 1m100             MDLE INCOME
1969b      197n/b EST, TE_           ASIA & PACIFIC        AStA & PACIFIC
MuCATI-
ADJUSTD  roLLME  RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   61.0        73.0        79.0 /c           92.6                     100.7
MALE                   80.0        90.0        93.0 7;7          105.5                    104.4
FEMALE                 40.0        56.0        64.0 Weh          79.3                      97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  20.0        26.0        30.0 Ic           31.3                     47.8
KALE                   30.0        36.0        39.0o7W           40.8                      50.6
FEKALE                 10.0        15.0        20.0 7-'          21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECDNIA)            2.8         1.0        ..                 3.2                      18.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRMRT                             46.0        41.0        54.0 /c           38.0                      30.4
SECONDY                           16.0        21.0        ..                17.4                     22.2
PASSENEIR CARS/THDUSAWD POP          0.6         1.1         1.4 /h            0.1                      10.1
RADIO RCEZVERS/THOUSAND POP          4.9        21.5        55.8             129.8                     172.9
TV RECZIVERS/T1USAND POP             0.0         0.0         2.9              19.8                      58.5
NEWSPAPEL ( 'DAT GENCEtAL
INTEREST") CIRlATON
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            10.6        16.2        19.4 /h           25.7                     65.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      3.2         6.2        6.6                6.0                       3.4
TOrAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUS)       185951.0   Z19194.0   284251.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  30.7        32.5       31.4               33.2                     33.6
aGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0        71.0 /c           69.6                      52.2
XNDUSTRY (PECENT)                 11.0        11.0        13.2 7T'          15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATTON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             42.8        40.0        38.3              41.9                      38.9
MALE                              57.0        52.4        51.7              53.6                      50.8
FEMALE                            27.3        26.9        25.3              29.1                      26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCT RATIO            1.1         1.1         1.1               1.0                       1.1
INCONE DISTIUTIU
PERCEN  OP PRIVATE INCOME
RCIVED BI
HICNeST 51 OF BW1SEHOLDS          26.7        26.3 /       .
HIGST 20Z OF IOUSE8OLDS           51.7        48.9 7       ..                ..                       48.0
LOST 201 OF HUSEHOLDS              4.1         6.7 7i                        '                        6.4
LOWST 405 OF 8WSE3OLDS            13.6        17.2 7i      ..                ..                       15.5
POPERr T1     GROWS
ESTIATlED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVm (sS PER CAPITA)
URBN                               ..          ..        132.0 /h          133.9
RURAL                              ' '                   114.0 7r          111.6                     151.9
ESTIIMAED REATIE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..                ..                      177.9
RUL                                ..          ..          ..               61.7                     164.7
ESTIDM    POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTI DCAM LEZVEL (;)
URBAN                              ..          ..         40.3 /h           43.8                      23.5
RULAL                              .,          ..         50.7 Th-          51.7                      37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OTES
/a  The group averae. for each indicator are population-weghted aritmetic _man. Coverage of countries
amog the indieatorn deends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otbarvire noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 197'; and data for "Kost Recent Ratimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1977; /a 1978; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h 1979; /i 1964-65.
JUN, 1985



ANNEX 1
~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                      P~~~~~~~~~kage  3 of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note Although thedatima drawn from souns generlly judged the most muthoritativeand reliable it should alwo be noted that they may nol beainrnatuonally
comparable because of the lack of standerdized dfiniions and concepts used by different coun tnc in ollcting the dst. Th data are nonetheless. ucfiul to
describe orders ofmagnitude. indicatc trends, and characterize cenain major diffnences betwecn countrics.
The rcference groups are (1) the same country group of ihe subject country and 12) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the counlry
groupofthe subjectcountry (exccpt for -High Income Oil Esportcrs group wher-Me iide Income Nortb Afrnc and Middle Eas-i isLhoseo becauscofstronger
soio-culturml affinities). In the refcrence group data the averags are population weighted arithmetic mcans for ecah indicator and shown only when majority
ofthe countries in agroup has data for that indicator Since the coverage of countries among the indicatorsdepends on the availabilitv of data and is not uniform.
caution must he exercised kn relatingaverageofone indicator to another. These averges are only useful in comparing the valueofone indicator at a timcamong
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Cnde Birth Rate (per rhaand)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Death Rate (per thousandJ-Numlber of deaths in the year
Agricutur-l-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodeaetion Rate-Average n umber of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages cnding
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Fomily Planinzq-Acceptors. Ausal (thowsnds.  Annual num-
Bank Atlas (I1981-83 basis). 1983 data                             ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Fandly Pla,ing-Users (percent ofmarried won:nJ - The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal celc-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                                     groups.
Total Popaion, Mid- Year (thousads)---As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOODAND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.                                                     FO     N     URrO
index ofFoodPrioction PerCapita (1969-71= 100j- Index of per
.6 Popdat.vpercewoftotal -    Ratioorurbantoto capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and see for agriculture. Food COMModities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populatio  Projectis                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popdulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetabies. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
wre  projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply ofCaloris (percent of requrentenrs -Cornput-
Stationarr population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, whik age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levei  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected cha:racteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rmie of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwnm-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita Sapply of Protein (ram  per dayJ----Protcin content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiv of food is dcfined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established hv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment lcvcl from year t onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Density                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkn.--Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply From Anrimal and Pulse- Protein suppl)
Per sqkm. agracultural land- Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived trom animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Popnltim Age Structure (percent)-Children (0-14 vears). work-      Child qa'er1 1-4 Death Rate (perthousand) - -Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and overl as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 19$3 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Fopulation Growth Rate (prcent)--oral-- Annual growth rates o f    from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Popuwaion Growth Rate (percent)-urban -Annual growth rates         Life Erpectancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newhorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would livc if prevailing patterns of mortalitv for ail people



ANNEX 1
Page4of6
at the time of of its birth wer to Kay the same throughout its life;  Pup -teacher Ratfo - primary, ad secondarp-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primury and secondary klve  divided by numbes of
hbaw Mortmky Rate (per thosand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels
befor reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
yeasr, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Acces to Sefa Water (pereet of peabrim)-toiaJ  ain, and 1      Paser Cars (per thoxsd popularlou)-Passenger cars comn-
nral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating ls than deight persos; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply micludes teated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehis.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rado Recevers (per thrl d populatlen)-All types of receier
borehoks, spnnps and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populatons. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 metesP from a house may be considered  rgistration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable aces of that house. In ru   areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
masonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  TV Reci   (pp             o      receivers for broadcast
houelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  to genera p pe th  op ulTi   ecludes fnlcenedTV
in fetching the fBnl'  ae  ed                                  to gcnsaa public per thousand population: cxchudes unicanw etIV
in fetching the family's water ui~*receivers in countries and in years when rgsration of TV sets was
Access to Ereta Disposl (percent of popalation)-teora, mrban,   i     inegnect.
nd rral-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by   in e
excreta disposal as percentages or their respective populations.  Aewsipper Circua ,i (per thousand populaion)-Shows tie aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of daily geral interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human cxcreta and waste-water by water-  penodl publcation devoted primarily to recording geeral news.
bome systems or the use of pit privies abd similar instaUations.  It is considered to be daily' if it appears at kast four times a week
Poplaion per Physidan-Population divided by number of prac-    Cinea Annual Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popiuadno per Nursing Person-Population divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurse  assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popukadon per  osptal Bf-4ot;4 'b. -d rura tulavio            Total Labor Fore (thosand1s)-Economically active persons. in-
total. urban. and rural) divided ty ther  respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
(total,urban,and rurl)    ~   rsPectiv  num    0 students. etc., covering population of all ages. Defintions in
hospital beds available in public and private. general and spedalized
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960.1970 and 19S3 data.
prmanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femalpercenr)-Ferale labor force as percntage of total labor
iding principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however include bealdh and medical centers not permanendy staffed  Ariuk-e (percen)--Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accominodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities,                                        indusy (percenr)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P Drtia     Rate (percenu)-eoal,nak, andfeae-Particpation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates ame computed as total, male. and female labor force
Avera   ie of Househod (persos per household i-tot. Arbon.    as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andraral-Ahouseholdconsistsofagroupofindividualswhoshare      respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOWs
living quarters and their mnain meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs.
Averae VNub  of P-erss per Roonroeda, urb n,   nd -           Ecron c Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 1564).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Prcetage of Dweln  with Elcnricity-4otl, ubab, ad rural-      Percnae of Tota D iosab  lncome (boh in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartes as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings rcspectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enrolhne  Ratios                                     The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pfrirr school - total. mal and fenale-Gross total. male and   levekl and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aD ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estmated Absolte Poverty Income Leel ([USSper captra)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rurab-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countrics with universal  Esimated Relative Poery hicome Lee (US per cpita)-wrhan
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondon  school - total, ma  and femal-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmaed Popuaion Bdeow Absoute Pet   Income Level (per-
mary instruction provides Seneral, vocational. or teacher training  cent )-rban and rral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.'
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Enrollbeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technimaL industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



ANNEX I
Pags 5 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPKlEUr DATA
CNP PElt CAPITA IN iN934-5260 s/
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84 bh                                            ANNUAL RArE OF GROWrH (2. Constant Prices) SI
55/56-59/60  60/61-64163  65166-69/70  70/71-74/75  75/76-79/80  80181-82/83
US$ Bln.     2
GE" at Market Prices               189.81     100.0                    3.7          3.6          3.7         2.9          4.1          5.1
Gross Domstic Investment            45.94      24.0
Gross National Saving               43.17      22.7
Current Accoumt Balance             -2.17      -1.5
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVIT IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)        Labor Force i/   '.A. Per Worker
US$ Bin.                2           Nil.       2      U05    2 of National Average
Agriculture                         52.5                  35.9         172.7    70.6    304          51
Industry                            34.5                  23.6         31.6    12.9   1092          183
Services                            59.2                  40.5         40.3    16.5   1469          246
Total/Average                      146.2                 10O0.         246.6   100.0    598         10W
GOVERkMENT FINANCE
Ceneral Government e/                               Centrtl Gov.resent
Rs. Bln.            2 of GDP                    Rs. Br.            2 of GDP
1983/86      1983/864  1979/80-1983184          1983/84     1983/64     1979/80-1982Z84
Current Receipts                   378.54         19.3            19.5             201.67        10.3            10.3
Current Expenditunes               397.12         20.3           19.4              225.42        11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           -18.58          -1.0            0.1              -23.75        -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures fl            149.66          7.7            8.0              114.12         5.8             5.8
External Assistance (net) d/        19.16          1.0            1.1
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975176  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982,83  1983/84  January 1984  Januarv 1985
(Ma Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              109.8     224.8    401.1    472.3   557.7   627.5    728.7   860.9          835.1         993.9
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6      106.3    159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3    353.8   407.7           403.1         483.9
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6      156.2    255.3    310.1    366.4   434.6    517.1   612.7         575.5         685.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                        April-Jan 83/84    April-Jan 84185
Money nd quasi Money as a Z
of GDP                            27.3      30.3     41.1     44.1      63.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                 100.0      173.0    185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2            313.6            336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7      -1.1      -        17.1     18.2      9.4      2.6      9.2        9.2               7.4
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0       22.7     16.0     25.6      28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3          16.9 -j          23.2 h/
Bank Credit t  Commercial Sector   19.4       22.7     20.3     21.5      18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7          13.8 g/          15.6 h/
*/ The per capita GIP estim-te is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1981-B3.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
hi quick Estlimtes. Central Statistical Organization.
I Computed from trend line of CNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first vear and one. obserwation after
last year of lihted period.
d/ World Bank estimtes of net disbursement of concessional aid and IBRW.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage change from end-March 1983 to end-Jnan.4.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1984 to end-Jan.85.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census. Excludes dara for Assem.



ANNEX T
PageTot 6
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS                    1981/82    1982/83     1983/84     1984/85        HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE 1980181-1983/84) if
(USs "In.)                                                                                                               USS Mn. 2
Exports of Goods .f                      8.519      8,290       8,355       8,724        Engineering Goods               1115       13
Imports of Goods .f                    -15,301    -14.290     -14,040     -14.501        Tea                              469       6
Trade Balance                          - 6,782    - 6,000     - 5.685      - 5.777       Gums                            1009       12
NFS Cstt)                                1,002        935         948        1.098       Clothgng                         688        8
Leather and Leather Products    343        4
Resource Balance                       - 5,780    - 5.065     - 4.737     - 4,678        lute Manufactures                269        3
Iron Ore                         400       5
Xnterest Income (net) k/                   350    -   302     -   664     -   785       CotLun Textiles                   316       4
Net Transfers 1/                         2,317      2,504       2,880       2,930        Sugar                             104       1
Others                          3704      44
Balance on Current Account             - 3.113    - 2.863     - 2.521     - 2,533
Direct investment                           10         65          62           61
Total                           8417     100
Offical Loans & Grants (net)            1681       1.901       1,961        1,944
Gross Disbursements                      2,269      2,513       2,578       2,585        SITERNAL OEBT, MARCH 31, 1984
Amortization                               588        612         617          641
US$ billion
Private Borrowlng (net)                    338        366         528         844
Outstanding and Disbursed                 21.5
Non-Resident Deposits                      260        578         903          600       Undibursed                                10.4
Tranoaction with IMF (net)                 690      1,980       1.295           70       Outstanding including Undisbursed          31.9
All other Items of                     - 2,264    - 1,522     - 1,347        - 683
Increase in Reserves C-)                 2,398    -   501     -   882        - 303       DEBT SERVICE RtATI1 FOR 1983/84 j/ n/     13.6 per cent
Gross Reserves (end year) p/            46461       4.965       5,847        6,150
Net Reserves (end year) mf               3,497      2,089       1,697        2,250
xBRD/rDA LENDImG. MARCH 31, 1985 1/
Fuel and Related Materials
rs s million
Imports (Petroleum) S'                   5.553      4,614       2.983        3.026                                            IBRD      IDA
of which: Crude                        3.921      3.139       2.183        1,015
Products                     1,632      1.475         800       2,010       ('ustanding and Disbursed             2,158    8.902
Undi*bursed                          4.326    3,748
Outstanding including Undisbursed    6,484   12,650
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to odd-December 1971         US$1.00 - Re 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:   USS1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US50.137376
After end-June 1972                    Floating Race
Spot Rate and-March 1984               U 551.00 - Ps 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - USSO.0933
Spot Race end-March 1985               USS1.00 - Rs 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - USSO.0810
J Estimated
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF,
and mjor receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans
and grants, and non-resident deposits which are shown separately.
m/  Exclude net use of LMF credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
of  Includes exchbage rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
uu   xcludin% gold.
S' Net of petioleuss exports



Page 1 of 5
TRE STATUS OF        ROU=P MPRAISIN INDI
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CEDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Us$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellatios)
Credit   Year of
fo..    Aa,rovel                                       IJADL  11J               2W&burmee I/
55 Loans/                                             2,528.9         -              -
102 Credits fully disbursed                               -       5,938.9            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -          29.2           0.05
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -             9.04
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0           7.77
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0           5.28
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             1.58
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          22.14
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           3.83
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          20.71
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          12.70
806-IN    1978     Jaumu-Kashmir Horticulture            -          14.0           8.01
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -          16.0           0.68
1592-IN    1978     Telecomunications VII               120.0         -             7.23
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          14.25
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         102.39
844-IN    1979     Railvay Ncdernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0           5.88
88-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           3.24
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -          27.0           9.88
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            41.09
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          15.34
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0          3.25
954-IN    1980     ?aharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          11.83
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Conmunity Forestry           -           37.0          0.16
963-IN    1980     Ialand Fisheries                     -           20.0          12.79
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          19.59
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          14.86
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          71.99
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          13.60
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         112.45
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           5.76
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          14.74



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank        IDA jj      Undisbursed 3
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                            54.0          21.40
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          38.84
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                    99.0         -             3.42
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0          68.79
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            17.09
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0           7.90
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          35.75
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          18.64
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          70.15
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -         31A.0          68.36
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          31.84
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -         399.1          60.93
1135-IN    1981      Mabarasbtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           7.57
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          13.37
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          24.26
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          61.24
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         242.57
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         139.15
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             2.40
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          18.86
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          12.75
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -            21-60
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           256.89
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.05
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            71.57
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           215.94
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          25.10
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          59.07
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kasbmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          22.30
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          16.30
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         101.90
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           114.48
1299-fI   1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0         168.63
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0          96.85
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II              -         101.0          84.51



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      AnRroval        Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1356_IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -         170.0         149.50
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -         147.0         134.50
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Nanagement       46.2         -            45.31
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          23.27
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -            22.64
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1         -            23.47
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -         105.0          74.52
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -          31.0          31.15
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -          70.0          67.48
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -          27.0          22.55
2387-IN    1984     Xhava Sheva Port                    250.0         -           245.88
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0         -           150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5         -           239.53
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Prad-sh Fertilizer           203.6         -           195.42
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -          36.5          36.03
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -          36.5          37.40
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -          17.5          12.00
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -          17.5          17.59
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                -         125.0         124.48
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation             -         172.0         146.70
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric        157.4         -           157.01
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -         129.8         129.25
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification            280.7         -           280.00
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power            300.8                     300.05
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power        135.4         -           135.06
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -          220.0        214.21
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry                -          31.8          31.65
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I           -          39.1          40.89
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development              -         138.0         145.88
2497-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*  200.0           -           200.00
1552-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*    -           100.0         100.00
1553-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Canal*              -         150.0         150.00
1569-IN    1985     Second National Agricultural Ext.*  -            49.0          49.00
1611-IN    1985     National Social Forestry*             -         165.0         165.00
1613-IN    1985     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*         -          13.2          13.20
2498-IN    1985     Jharia Coking Coal                  248.0         -           248.00
2505-IN    1985     Maharashtra Petrochemical          300.0          -           300.00
2534-IN    1985     Second National Highway*            200.0         -           200.00
2544-IN    1985     Chandrapur Thermal Power*          300.0          -           300.00
2555-IN    1985     Rihand Power Transmission*          250.0         -           250.00
2582-IN    1985     Kerala Power*                       176.0         -           176.00
1619-IN    1986     West Bengal Minor Irrigation*         -          99.0          99.00



JUI II
Page 4 of 5
US$ million
Loan or Fiscal                                               (let of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No,.    Appzojr l                                     isrnoke lc  IDA 1/    Undisbursee e
1621-IN    1986     Maharashtra Composite Irrigatiov*   -         160.0        160.00
1622-IN    1986    Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation* -           41.0         41.00
1623-IN    1986    West Bengal Population*              -          51.0          51.00
Total                                  8,487.0    13,752.7
of vhich has been repaid             1,324.5       219.7
Total nov outstandi                    7,162.5    13,533.0
Aount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA  2/  7,162.5   13,533.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)        3,887.15    3,473.30
jJ IDA Credit asounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, an established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
.;  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominsted IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1985.
ij Prior to exchange adjustment.
N Not yet effective.



Page 5 of 5
B. STATEMUT OF IFC INVESTMI_TS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount (11$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Compauy Ltd.           1.5        -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -       1.4
1961            R.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.      7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -      15.9
1981            Tata Iron-and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjiuns Steels Limited             1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Asbok-Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.7        -      15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.i        -       8.1
1984-86         The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.     13.5        -       13.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                         10.4       0.8     11.2
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      22.1        -      22.1
1985            Modi Cement                          12.5        -      12.5
1985            India Lease Development Ltd.          5.0       0.4      5.4
1986            Larsen and Toubro Ltd.               17.2               ILA.2
TOTAL GROSS COlHITNEITS       287.9      13.3    301.2
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           62.0       6,3    168.3
Now Held                   125.9       7.0    132.9
Undisbursed                 77.0       1.2      78.2
..mr        mm.   um m._



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Kev Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to PreDawre the Droiect
About one and a half years.
(b)  The atency which has prepared the uroiect
ICICI.
Cc) Date of first Dresentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the Droiect
July 1983.
(d) Date of departure of aypraisal mission
Nay 1985.
Ce) Date of completion of neaotiations
December 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1985.
Section II:     Special Ivlementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
section TII:    Suecial Conditions
(a) The beneficiary companies would install environmental
control equipment and facilities (para. 57);
(b) ICICI would submit to the Bank for review all small-
scale modernization and rehabilitation subprojects
whose funding requirements out of the proceeds of the
loan would exceed US$6 million, prior to ICICI
approval of such subprojects (para. 58);
(c) CKA would carryout the proposed manpower study and
feasibility study for a joint training center by
December 31, 1986 (para. 60); and
(d) ICICI and IDBI would execute for conversion
subprojects, sub loan agreements, which would
include: (i) arrangements for adequate cost overrun
financing; and (ii) maintenance of financial position
and capital structure ratios satisfactory to the Bank
(pars. 64).
(e) Signing subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI and
ICICI and IDBI for the use of funds earmarked for
conversion subprojects, and signing of a Grant
Agreement between GOI and ICICI for the use of the
funds earmarked for technical assistance would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Bank Loan to GOI
(Pars 65).
(f) Signing of a subloan agreement vith each of the
companies for the conversion subprojects would be a
condition of disbursements (Para 68).



ANNEX IV
PROCURENET ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element               ICB         LCB        Other         Cost
Equipment & Spares           141.4       133.6        3.0          278.0
(141.4)     (33.8)       (3.0)       (183.2)
Civil Works                   14.1        31.5        -             45.6
(14.1) al /              -           (14.1)
Infrastructure                 -           4.6        -              4.6
Erection/Start-up              -          24.1        -             24.1
Project Management                                    8.7            8.7
Training Programs                                     0.8            0.8
(0.6)         (0.6)
Technical Assistance                                  6.2            6.2
(4.8)         (4.8)
Equipment & Softvare for                              2.3            2.3
Training Facilities       _2_3__                   (2.3)
Total                155.5      193.8        21.0          770.3
(155.5)     (33.8)      (10.7)       (200.0)
A/ Purchase of steel.
b/ Not including interest during construction and taxes and duties.
c/ Only direct foreign exchange expenditures are financed by Bank Loan.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate accounts financed rrom proposed
Bank Loan.



IBRD 19204R
. f > HIMACHAL .                                           INDIA
PRA PR DESH              CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
1PNA &-F:;e9<   ttri,;i;^xSRegional Distribution of Projected Cement
r   PA K I S T A N              /v_ -                                                  Production and Demand in 1989/90
RAJASTNHAN
BUIA p               F  A            $           BHANTADESHN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                                                       DESH | ;
MADHYA PRADESH
.. rAW                                E                                                                                   . |
r; 955-l 8 c,1| Boy of Bengol
, . 4 jej SvdcJhad    {=ztvSUMMARY
A 5   ]~    *          *         -A           PROJECTED    PROJECTED   SURPLUS
- )  I   ANDHRA       ; REGION       DENAND    PRODUCTION  (DEFICIT)
NORTH        12.33         8.24       (4.09)
PRADESH            ~~EAST        7.69         4.19        (3.50)
pR   ,wzJ                       PRADESH                   VIEST         17.94        19.26        1.32
LjGj Em    t )                                SOUTH         13.36        18.1S       4.79
9~KARNATAKA\,~                      .              TOTAt INDIA  51.32        49.84         1.48)
KARNATAKA.,
i.S 0 WT-,
;~P1H                 A          t    1        CEMENT ROUCTION (ItN MILLIONS Of TomSI
I          llfwqJ     -                                 CEMENT DflAN  MIN lLLIONS OFNSI
Arabian   Sea                                  |      I CEMENT SUtPLUS STATES
Arcblcn   Sea                        s            <>            --               ,      , CEMENT DEFICIT STATES
A    PROJECT CEMENT PLANT LOCATIONS
'"Iftwo,TAM\IL NADU                       A.C.C. COMPANY NAMES OF THE CEMENT PLANTS
I 1 57 1                   0~~~~~~~ STATE CAPITALS
VCDRAlA.              .                            * NAIONAL CAPITAL
a    100  200  300  400  500            .                                             0 i-ONSAtOD  CAPIT
KILOMETERS                                -AREGION BONDARIES
MULES                                               MENDI CIETS
O        10 0    200       300             -                                            0 1douta. Pmd.tmw,  D.n.od
-  Trb_dNtF2o *dlou Thcn 50.000 Ton.s AnnuIly
SRI LANKA
Th - F_      r bWdbP Trw    SSdr '      '                                                     NOrE: DOL 10 SCAIE CONSORDAF5 7 ON SOME AREA S
awnuse..a.dowcose-volvinu.do  -arr""tweNwuntV.&OWMI&W                     ~~COrAD0 NOr OE INCLUDSQ IN rW! MAP: SEE MEA
FM. Co.pS     dD.0 . '.w.    .dandsw                                                                FOR ANY 11WORA IONAr hA AEAr AApPr ro
a.m, l d:h fone,*mmM wEm,SWwid_.t__er_.cA          -                                            AJCFI AREAS.
DECEMBER 1985



IBRD 19205R
HIMACHAL   24                                INDIA
<-  tMAl. A5jL                    CEMENT INDUSTRY PROJECT
S                                         I.+~PWNJAB                        ..~    Regionol Distribution of Cement Production
,be
PA K I S T A N                                    l ~.                   ,;C -&and Consumption in 1984 /85
~                                                      / t_ { { o {\ 6 -v--; 0BHUTAN
RAJASTHAN                          ,       S.----                   -         9- 
t                          /          },:,  . -   g    ;UTTA. :PRADEStI:  2-..w
r. -.     MEGHALAYA
:_   _       t   [ t    snrll^~ _   ;-\; - BIHAi  :--V
WE ASTANGLADESH
lX42 ~~~~MADHYA  PRADESH  ,0.5- 
ffi~~~~~~~~~~ S   .T.   
|l.                                                           8oy of 8encac
-  f                                                 SUMMARY
ACC       ANDHRA    C               REGION   CONSUMPTION  PRODUCTION  (DEFICIT
NORTH         7.51         5.64       11.87)
, ,   P   PRADESHI      EEAST           5.17         2.82      12.35)
2.49   PRADESH                  ~~~~~         ~~WEST  9.42  10.57       1.15
SOUTH         8.38        11.15        2.76
KARNATAK4t                          TOTAL INDIA  30.47        30.17       (0.30]
KARNATAKAi,_
S   0z1l              H   fbJ7 1 CEMENT PRODUCTION 1IN1I MLULSO OF TONSI
L2.  1 CEMENT CONSUMPTION IIN MILItONS OF TONS)
A    ar~ *    ec -               >                                             I      ICEMENT SURPUS STATES
CEMENT DEFICIT STATES
A    PRIJECT CEMENT FIANT LOCATIONS
-     -,XATAMIL NADU                      A.C.C.  COMPANY NAMES OF THlE CEMENT PLANTS
-to                                                                                                  * A  STATE CAPITALS
aIO R  100  200  300  400  500                                                           REION  DARES
MILFS                                              7AL                                          AINA  AIA
MuESo   100      200       300         :        CEIE-ITS bT
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           L~~~~~~~~~fI... Tka. 50.00 To.. A-mlloy
SRI LANKA
.a.oow.w.ibv _ha n~9a~ -rwe Wldir  = d '.                                         .     NOT: (FIDU rO SCALE CO1SDPERArON  SOME AREAS
Mw..oCW*m ;~~~.d.  .m.w.md..~~~~a. ao.p~~w    ,~~.,   ~                   CULD Nor SE INCLUDD INv ZHE MAP,: SEE FEAT
Io.C f  iO lb.             _ _" -_.I...Id Fbo... W                                            FOR AANr lAMRAFATION rHAr MAY APR r ID
-Ij.gaEM~bb    mR, .INWImdlt-f _          F       - waba u.                                         SUCHl AREAS.
DECEMBER 1985



