Document of                  FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2930-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A SECOND
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL PROJECT
December 19, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oany In the performn_ce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsclosed witout World bnk aunhoriatbion.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                                   October 1980
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
$1  = Esc. 48.923                                50.42
Esc. 1 = US$0.020                                    0.020
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report $1 = Esc. 50.0
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
BFN          Banco de Fomento Nacional
BIS          Bank for International Settlements
CGD          Caixa Geral de Depositos
EEC          European Economic Community
EFTA         European Free Trade Association
EIB          European Investment Bank
FGRC         Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
GFCF         Gross Fixed Capital Formation
IERR         Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFADAP       Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao
Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LIBOR        London Interbank Offered Rate
MLT          Medium- and Long-Term
SMI          Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
WHO          World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
SECOND BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN)
Guarantor:          Republic of Portugal
Amount:             US$ 100 million equivalent
Terms:              The loan would bear interest at 9.25 percent per
annum. Repayment would be according to a schedule re-
flecting the composite amortization schedules of the
subloans financed. The maximum repayment period would
be 15 years.
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be onlent by BFN to sub-
borrowers in local currency, at the maximum allowable
interest rate which is currently 22.25 percent, for
terms which would range from 5 to 7 years on average
with a maximum of 12 years, including grace periods of
normally up to three years, depending on the subproject
being financed. An interest rate subsidy is given for
investments in priority sectors (para. 26). The
Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund (FGRC) would carry the
foreign exchange risk for a fee collected from the
subborrowers (para. 27).
Project
Description:      The objectives of the proposed project are (i) to sup-
port the development of medium-sized economically
viable industrial projects in the private and mixed
sector enterprises with special emphasis on encouraging
industries with export potential; (ii) to assist BFN in
strengthening its export investment promotion and
service capabilities; (iii) to contribute to Portugal's
industrial restructuring in preparation for entry into
the European Economic Community (EEC); and (iv) to
improve BFN's arrears position.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
In addition, the project would continue to assist in
institution building by improving BFN's appraisal capability,
particularly in evaluating the marketing aspects and the
economic return of projects. BFN is a mature development
bank and has performed satisfactorily under the first loan
(para. 36). Economic conditions have improved substantially
over the past three years and there are no special risks
associated with the project. However, BFN's arrears
particularly in the public sector portfolio need to be
progressively reduced. The Government and BFN would take
measures to that end (para. 40).
Estimated Disbursement:                                  $ Millions----------
Year Ending December 31:              1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                             22       33      33        12
Cumulative                         22       55      88       100
Appraisal Report:    No: 3116-PO
Dated: December 12, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SECOND LOAN TO THE BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
second loan to Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) for the equivalent of US$100
million to help finance industrial lending. The loan would be repayable
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to subprojects approved under the project. The maximum term of
individual subloans would be 12 years, including grace periods of normally
up to three years. Commitments are expected to be completed within 3 years.
The Bank loan would have a maximum repayment period of 15 years. The
interest rate on the Bank loan would be 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.       Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
economy was radically transformed. The banks, insurance companies, power
companies, major transportation agencies and the large industrial groups
were nationalized. A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the
central and southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was
legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established
and restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were
controlled. Unemployment and social security benefits were increased. The
expectations of improved living standards, generated by the revolution,
produced rapid increases in real wages and private consumption in the period
to 1977, significant improvements in income distribution and large increases
in public expenditures and deficits, necessitating rapid monetary
expansion. The general circumstances of the revolutionary period and its
aftermath also generated a serious deterioration in the profitability and
general financial position of the private sector, and a significant decline
in foreign reserves.
4.       The difficulties facing the Portuguese economy were compounded in
the immediate post-revolution period by three major factors: (i) the
dramatic oil price increase of end-1973 which resulted in a sharp
deterioration in Portugal's terms of trade; (ii) the return of more than
half a million Portuguese from the overseas colonies to the mainland; and
(iii) the onset of recession in Europe with reduced demand for Portuguese
emigrant labor, export commodities and tourist facilities. The combination
of these external factors with the structural changes brought about by the
revolution resulted initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of



- 2 -
payments. The current surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large
deficit in 1975, which increased to $1,500 million by 1977. Thus, the
period 1974-77 saw Portugal fighting a losing battle with the problems of
maintaining private consumption and meeting the investment needs of the
economy in the face of continuing adverse external conditions. By 1977,
real consumption per capita had increased by about 10 percent over the 1973
level, both the external current account and the domestic budget were
substantially in deficit, and the level of inflation was 27 percent, while
open unemployment was over 300,000 (i.e., about 8 percent of the resident
labor force).
5.       A program of austerity measures, including currency devaluations,
was implemented in 1976 and 1977 but its impact was reduced by the continued
rapid expansion of credit, mainly to finance the government deficit. In
early May 1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of
payments deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken
to stabilize the economic situation included: (i) a 6.5 percent devaluation
of the escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the
escudo at a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point
increase in the rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and
lending rates; (iii) ceilings on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase
in taxes; (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for
water, electricity, gas and transportation, and essential food products; and
(vi) continued restrictions on allowable wage rate increases. The measures
were effective in reducing the balance of payments current account deficit
from $1500 million in 1977 to $800 million in 1978. This improvement was
associated with a substantial decline in real wages and a reduction in the
inflation rate to 22 percent. The continuation of similar policies in 1979
produced even more dramatic results with the balance of payments current
account showing a surplus of $150 million, export volumes rising by 27
percent and import volumes rising at only about 6 percent. Nonethiess the
visible deficit increased slightly as a consequence of the substantial oil
price increase during the year and a massive 60 percent increase in
migrants' remittances was necessary to produce the overall balance of
payments improvement. In early 1980, the focus of policy shifted to control
of inflation and a 6 percent revaluation was implemented in February.
Together with continued credit restraint and price controls, this has helped
to bring the inflation rate to a level somewhat less than 20 percent. The
crawling-peg devaluation was continued at 0.75 percent per month to June
1980 and thereafter was reduced to 0.5 percent per month.
6.       The major price which Portugal has had to pay for its remarkable
performance in the external sector has been a sluggish rate of growth (3.2
and 3.7 percent in the past two years). This has been inadequate to make
any real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent), and has contributed to
an average growth rate of consumption of only 0.5 percent per annum in the
past three years. The emphasis on short-run stabilization has also delayed
the formulation of policies to address the serious structural problems which
Portugal faces, some of which were created or exacerbated by the events of
1974/75. Particularly important is the large dependence on imported energy,



the rising dependence on food imports, a backward agricultural sector, an
industrial sector large parts of which still require heavy protection, an
ill-defined attitude to public enterprises and a weak tax structure.
Despite rising confidence in Portugal's economic and political stability,
investment has been very disappointing in recent years (it fell in real
terms in 1979), and has certainly not been adequate given the very
considerable investment needs of the economy.
A Growth Strategy-for the Eighties
7.       The success of short-term stabilization policies in 1978 and 1979
should lay the basis for increased growth of the Portuguese economy in the
next decade. While no actions should be taken which would jeopardize the
recent economic gains, a gradual policy of economic expansion now appears
feasible. A doubling of per capita income by the year 2000 would seem to be
an attainable goal, which implies an annual average GDP growth rate of 4.5
percent over the period (assuming a 0.9 percent population growth).
However, this performance will have to be achieved in the face of some
considerable constraints.  First and foremost, it is clear that any policy
for the medium term should allow for rates of growth of consumption which
are substantially better than those of recent years. The 20 percent decline
in industrial real wages since 1976 should not be expected to persist since
it has now largely eliminated the gains of the immediate post-revolution
period. On the contrary, rising real wages and consumption gains of the
order of 2 percent per annum in per capita terms should be anticipated.
Second, Portugal's import dependence is likely to continue to rise as the
economy is increasingly opened up to competition from the European Economic
Community (EEC). This will be exacerbated by the large rise in the import
price of petroleum products. This factor alone will add nearly $1000
million to the oil import bill and increase the 1979 visible deficit by
nearly 50 percent. If the target growth rate is to be achieved in spite of
this and other structural weaknesses on the import side, Portugal will
require a rate of growth of visible exports significantly higher than the
growth of world trade. Portugal will also need to retain policies which can
maintain migrants' remittances at a high level. This will require careful
balancing on the part of the Government since the measures which could
ensure a reasonable balance of payments position may, at the same time,
discourage investment and slow the rate of growth.
8.       Certainly the position defined above will require Portugal to fully
exploit its potential comparative advantage vis-a-vis the EEC which the
country expects to join in 1983. In the industrial sector this will mean an
emphasis on labor-intensive industries, both light industries, such as
textiles and footwear, and heavier items, including electrical machinery and
transport equipment. This will imply a substantial, and possibly painful,
rehabilitation process in some cases (e.g., textiles). Portugal's industrial
strategy is also complicated by the fact that its wage advantage will be
eroded and that intensified competition from the Far East will become a
problem for some products in which Portugal may have a comparative advantage
for the moment. This suggests the need for a planned approach to future



- 4 -
industrialization. Hopefully this will be assisted by finance, advice and
trading concessions from the existing members of the EEC. Although
Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the
development of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be
pursued whenever adequate rates of return can be demonstrated. In the case
of steel, for example, it may be legitimate for Portugal to expand capacity
in areas such as non-flat products where capacity elsewhere in the EEC is
unlikely to be expanded.
9.       In the case of agriculture, the acceptance of EEC policy will raise
prices to consumers but, at the same time, cause a net flow of resources
into agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability of various
agricultural items. Portugal needs to respond to this opportunity and
thereby reduce the very large trade deficit in agricultural items. The
necessary response is to modernize and increase investment in those items
such as fruits, off-season vegetables and, possibly, vegetable oils where
the climate and early season confer a strong comparative advantage. Modern-
ization in other more traditional agricultural crops is desirable even in
the absence of EEC entry, but would also help to ward off the threat of more
intensive European competition.
10.      The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in 1976,
in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not imple-
mented. Work is now underway to launch the preparation of a medium-term
public investment program. The challenge for Portuguese planners and
policymakers is to increase domestic savings, promote exports, and boost
employment within the limits of the constraints defined above. It is
estimated that an investment program of about Esc. 1,000 billion (in
constant 1978 prices) for the period 1980-84 in industry (27 percent),
housing and construction (18 percent), agriculture, transport and
communications and power (8 to 9 percent each), and health, education and
other services (29 percent), could produce an aggregate GDP growth rate
of 4.5 percent per annum over the same period. However, to implement
investments of this magnitude in a timely fashion, new institutional
arrangements would be required to streamline decision making, as well as
project preparation, implementation and supervision. As regards public
enterprises, there is a need to define a medium-term strategy which will
differentiate between their social and economic objectives. Thereafter
subsidy, pricing and other policies towards public enterprises should be
freed as far as possible from political intervention, thereby allowing
investment decisions to be made in the light of a clear understanding of the
future policy environment. For the moment, the development of these
enterprises and external lending to them is significantly hindered by the
fact that this is not done.
11.      The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment target indicated above. The Government
has recently established an integrated scheme of incentives for private



investment and has improved arrangemEnts for compensating owners of assets
nationalized in 1974/75. However, private investment is still hindered by
several factors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still
relatively low by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the
near future. Credit availabilities to the private sector are restricted by
the continuing large public sector borrowing requirement, although in the
absence of strong private sector demand this has not been a major constraint
in the past. Potential investors have considered current interest rates too
high. Like its predecessors, the new incentive scheme is essentially
designed to mitigate the perceived high cost of capital for selected
investments. Economic viability is a prerequisite for larger investments
and an important factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the
new scheme provides modest additional encouragement to exports and its
choice of sectoral priorities will require monitoring. However, the very
large increase in exports in 1979 indicates the potential of the private
sector in the new stable environment.
12.      Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. Improvement is a
matter of correcting deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the
revolution, of reorganizing the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and
strengthening its inadequate field services. Extension is weak in terms of
personnel and of the links with the research effort on the one hand, and
with small farmers and cooperatives on the other. The training and
education of agricultural manpower and of farmers has been insufficient in
the past and recent efforts in this area need to be further intensified.
Credit to the rural sector has neither been adequate nor production-
oriented and the mechanisms of agricultural credit need to be reviewed.
Fertilizer application rates are low. The situation has deteriorated since
1974 due to problems with agrarian reform and changes in land tenure.
Investment alone will achieve little without substantial advances in these
other areas as well. Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural
sector are underway.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.      Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to
Portugal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments
support and for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de
Portugal has obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from
the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and European central banks. In
addition, as of mid-1980, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to
Portugal amounted to about $180 million. The European Economic Community
(EEC), European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free Trade Association
(EFTA), as well as bilateral agencies have committed significant funds to
Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term projects. The
Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II. Starting in 1977, Portugal
received $750 million in medium- and long-term aid commitments as balance of
payments support from 14 countries, with the US, Germany and Japan being the
main contributors. In addition, Banco de Portugal converted about half of
its $1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium- and long-term debt. In



- 6 -
large part because of Portugal's gold reserve, the Government and major
banks and companies are able to attract medium-term loans from consortia of
commercial banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent terms have been
reasonable with ten years repayment at an average interest rate of about 0.7
percent over LIBOR. The present Government's efforts to stimulate direct
foreign investment have resulted in a $600 million commitment by Renault and
in the promise of other substantial investments. Portugal will however
concinue to require sizeable external inflows for the investment necessary
to restructure its economy. The multilateral lenders, and in particuliar,
the World Bank and the EEC/EIB, will have to continue to play a vital role
in helping Portugal meet its capital requirements. Pre-accession aid
proposed by the European Commission, for example, is a package of about $385
million.
14.      Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $1,400 million at end 1977
to about $3,400 million at end 1979. Service payments on this debt rose
from 3.7 percent of exports of goods and services plus workers' remittances
in 1977 to 5.5 percent in 1979. These figures include the portion of Banco
de Portugal debt held in MLT form. This amounted to $346 million in 1977
and $1,035 million in 1979. In addition, private non-guaranteed MLT debt
has risen from about $1,000 million in 1977 to $1,925 million in 1979. This
gives a total outstanding debt of about $5,300 million and a debt service
ratio of 12 percent. Portugal's total debt outstanding still remains at
manageable levels and presents an improved maturity profile. The debt
service ratio is expected to rise to about 19 percent by the middle of the
decade. Given Portugal's gold reserves of about 22 million troy ounces,
this seems a perfectly acceptable burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
15.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with
government priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly
developing industrial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped
finance three thermal and two hydropower projects, which were successfully
completed.
l6.      The events of the more recent past and the ensuing dislocation of
human resources have created special problems, and the transition to an open
political system has revealed social and economic weaknesses which
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Mechanical Industries Loans, which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 30, 1980.



- 7 -
are unusual for a high-income developing country.  The Bank has responded
to Portugal's needs cnrough identification, preparation and financing of
projects and through economic and sector work.
17.      Tne proposed loan would finance the Bank's eighteenth project in
that country, the thirteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976.
Bank operations since 1976 involved a power project, two highway projects,
two industrial finance projects, two education projects, water supply,
agricultural and fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer modernization and
mechanical industries projects. Total Bank loans since the resumption of
lending amount to $518 million. Disbursements under the 1976 and 1977
loans are behind schedule due mainly to the Portuguese agencies' initial
lack of experience with Bank procedures and slow action on procurement.
These difficulties are now being overcome. The 1976 and 1977 loans are
substantially committed, and procurement action (such as hiring
engineering consultants, and awarding major civil works contracts) has
started comparatively early under some 1978 and 1979 loans, altnough under
two loans delays in effectiveness have created problems. Nevertheless,
total BanK exposure in Portugal is still small. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of October 31, 1980 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
18.      In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and manage-
ment issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have
provided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level.
Reviews of the water supply (togetner with WHO) and education sectors were
carried out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977.
Agriculture and manufacturing export industries were also studied, and
were reviewed with the Government in November 1977. The report entitled
"Manufacturing Export Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 13, 1978, and the report
entitled "Portugal Agricultural Survey" (No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978. As a major problem, unemploy-
ment has received particular attention; a report which sums up the results
of a Bank survey, entitled "Unemployment in Portugal: Causes, Prospects
and Policy Options" (No. 2285-PO), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 10, 1979. A survey of the proposed public medium-term
investments was carried out in June 1979 and a report entitled "Priorities
for Public Sector Investment" (No. 2883-PO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 12, 1980. This report has served the
Government in establishing investment priorities.
19.      In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned
above, agriculture and industry have been identified as the areas of
concentration for Bank lending.  The industrial sector needs major
structural improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic
enterprises and modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are
being introduced in the fertilizer subsector and are being studied for the
pulp and paper, textile and steel subsectors with Bank support and



advice. In FY80, the Bank approved two loans which would support
restructurin6 and modernization of two major state-controlled enterprises
iin the mecnanical industries subsector.  Another important constraint to
industrial development has been insufficient financial and technical
support to smnali- and mediumn-size enterprises; the FY79 Small- and Medium-
Scaie industry Development Loan (SMI) is addressing this need. The
proposed loan would also support the development of medium-sized
economically viable projects, mostly in the private and mixed sectors,
with emphasis on encouraging industries with export potential, and would
cjntribute to Portugal's industrial restructuring in preparation for entry
into the European Economic Community (EEC). The imnportance of developing
Ene industrial sector cannot oe overemphasized since this sector will be
the main force in the Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, to
2oncinue with the export expansion whicn started in 1978 and to maintain
competitiveness in the EEC. The main objectives of Bank lending to
industry are structural reform, export promotion and employment creation
(or preservation). In agriculture, a sector beset by major problems,
there is considerable scope for stepping up growth. The major constraints
are the still unsettled land tenure conditions, institutional weaknesses
anid a shortage of trained technicians for promoting improved technologies.
The Bank has assisted the Government in creating an agricultural credit
institution and in FY80 approved a loan for a forestry project. Further
operations in this sector are likely to foster agroindustries, fisheries,
rural development and extension. The trained manpower requirements of the
industrial and agricultural sectors, which constitute a serious bottleneck
particularly in agriculture, are being addressed througih the FY78 and the
FY60 Education loans. The improvements in transportation required to
sustain the increased output of the agricultural and industrial sectors
are being addressed by the FY76 and the FY79 Highway loans, and a railways
project is under preparation. Work is well advanced on an oil exploration
and enginteering project which would help reduce Portugal's dependence on
imported oil.
2U.      The deilationary policies of 1977-1979 (para. 5), while contri-
buting to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted
implemenltation of development programs now urgently needed in many
sectors.  If the restructuring needs of the economy are to be tackled
seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the social sectors corrected,
long-.erm external assistance will be needed to assist Portugal. It is
the World bank's objective to contribute to these efforts and to provide
advice on institutional retorms which are crucial for Portugal's long-term
economic objectives.



-9-
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Background
21.      Manufacturing is the leading sector in the Portuguese economy,
accounting for about 38 percent of GDP, 24 percent of employment, 37
percent of total investment, and almost 90 percent of merchandise
exports. During the period 19o3-73, manufacturing spearheaded economic
growth with a 10-11 percent rate of growth based on captive markets in the
former colonies, artifically low wages, cheap raw materials and energy,
restrictive industrial licensing, and protective tariffs. This growth was
essentially concentrated in a few large enterprises, helped by privileged
access to credit and foreign technology, while most small and medium
enterprises, in which the bulk of manufacturing taKes place, had little
encouragement to grow and modernize. The unbalanced industrial structure
proved vulnerable to the sweeping changes in the environment that followed
the 1974 revolution. Production, profitability and general financial
viability declined in many enterprises. Despite the nationalizations in
Mlarch 1975, private firms 1/ remained dominant--accounting for 85 percent
of value added, d8 percent of manufacturing employment, and more than 90
percent of manufactured exports--but they reacted to the unstable and
depressed post-revolutionary environment by halting investment almost
completely. The absence of serious controls of bank credit until 1977 was
of major importance in covering the poor operating position of many enter-
prises. However, while this bailed out viable institutions, including
several public enterprises, during a difficult period, it created serious
arrears problems for all financial institutions, including Banco de
Fomento Nacional (BFN) (paras. 39 and 40), and delayed restructuring of
the non-viable segments of industry.
22.      Some improvement in the investment climate occurred as a
consequence of the stabilization program of 1978 and the associated
recovery of profitability. This prompted a better capacity utilization
and some private investment in plant expansion. In 1978, 1979 and 1980,
manufacturing exports registered substantial increases, further improving
the incentive for expansion. However, investment performance as a whole
remains inadequate relative to the long run needs of the economy. In
addition, attaining industry's full long-term potential and raising its
efficiency, both of which are vital for success within the EEC, require
significant cost reductions and increases in productivity in most
industries. This often implies restructuring. Progress in this area
will be difficult because it involves not only improving management and
the operating efficiency of viable enterprises, but the elimination of
non-viable enterprises through merger, consolidation or liquidation.
1/ Including mixed firms which operate as private firms but have the
Government as shareholder due to the nationalization of the banks which
held some of their shares.



- 10 -
Firms also need to develop or upgrade and adapt product lines to compete
profitably in the more competitive markets to which tney must increasingly
export. Furthermore, this adaptation and tne higher investment targets
need to be achieved in the context of reducing levels of protection ds a
consequence of EEC membership.
23.      Portugal has a comparative advantage in relatively sophisticated
manufacturing because of the availability of Labor and engineering skills
at relatively low cost, a well developed infrastructure and its location
with easy access to markets in Western Europe, North Africa and the Mtiddle
East. In recent years, the cost competitiveness of exports, after a
serious decline, has nearly doubled relative to 1973 due to the
devaluation of the escudo, the decline in real wages, and improvements in
productivity. Import surcharges have been substantially reduced, and
rationalization of the tariff structure is planned.
The Financial Environment
24.      The principal financial institutions are Banco de Portugal (the
Central Bank); nine commercial banks; Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD), the
major savings institution; Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento
da Agricultura e Pescas (IFADAP), the specialized institution for agricul-
tural, fisheries ana agroindustry credits; and Banco de Fomento Nacional
(BFN), the development bank whichi was the beneficiary of an earlier Bank
loan (paras. 28 and 36). Though the commercial banks and BFN were
nationalized in March 1975, CGD and IFADAPi have been public institutions
since their inception; all are significantly autonomous.
25.      Interest Rates.  Banco de Portugal sets mandatory interest rates
for both deposits and loans. Interest rates were raised many times bet-
ween April 1974 and the beginning of 1978. As part of the stabilization
program agreed with the IMF, maximum lending rates were raised to 22.25
percent in May 1978 and have remained at that level. This interest rate
is currently positive in real terms as the inflation rate has declined
from 24 percent in 1979 to under 20 percent in 1980.  This situation is
expected to improve further over the coming years when inflation is
projected to be around 19 percent in 1981 and 16 percent in 1982.
Portuguese interest rates are now highly competitive internationally and
nave stimulated large inflows of funds from migrant workers, which have
swollen the liquidity of the banking system.
26.      After three years of experimentation, the Government established
in July 1980 a new investment incentive scheme which invoives interest
rate reductions of from 2-8 points (as well as fiscal incentives) and is
intended to promote the development of exports, the expansion of certain
priority sectors, and growth in less developed regions.  The level of
incentive available is determined in most part by a project's overall
viability.  This is measured by a cost/benefit ratio adjusted for tne
snadow price of foreign exchange.  Location in regions and sectors with



- 11 -
high priority are taken into account in determining the degree of
incentive to be given. There is a minimum threshold below which projects
do not qualify for any incentive. The incentives are financed from the
government budget.
27.      Exchange Risk.  To reduce the adverse impact on industrial
investments of the uncertainty due to exchange rate fluctuations, the
Government, in February 1977, established the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
(FGRC) under the supervision of Banco de Portugal. The Fund absorbs the
exchange risk associated with selected foreign borrowings for high
priority projects. In return, the Fund receives fees corresponding
generally to the difference between the domestic (floating) interest rate
and the interest rate on the foreign borrowings, after deduction of a
commission (about 2 to 3 percent) for the intervening Porcuguese financial
intermediary. The fee paid to the Fund ranges from over 5 percent to over
13 percent depending on the interest rate on the foreign borrowing.
Coverage is extended for only one year at a time and is renewable at the
option of the Fund. Although the long-term financial position of the Fund
has not been evaluated, it is intended to be self-sufficient and to date
its revenues have been sufficient to meet its guaranteed payments. The
subloans under the first BFN project and the SMI line of credit benefit
from exchange risk coverage, and so would the subloans under the proposed
project.
Bank Assistance to Development Finance
28.      The Bank has provided financial and institutional support to
industry through two development finance operations which involve the
commercial and development banks, as well as government organizations
specialized in technical assistance to industry. These development
finance operations have been directed to industrial expansion,
restructuring and modernization; improvement in project selection methods;
institutional improvements to provide better technical assistance, export
promotion and technology support. The Bank's first loan in the sector was
made to BFN (Ln. 1432-PO) and after a slow start, the $50 million loan was
rapidly committed and BFN's performance has been satisfactory (para. 36).
In 1979, another Bank loan was made to complement the BFN loan, to
encourage the development of small- and medium-size industrial enterprises
(Ln. 1701-PO). Involving all major banking institutions, including BFN,
this loan became effective on August 29, 1980, after delays due to
institutional issues. The proposed second loan to BFN would enable BFN to
assist industry in expansion, modernization and restructuring for entry
into the EEC, and would help to maintain its important role in Portugal's
economic development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.      The project was prepared from April 1979 to March 1980, and
appraised in April 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from
November 10, 1980, to November 14, 1980. The Portuguese delegation was



- 12 -
led by Dr. Joao Salgueiro, President of Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN),
and included representatives from that institution and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. A staff appraisal report entitled "Portugal;
Second Loan to Banco de Fomento Nacional" (No. 3116-PO), dated December 12,
1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III.
Objectives of the Proposed Loan
30.      The proposed second loan to BFN will provide foreign exchange
resources to Portugal to support the development of medium-sized
economically viable projects in the private and mixed sectors, with
emphasis on encouraging industries with export potential; assist BFN in
strengthening its export investment promotion and service capability;
contribute to Portugal's industrial restructuring in preparation for entry
into the EEC; and improve BFN's arrears position. In addition, the loan
would continue the institution-building assistance started under BFN I to
further improve its appraisal capability, particularly in evaluating the
marketing aspects and the economic return of projects.
Implementation
31.      The project will be implemented by BFN.  Since its formation in
1959 as Portugal's development bank, BFN has concentrated on medium- and
long-term loans to industry, transport, and public utilities. The
percentage of Portugal's gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) financed by
BFN in 1979 was about 7 percent. Because of its long involvement in the
sector, BFN has acquired a comparative advantage in the promotion of the
industrial sector. It has pioneered in many areas such as rate of return
calculations, promotion, technical assistance, to which many other banks
have yet to commit themselves.
32.      Management and Organization.  The Board of Management of BFN
consists of six members, including the President, appointed for three-year
renewable terms by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the
Minister of Finance. The present management team represents a balanced
combination of economic and financial expertise and continues to provide
effective leadership based on experience gained in both banking and
government service. Total staff is 790; 172 professionals are employed in
the head office. The staff is well qualified and highly motivated and
currently BFN has no major recruiting difficulties. A computer system is
being installed which should improve the presently inadequate management
information systems, especially as regards arrears. Until recently, all
investment decisions were taken in Lisbon. However, BFN has decided that
decisions on investments under $200,000 will now be made by the regional
offices which are also responsible for supervising the branches in their
districts. The branches serve mainly to stimulate deposits and facilitate
disbursements. More recently, the branches have become actively involved
in arrears collection and project promotion. BFN has an independent
Commission of Control that reviews the accounting procedures and certifies
the yearly financial statements; it is assisted in this by an independent
firm of international auditors which audits the financial statements.



- 13 -
33.      Capital Structure and Resources.  BFN was established as a
development bank in the form of a joint stock company by a Decree Law
enacted in 1958. Before the revolution, the Government was the major
shareholder, holding over 30 percent of BFN's equity. In 1975 BFN, along
with other financial institutions, was nationalized and is now completely
owned by the Government. The paid-up share capital totals Esc. 5.3
billion ($100 million equivalent) which is double the 1976 amount of Esc.
2.5 billion. The major contribution to BFN's resources continues to come
from time deposits. As of December 31, 1979, these accounted for about 40
percent of BFN's total resources, while foreign loans provided about 16
percent, with the balance made up of local loans (32 percent) and equity
(12 percent). In addition to its portfolio, BFN has a managed funds
portfolio of about Esc. 4.8 billion. The main components of these funds
are loans from the Europen Free Trade Association (EFTA) and government
funds made available to Portuguese nationals displaced from the former
colonies. On managed funds, BFN undertakes the appraisal, supervision and
collection of debt service and receives a management fee of three quarters
of one percent. Under the first Bank loan, BFN was required to maintain a
medium- and long-term debt/equity ratio not exceeding 6:1.  BFN's
debt/equity ratio has, in fact, remained well below this target and stood
at 4.5:1 at the end of December 1979.
34.      Operations.  From 1959, when it commenced operations, until
December 31, 1979, BFN's term lending operations accounted for almost all
of its portfolio, with guarantees and equity investments representing the
rest. During the two years ending in December 1979, BFN's loan approvals
increased by about 80 percent in current escudo terms, but the number of
loans decreased 15 percent to 593. This fall in the number of loans,
divided equally between the industrial and agricultural sectors, was due
largely to the increased activity of the commercial banks in term lending,
particularly for small- and medium-size industrial enterprise projects.
This, coupled with inflation, has led to a decrease in the amount of loans
under $500,000 made by BFN, from 20 percent in 1977 to about 10 percent in
1979. Its 1979 investments were about equally divided between the public
and private sectors. This represents an increase in lending to the public
sector of about 25 percent over the 1976 levels. A major part of this
lending to the public sector was in the form of indirect loans for the
acquisition of capital goods (para. 35). BFN's investment is skewed in
favor of the three main industrial districts on the west coast, with over
80 percent of loan approvals made for projects located in Lisbon, Setubal
and Porto, during 1979. The balance was committed in the remaining
fifteen districts and the islands. BFN is studying ways of ensuring a
more regionally equitable distribution of its portfolio. The regional
distribution of BFN's sub-loans under the first BFN project was better
than BFN's overall record.
35.      Types of Loans.  BFN makes three types of loans:  (i) direct
credits for capital investment; (ii) credits to finance production and
sales within Portugal, and (iii) credits to producers of Portuguese goods
for export. The latter two, referred to as indirect credits, are
generally made to heavy equipment manufacturers and building contractors.



- 14 -
Equity investments of BFN are marginal and consist mostly of investments
in publicly-owned companies. Appraisals of all direct credits to the
private and mixed sectors are satisfactorily conducted by the Development
Services Department which has been considerably strengthened since the
first Bank loan was extended to BFN in 1976. The Internal Economic Rate
of Return (IERR) calculation, introduced under the first Bank loan, is now
made for all projects over $3 million and for all projects of over
$600,000 financed under the Bank loan. Projects with an IERR of less than
10 percent are not considered for financing. In addition, BFN staff is
playing a major role in conjunction with Banco de Portugal in extending
the requirement to assess the IERR to all large projects financed by the
commercial banks. To strengthen its project evaluation even further, BFN
would calculate the IERR for all projects in the manufacturing, mining,
agro-industry and fish processing subsectors estimated to cost Esc. 100
million ($2 million) or more. For other projects (above $500,000 cost) a
simplified benefit/cost ratio based on the Government's new incentive
scheme (para. 26) would be calculated. Also, under the proposed loan,
BFN's capacity to evaluate sales potential and marketing aspects will be
reinforced (para. 38). The appraisal of indirect credits is limited to
checking the adequacy of the security offered and the creditworthiness of
the borrower. The proposed Bank loan will be allocated to direct credits
for projects in the above-mentioned subsectors mostly by privately owned
and mixed enterprises.
36.      Performance under the First Loan.  BFN's processing of the
previous Bank loan was satisfactory. Despite a delay in signing and
effectiveness of the loan due to a legal problem beyond BFN's control, the
loan was committed rapidly; an extensive industrial and geographical
distribution was achieved with some 87 subprojects, 70 of which were under
the free limit of $600,000 and accounted for about 26 percent of the
loan. The remaining 17 subprojects above the free limit, had satisfactory
IERRs ranging between 16 and 40 percent. The subprojects were estimated
to create nearly 2,600 new jobs in the aggregate and also provided work
for a substantial number of idle or underemployed workers in the
enterprises involved.
37.      Project supervision is undertaken by the Control and Inspection
Department, in addition to its other major tasks of following up on
arrears and evaluating the creditworthiness of proposed borrowers.
Following improvements made since the first loan, BFN is now well informed
of the status of its major clients. A Director, recently appointed, is
reorganizing the Department to further improve monitoring of its
borrowers, with special emphasis on improving the arrears position.
38.      Promotion.  Since the first loan to BFN, a Promotional Services
Divisionl has been established to undertake direct promotion of BFN's
services to industry. This represents a relatively new marketing approach
to investment banking in Portugal. The Economic Studies Department is
also concerned with general promotion and the conduct of special studies.
However, BFN feels the need to expand its promotional activities further,
especially in export-oriented promotion and industrial restructuring in



- 15 -
preparation for Portugal's entry into the EEC. The Bank has reviewed
BFN's promotional activities and recommended measures for strengthening
them with emphasis on export-oriented projects. Based on these
recc.n,i,ndations, BFN has established a strategy for promoting
export-oriented investment in consultation with the Bank. The strategy
will be pursued through an action plan outlining the subsector and
export-marketing studies to be undertaken, staffing, training and
technical assistance needs, and a timetable to implement this strategy.
Over a period of two years, this program is expected to strengthen BFN's
capability to provide assistance to export-oriented manufacturing and
promote investment in export-oriented projects. Agreement has been
reached with BFN on the implementation of the action plan (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).   To enable the Bank to provide maximum technical
assistance on the evaluation of export-oriented projects, BFN has agreed
to allocate half of the proposed Bank loan to export-oriented projects
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). BFN will also conduct a study on the
restructuring needs of the industry with regard to EEC membership (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05). This study would follow-up on sectoral studies
and a study on the impact of EEC entry commissioned by the Government.
The precise scope and focus of the study would be determined in the light
of the EEC entry study now nearing completion. In broad terms, it would
identify companies which need restructuring assistance and formulate an
action program to help them. Terms of reference for this study would be
established in consultation with the Bank.
39.      Portfolio and Arrears.  BFN's portfolio at December 31, 1979,
amounted to about $1 billion (Esc. 52 billion), and was made up of loans
(98 percent) and equity investment (2 percent). In the aftermath of the
1975 revolution, industrial unrest, labor indiscipline, loss of captive
markets, price controls and loss of competitiveness decreased the
profitability and, in many cases, affected the viability of enterprises.
To block the massive bankruptcies and associated unemployment, at a time
when unemployment was already very high, the Government utilized the large
liquidity of the banking system to extend very liberal credits to all
sectors, with little regard to the financial position of borrowers. As a
result, all financial institutions in Portugal encountered serious arrears
problems. BFN's arrears position has continued to deteriorate, rising
from about 10 percent of its portfolio in 1976 to about 15 percent in
1979; however, the arrears position now appears to have passed its peak.
40.      An analysis of the arrears position as of December 31, 1979 shows
the following: of the total 15.2 percent of the portfolio that is in
arrears, the public sector accounts for 5.5 percent, the private sector
for 3.9 percent and the ex-colonies, 5.8 percent, for a total of $162
million (Esc. 8.1 billion). In the public sector, the majority of the
companies involved are in serious financial difficulties and depend upon
government subsidies to meet their debt service and in some cases to meet
part of their operating expenses. BFN has provided loans to these
companies, usually subject to the government guarantees, and it must
ultimately rely on the Government to service the debt or to enable the
companies in arrears to do so. In this respect, the Government plans to



- 1i6 -
financially rehabilitate four major public companies, which account for
most of the arrears, in the next two years. The arrears on loans made to
the ex-colonies are under negotiation between Portugal and the respective
governments and no solution is expected in the immediate future. In the
private sector, BFN is improving its collection procedure and this,
together with the viability contracts being prepared, is expected to lead
to progress in this sector. On a best efforts basis, BFN has agreed to
reduce arrears (Loan Agreement, Section 4.08). In the private sector,
arrears on accounts presently in default on December 31, 1980 would be
reduced by 20 percent per annum in each of the three following years
(1981-1983) and arrears on all other loans would not exceed 6 percent of
the outstanding loan amounts. In the public sector, arrears at the end of
1981 would not exceed the end-1980 levels and would be reduced
progressively beginning 1982. An understanding has been reached that, in
line with its general policy, BFN would not lend to public sector
enterprises with significant arrears unless these enterprises are engaged
in sound financial rehabilitation schemes. The planned financial
rehabilitation of major debtors should help BFN to achieve these
objectives. The results of these efforts would be reviewed semiannually
with the Bank. BFN charges its earnings a substantial provision against
losses. At December 31, 1979, BFN's provision for arrears amounted to
about 8 percent of its loans and the auditors are satisfied that this
provision, together with the Government's guarantee and other security
held, is adequate.
41.       Prospects.  BFN hopes to increase the share of gross fixed
capital formation it finances from 6.9 percent in 1979 to 7.3 percent in
1980, and to maintain it at 7.5 percent from 1981 onwards. The proposed
promotion program (para. 38) should enable BFN to improve its financing of
export and restructuring projects. As a result of the expected increase
in BFN's level of operations and slightly higher debt leverage, operating
income as a percent of average equity should improve steadily from about
15 percent in 1980 to 20 percent in 1984. An understanding has been
reached to increase BFN's spread from the previous low level of 2.3
percent in 1979 to 3 percent on the proposed second Bank loan and to
review, in conjunction with the debt equity ratio, other measures to
increase its overall spread. Total assets are expected to double by
1984. The growth in BFN's loan portfolio is expected to be financed
mainly through increases in time deposits and additional foreign currency
borrowings. In view of the present arrears position and low spread, the
current debt/equity limitation of 6 to 1 would be maintained by BFN, and
the possiblity of increasing this ratio would be reviewed with the Bank,
from time to time, in the light of improvements in BFN's profitability and
arrears (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06 and Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.02).
Terms of the Proposed Loan
42.       To ensure that repayments to the Bank by BFN are matched by
repayments to BFN, the usual adjustable composite amortization schedule
not exceeding 15 years is proposed. The maximum term of individual
subloans will be twelve years. The majority of subloans are expected to



- 17 -
be made for terms ranging from five to seven years. Industrial subloans
will be limited to a maximum of $5.0 million, and the free limit will be
set at $1.5 million. BFN would charge its subborrowers the current
floating interest rates. Qualifying subborrowers would benefit from
investment incentives (para. 26). BFN agrees on a disbursement schedule
with its subborrowers and charges a one percent per annum commitment fee
on the amount of money not disbursed in accordance with the agreed
schedule. In view of BFN's satisfactory performance as a sound
development bank under the first loan and its established appraisal
capacity, an aggregate free limit has not been established. BFN will
submit full documentation for at least 15 major projects of its choice to
the Bank for review.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.      BFN has no published guidelines on procurement.  In the case of
large investment projects (above $2 million), subborrowers ask for bids
from qualified local suppliers. These bids are then reviewed before a
decision on procurement is taken. For smaller projects, quotes from
several sources are obtained. In all cases BFN's engineers check the
appropriate production methods, the reputation of the supplier and the
competitiveness of the prices against their own experience with similar
projects before approval is given. If BFN is not satisfied that the
prices are reasonable, the subborrower is required to obtain additional
quotations. Disbursements are only made after invoices and other
documents are checked to ensure that the goods being paid for were those
originally approved as part of the project. These procedures are
satisfactory. The proceeds of the proposed loan, to be committed by
December 31, 1983, would be used to cover 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment and services, 50 percent of the total
cost of imported goods procured in Portugal and 35 percent of the total
cost of goods produced in Portugal (estimated to correspond to the foreign
exchange cost). Funds would be available for the foreign exchange cost
(estimated at $1 million) of consultancy services and training abroad, in
respect of BFN's export promotion program and of the industrial
restructuring study. In line with recent experience, consultancy cost
estimates are based on average man-month costs of about $9,500, including
fees, overhead, and other expenses. Consultancy services for the
export-promotion program and the study would amount to about 8 man-years.
The closing date of the proposed loan is June 30, 1985.
Justification and Risk
44.      Portuguese industry is going through a difficult adjustment and
restructuring process. Restrictive policies, which succeeded in
redressing the balance of payments deficits, have constrained the
restructuring of industry. Hence, little has been done to prepare
industry for entry into the EEC. The needs for replacement and
modernization of equipment are widespread and the scope for export
promotion and development is substantial. It is essential that action be
taken rapidly if Portugal is to avail itself of the opportunities that EEC



- 18 -
membership will provide. BFN, with its strong government ties, its
participation in industrial and financial policy making, and good
relations with the business community, is particularly well placed to
assist in this process. BFN has performed well under the first loan,
economic conditions have improved substantially over the past three years,
and there are no special risks associated with the project. However, BFN
has substantial arrears, particularly in its public sector portfolio. On
the other hand, BFN has government guarantees covering most of this
portfolio and this problem is expected to be resolved during the next few
years through the financial rehabilitation of principal debtors in arrears
(para. 40).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Portugal and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
46.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There are no special conditions for the effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
47.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
48.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 19, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  1  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGlHITED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                                - MosT RECENT ESTIMATE) La
TOTAL              92.1
AGRICULTURAL       ( 41.1                                MOST RECENT               RIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE                  COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (UlS$)                  350.0       930.0    1990.0                    2381.1                   8104.2
ENERCY CONSUMPTTON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      382.0        754.0    1030.0                    1641.4                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       9.0          9.0        9.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2       29.6                     53.9                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         12.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1H.                        98.0         98.0     106.0                      77.2                    142.8
PER SQ. MI. AGRICULTURAL LAND    218.0         218.0     238.0                     129.5                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTIURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2         28.5      27.2                      30.6                     23.5
15-6L YRS.                          62.8         61.8      62.7                     61.1                     65.1
AS E . AND AH.OVE                    8.0          9.7       10.1                      8.2                     11.4
Pr 'l :TON GROrnTH RATE (PERCENT)
'0IAL                               0.7/c        0.01c      1.0                      1.6                      0.7
IlbkAN                               1.4         1.5        2.5                      3.3                      1.3
RUD7F 8lk-H RATE ('-R TNOUS&ND)     24.0         20.0      18.0                     22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DFATH RATE (PWI! r'OUSAND)       8.n         9.0       10.0                      8.9                      9.1
CROSS RE"RODUCTION RATE                1.6         1.5        1.2                      1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLAN'NiNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUrTITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUrT!3N
PER CAPITA (1969--71-100)          92.0        109.0      75.0                     113.1                    110.8
PER rAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PFSCFNr OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   116.0        128.0     126.0                    125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY'           78.0         89.0      83.0                     91.0                      98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.0         38.0      38.0                     39.6                      62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        7.0         6.0        2.2                      4.3                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.0          67.0      69.0                      67.8                     73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            77.5         58.0      39.0                      55.9                     13.2
ACCESS TO SAFe WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      65.0
URMAN                                ..           ..      90.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      56.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1200.0/d    1100.0      707.0                    1030.1                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1430.0/d    1000.0      502.0                     929.4                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             183.0        164.0     190.0                    289.7                     121.2
UTRRAN                               ..           ..
RURAI.                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         10.0       12.0                     17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                               3.9          3.7
URBAN                               4.0           ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                                1.1         0.8
URBAN                                1.0          ..
RURAI.                               1.1          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2         ..
URBAN                              88.5           ..
RURAL                              27.4           ..



- 20 - o                                                 I
Page 2 of v
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                           REFERENCE GROUPS (UEIGHTED AVERGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDU5TRIALIZZD
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS  h
PRIKARY:     TOTAL       -           ..         98.0     130.0                    105.9                    100.1
MALE                    ..        99.0      134.0                   109.3                    102.2
FEMALE                  *         96.0      127.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   ..         57.0      59.0                    64.0                      87.1
MALE                    ..        63.0       59.0                    71.1                     84.4
FEMALE                  ..        51.0       59.0                    56.9                     84.3
V0CATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  46.0          32.0      40.0                     28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         34.0      27.0                     29.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                          19.0         17.0       14.0                   26.1                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0        71.0       70.0                      ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         54.0     108.7                    84.6                     339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         96.0        159.0     173.0                   192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         45.0      82.0                   118.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  63.0         84.0       70.0                    93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           3.0        4.1                     5.7                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3478.5       3550.0    3763.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.9         24.8      26.0                    30.4                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              44.1         33.3      27.0                     37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.0         33.2      37.0                    29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                38.5         39.3      44.6                     40.9                     44.6
MALE                                  66.0        62.3       56.4                    55.9                     58.1
FEMALE                                13.2        18.5       32.3                    26.2                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0        1.0                     1.0                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          56.1e.f  56.3/s..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..                   7.3/r*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.6ef  21.4Le,.j
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     480.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     480.0                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and [971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1962; /e Highest
25% and lowest 252 and 50I of households; /f 1968; IR 1973-74.
!H.  } slrll.lrxc l; r: i;c iosIDt ('Orcj-.r;,l,lc iLi t *r d LO to chb nges it. ege
grcupr ii; pri-:.ry .rn' ccco C2try eLuc.2:t 
October 1980



- 21 -                                                              ANNEX i
Page 3 of 5
efPlINITIONSt OF SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
Note:  Alhou h.th  dat-  r0 drone tro  souce  gen-eely judged the mos ...u.thotttattl  and reliable, it should also he nosed that they may nor he inter
-ainll    opaal  he-u-  o1 the lath tf oeleded.deiotioso  and concpts on-d by dIfrn   onresi   oltigthe data,  The data ate,noe
ofTheslrtcuty ruytfr'otl PurplonClh aportere...grouP wher Midl  luen  Ort, AfrtandM Mddle  ca'is  lseh                                               ecaeof strosga
srl-o f"o nftt-fes; ., ltthe  -f-r-ar  group doto the av-roes  ar  epulation weighted ar1thtbe           z .sar- for .eth itdit-so   and  ,hat  oly chata
-esth-   f  O  catye   in a grop huedt-     orta    -udctr    lnrethsrvrnoftoerlt  aeng the itdlo-tes dryorda on th. avetiohiis   o
dare a-d  -ttcuiforn, tutto  aun  be  xertl-edt  reag ates-gen of on..d.                     su   to another. -Thnes  troo   cro  ono        . useful t -toputn  the tales
of not td  _otat - atatire       .  tmhogS rorutry ao.e.   susgrus
LABl ARiA (thousan.d sq.k.)                                                                  Poaatn  o   halis    'pulatton d-shed hy ossr os peadtitri.4 pip-
Total - Total surface -c   1oprag  ad -ree and inland eater.                                  sloi_t  qualified fro  a  sitta1 school as university I.v..
Aaiolnra  -taisc  of ageftoua  area osodI temporerily -e Pe-.neoly                P-rultionpe  tfeies F..a     - "Pp"I,-o  idir d by camber of prscn i:tcg
fr-ct.p., Potrs  macht- an  hkre  gardeosorto lIe Fellow; 1977 data,                       eels sod faal  gre-deaeaas,pntla                   ..r..a aad assis.tas  sea
Poplale  re  taeiallied -total. a-has. se          .Iro  - Popsl.ita   (tota.2
IMP Pit CAPITA(1$-lP percait  e                 tico  nt cuerrt ocekot pricos, tel-             urban, ad  ua)dvddb  tei   epei smbro optlhd
rolarod b  namecactrGNP   meho  as World Bash Atlas  (1977-79 baa Ia): 1960,            avilabie In pahict and Private gnerlmd' apta _ed heepitesaem
1970,oad  1979 data.                                                                         hailhitatias retore.Hotpitals ar .stabihhismnts perustly staRtd
fIlRi CS4IItoI0OPhCAiT   -Aeua  tusuptoooFtomeocil  negy(tal            by at least on  phyFai.te.  tthiamnsp-eiding priseipalip  c-sedis
cadRG  COigUMTI, OtNlu,ntrlgsadhdo,ooo adgohre   lt                                            rare seaInnAi..Ided   lineal ho piti,heshavee, inninde hsslelh aA sadiea
ig  , P.tt.l._ , ..t.   _d                                        -o~~~~~~~reters net permanetly steffed by    psirisa  (hen hy a _adiesli sststsm
,teirity) lokilogram   of coal  qai-1ten  Per -oplt; 1960, 1970, and 1979                    -os, eidefe, ott,) shiob ofte  ta-patient ato.daftins -me  Prov.ide 
dna.                                                                                          Itmuted  -scac of eadical fFftto        .,o atatiartaid  ps-peas  s-bs  haspi-
tale incis4o altOs peisoipel general and ap-etahid hempitla. sad rura
PfPULATION AND VITAL. STATISITCS                                                               h.bopitailots  orraa ..epeIa nd medical  ed starmity t-rr.
TotalPoruatio. Mi-trt(ilos  - As of JulY 1; 1960, 1970, ned 1978                      Aeste   e   orclfe   Tota  nute  of admiesiole to ar disohargas
data.                                     too   -.    ott1  ....;F roe hospitals divided by the number of bade.
differene detloitioes ot -eb. an   sa  may atf pct tompbailityofdt                     RoUSii
ase    tunina; 1960, 1970, nod 199at.Asarag.s                                                   ' lies .o goeebld (prene  pe  hoshod    ttl ueba. sod renal-
Populaion P-ol-t.oos                                                                         A hoasahol'd ce sc   f a  rou  of tedilduels  h. chars ltisig qoartars
iooero   toya  2000 - Cor--  p-oroleto        js ttdrn  rebsd  o019801                n   os ta ct~ seals   A  oordeto  lodear nay 0my net Is  -lacldsd Is
.totl popoltioo by age so   onad  thei.        oraiy adfrility rtes..                    tbe houshold for  cetiatital Purposes.
pi.jeotieo paramter  f ol mrnality prpsie  comprise of three Ieto.s assom-             ArerogeR sobre of perute  pot rs-total o-ban, sd total - Averagea.~
ing life  netspa   it  inras-teg n                 ..h tolty's pete -pIta  mineoe   fprsn   e   otioalubn.-Arrloepedcaesa
leel  nb-aAeltopcae    chlliga   P1yas    h   ae                                         datofgP... rePertoy.-    Osllna              dstt. o-.pseaat   sro           o
aet.ts For fertility rote also hans  hthre  levels ossonle  decline In                   c,norpid parts,
f-rtilgtpetter ding to ter--  leveland past family pIisste proess                      Access  to tlnctriitiq   (rsrort of dM IsgI)-tota.1 urlbam. sod  -eal -
E-ob t.n.ety IS then a-egood on          h thm  nine cobisatines of soothiny             Co-votloes1 deellings othoeciityhoiig q                      ...t.r.. p_eetaga
AMd freellisy treads ft tr pejeiti purpoe._                                              o  stool, urban, end rereI dAeelltgsr-spa-iivly.
the hitch rae  seqa  no the danh rats, sad als  th  age s:.trartu ..           - ...  tcyAIOa
ma. ins   . testt.  Thin is euhie-d saly oftar fertility rate  deoline to              Adlnsitd fEsllmeot lotion
she rplacemet 1-v1 of s.it net -oprnetion rice, sh.. ...h g.seetatior                    Feimae  athnol -total, eels and feee-hGeesa  steal1, si   od  aml
of seme  _ePat-  nsa-If a.attly.  Th.s _tasior p..           atsatetaeroleto  aI ges at tIre prI-ary levl u   peaoas   f                                             ste
ostimatd on2the bas~is o! tbe proJeostd eet-et-iatii- of ths Pperoaior                     pieysboiaeppitine;  oralyinlue                            flthi.dree sgd h-
in_th  yer=1.eAte  oeo   ele  o   etlt   ae  orpaepasbut adjnnted for diffee-t leegths of prImary odne..tios; tee
som  leel                                                        enutlenwih utyosa  euralo  aeolmst may seo.ad !10 percent
Yea  asslooty pplte,i  retbhd - Th. pea  shoe attissae.y popoleties                        rie  ae  puitlaacIlte   h                 h  otffrslscoo  a
eiehsbaoaed.hsda  nbl - total, tab.%                                                                                   sed- Feal  - emnsdssbe;stad
Forolaties  enalty                                                     odoct!ino  equre  at.aa        .et   .s  oapprovd pimary isatenties;
Per s. I'.. - Mid-yea  pspul.iet- per square kilo..tr (lOt hoctaron) of                       pts-idem  gee...l vta..l,o   teher training  i-nateei.ns for pupib
usal   f12 to i7 years of eo  erapesd--r tosa  r  gsnersllp
Foe no' n. ogetaleuraliatd -lo  tda   lv  for agiciur    ad                            -Illyodef
enip.                                                                           Vototlonel hsneolleest l-ioo-rrens1 p.-. of -ee-d-ry).- Poo-sio...l ios-it.i..
61oe)   i   reIe    15Fas5d over) asP..e.ntaga of aid-year PtPu-                              dentlp or as deeiments of etoonderyintuios
ietiot; 1960, 1970, evA 1909 dots.                                                          Fural-iaheclo-tiet  n   eodr   Tnit1  -tde-t  -ntoild In
p~oplatio- Githn Rate (pret      oa       suo   rsirnso   os  aid-                             primary ted setondsry level  divided by -amn-  of teachers in the
vest  .poplations for l950-60, 1960-70, aed 1970 7t.                                          dnro oogglosa
Foolato  lrec  Ots reooe)- ahat   daonl  eteb  ats  f nbt  ~P"        Adsl  leeett       o  (rarert) - Litertet edolts (able to reed asd aits)
lacioss for  910-ti, 196070. and 197078.                                             ..P                 t.
PrudeOirt  Oat feetthosand)- Atonal Ive births Per thbn...td ot mid-pe.o               -specetoae of toa   dols populatlo  asnd iS teare red over
CPopulation; 1960, 1970, sud 1976 data.                                                 CONSUMPTION
leds Death Rate lose thousand) - Asol .. deaths per theoseod ef mid-petyanselae.-                                hnca   snsis   P.....geR  .tar  ropr tsmen
p Rplelo;.1960,E19710, and 197h dte.                                                     essetiglesthat eight p                     -ana   nlsdssshlaee hearses and
cross1 Rteredntios se-Av-raa              ..la  of daughtse-   toc ill bea..e.iapeltoa
heo norma  reproductive patted If ab-h       aioe   rettaeseii     r                     Radi tAlvl ls  huoe  euane)-                           types of roi-se  f- to  ,Jd
tility rates;  -eunl   ft- v-ys   -veeges sdio  is' 19         I960, 17g,..nd 197            rodetmegnorlpbi   e  t_sntfppltla    eldsa
FPEiiy Fl Ante -iee               ...AtuI (thousaoda)   Atonatomb1   of acopters              ero-d .se.vt  p    In tobsies and to yeas. Ir  regeoafecn                -aie-a
of birtb-....rrel dvIc'slnde  ",aPio,s of -atiul family pl igProgram.                      sa   nofe;dn   o-eatpesmy set ha roparabla siaamas
fam ly Flstttsa  .-ler    _pore     of married tms   --ecucaeo   eriedcutiahld                                              y.i...og
tast  of child-bearingai  (15-44 pots) who us  birth-toee  dooi..tea   0                 T  rsoe   retesedorltn)-P    evr   o  brodatt
ho  seoia sd  n per  cht  agltttio   e       iT  ..V macses i   ara t,
Fen AoND NUTRITION                                                                            Inspre ,lioatontj.   i  Yper thouan -o.tteueiss         loste  vrg ofrTeot-i.ff. .-
loden cf Pond1 Predsetion per_Ioito (1969-7F1i10) - ledes of pests.pit.sneoal                 tie   ocf"diy  ,~ geners  iterestd npseepapir", deue  aSh   ath   ioilp
p-edneties of nIl food toediim    penegteslde   cd aed f sad aad                            ict-tos. devoted primeety tc estdorig Rce..    some   It is cassidarad
in ocenlenat poe bass.  ioamodtiesovo   polne- ged  (g. anar                        obo "-daily' if it epsae- at leas  tent time   ssb
italsad of ous-e  whith se  adibll. and rnse   arat   nedofsad                           Ios  unlAtoec   e   515erta-sc    ntes                                  eo
toats  sn .lud .d)         Pgett  prdntteI    I of eahtosp  sbsd0                           tfeketa Sold du-ieg the pear, is-iuding   estu   It dries-ia tiesm
nelnlaeeg   rdnerpoc  sihes   961-6), 1970, and 10PM data,
Pe  ole  upyoleito   (p--ot of rsisss)- Compoted fro                              and  thile aste..
esergy sqoles1st of set tod  -cplies available to tontep Pet  s pita                lABOR FORCE
Per dy,  Available sopplie_ enepoIs  do-stto pr-dn-tta. impo,:P, les                   PTaI Labor Forte (tho-nado   - REosnetasly attireprsn.  inoudieg
e_portat  end thasges Ir stok, e.N        pl       cueai-1mafed, seeds,                  esdfre   o   snlydbternithselr,soae,an
qoantitte  used in feud Process.i-,  adlone  is diet            tihio.  Rauio-            Deiti..  o  at n  cio..       trie   areso        oesbsle; 167. l9PS sad
metR  -er  eacteated by PAF base  o  phyitelogiesI needs toe norma    ti-                1y97 are
city cad heolcb ....side-Iul  -nvieean,l t                  bpr r. hdy eetght, ate      aae tes)-Fmlelbrir-a   oe  taso    ellbrtre
ned .t. disteshuties of pops.ia-e, sod allowig 10 pseoson fortat  et                   mtinir  peen)-Iborfoetofrig                            oforetry,   lbasin   sad
hcnnrnld Rvel,  961-b. 17,ai   97  aa                                               feiegh an pseceetage of totsi lb- forte; 1960. 1970 and 1978 dtr.
Poeteis sppy  f pe e(gram  Per dsy) - ProteIn cotest of Per capita                   onty(ece)-Lbrftet   iig   osreio  aanatdrm
re  spply of Food per day.tat aupply of food indfnd as abs.-   t-                      se   locc,cter ad gen es peresstvge of stal. aIct- fete; 1960,
qut_rts for oil c_otoln entaJiehod 01 CttA provide o.               ttu                 1970 aed  7tyP'dts
allost  of If geam   of total prostoie Per dy ned 20 gRams  fanimal and                yrticpto    ae(otn) - total eels, and female - Pa-siripastes  -
pclsepoen   fehiob if grams  -hoad he enis- prtein. T"hree sod-                          tohisiy rtes- ore cmpod as totel, eels,and femal  laho- fercaa
Ird .ar   loe  chat thos  ofP    -rm  of tocaI l potoi sod 23  esoc                 pervs oef totalI, mat  no  femIo  oplalo  of nluassepseri-ly;
etina  peoeit a  an  yncag  foethe  ol,poue  by PAO Io the Third                16,  90 d          10  dc,   hs  ar  lIl pTo           tpstustsslia
tendRoa  Surrey; 1961-b95y,t..   1971                                                                                           I nodiip 1977..tdacot.
Fe ldioroni  nryfe anisel_ eel. Anisef,,          - Pen --to anpplp of food de-          ag-as  st-tcur  of the populactios,cod bon  tim .trend.  A fam  ..Li-
riced from  anloas ed pule .In gram  Por dsp; 1961-65, I970 aed 1977 dana              Ecnma c p5p51ate foam national tosetet.
ago group 1-A yoara, to ehild-s  in this a-ge tolP;  Tce  _toidevlop lo.tne
rets_ data deri-d fromlift tables; 1960, 1970 end 1977 dota. SLNOME DISTRIBITI0SN
ecosecyat Birth                                            Peroenease ~~~~~~~~of Private STrr (botb jit tec h sad hind) - Rete.ived bp richest
Cite lop              (yearn) -ll   Averag  nuh- of Yrare of life realisig              ofbuabl,
Infant O_etality R-t (For tbon...nd) - At-no  d-shb  of inatsndet ... yea-                O~TTTOS   fOP
ofeope-       bocohit-ite                                                                 Petimetad Absolutei F:oerc Incoelel(S)erats-uhesorrl-
Atet oSestoe  (otet05gopltin   - total. urbee,y and rutsl- -b 1
f pu                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~Aslteporpmot   ee t  tha  iteelvl sa    hobaeiia
tooober,tptoylo totel,ora  ad -  meal).t ottb tnnen blat ose-t-erf           d       "I'rltIe...slyadeqoste  dirt PIn. enctie1 uo-fnod reqoisamner  Is not
cater noypto  ii ucloden trenred anef see asters or noteented ho 5 anoosiaminctod  eFfordeble.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-iI  .f-dbl.
ote _uhcItotfro   pr-tectd  sobohlsa, ep          -gs   n   -citary tells) as         foiatd         __asv   FoversyIoa   eo  f0   e   eis    nbaaAma
r-u-ibde,-d    bses,l ~imply... that she      ..  thote hoets  ocmoeof. the1 boos.o.        leve   ith sd1u-t-oa   her hiigao  -ti of living Is urbanasa
do tot Irate to  protdadseprtoatPert on        day it frtcbieg the                        alco   'elco   oeieit Pvryirn   ee  eres     os
rural - unhat o  people  total,  shen, sd-rural)toned-b eso-ls
Ateyso  tpE...   an..       it  epclt   ouasua                eoeah-                                                     etoi.ad-Jfltt  lvs
Pee   o   sid   I   o  stuvsdOeoe.rt   oothusetor                                                           rteolaysendtestesorems
of   55  eortaan  cet-wctbyttr-du   sytems or sbe ..r ofOitr1f
pOt prlites erA  sctalIer issesl-iot-iEnuinol.S..1  .t.Di~.i



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars)
Share of GDP at
Actual                Annual Growth Rate (I)                                   Market Prices (Current Prices)
1979         1974    1975      1976    1977      1978   1979           1960   1970   1975   1978   1979    1980
($l=Esc. 49.8)                                                             _                       _             (Projected)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                    19,744          0.7    -3.7       9.0       5.6     3.2       3.7       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                   2,341         -1.8    -2.7       1.5   -10.0       4.0       5.0        22.7   16.1   14.1   11.6   11.9   11.4
Industry                                      6,853          4.0    -9.3       4.3     10.4       3.3      3.7        34.5   37.3   38.9   33.4   34.7   36.0
Services                                      9,034          0.8      1.6    15.8       6.6      2.5      2.3         35.4   36.2   37.9   46.6   45.7   44.5
Consumption b/                               17,426         10.3      1.2      3.1      3.3       1.1     0.9         87.8   83.3   96.1   88.7   88.3   86.8
Gross Investment                              4,173         -6.1   -45.7      30.5    28.8    -4.7    -4.7            18.5   23.5   16.3   23.1   21.1   21.7
Exports of GNFS                               5,165        -15.7   -13.2       4.8      6.8    14.6    27.4           16.6   23.4   19.6   19.9   26.2   27.4
Imports of GNFS                               7,020          4.8    26.7    17.5    13.1    -1.8          5.8         22.9   30.2   32.2   31.8   35.6   35.9
Gross National Savings                        4,303        -35.4   -39.2      13.7    28.4    16.9    32.4            12.2   16.7    9.3   18.9   21.8   22.0
Prices
Rate of Inflati-n                                         27.4    20.4    18.3    27.3    22.1    24.2
Exchange Rate c/                                          25.4    23.6    30.2    38.2    43.9    49.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                               Annual Data at Current Prices f/                     As Percent of Total f/
Tmports                                                                                                               1973   175   1977    1978   1979
Capital Goods                                           761      565       607   1,211   1,375    1,545            20.515 14.5   24.4   26.2   24.0
Intermediate Goods                                    2,635   2,185   2,431    2,442   2,498   2,998               58.4   56.1   49.2   47.5   46.6
Fuel and Related Materials                              575      621       696      715      808   1,249             6.0   16.0   14.4    15.4   19.4
Consumption Goods                                        677      522      595      596      567      644           15.1   13.4   12.0   10.8   10.0
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f)                       4,648    3,893   4,329   4,964   5,248   6,436               110.1  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Exports
Agricultural Products                                    369      324      312      334      376      489           18.8   16.8   16.5   15.6   13.6
Wood and Cork Products                                   366      306      351      364      376      570           14.8   15.8   17.9   15.6   15.9
Textiles, Clothing and Footwear                         684       577      533      602      783   1,193            30.4   29.8   29.6   32.5   33.2
Machinery and Tra-sport Equipment                       290       254      230      301      325      426           13.2   13.1   14.8   13.5   11.9
Other                                                   569      474       396      426      549      916           22.8   24.5   21.2   22.8   25.4
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                       2,278    1,935   1,822   2,027   2,409    3,594             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                                   1975=100
export Price Index                                        99      100      106      142      173      224
Import Price Index                                       91       100      112      144      178      236
Terms of Trade rodeo                                     109      100       95       98       98       95
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                         As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Current Receipts                                          77.8    93.2   127.1   173.6   212.2   264.3d/            23.0   24.8   27.2   27.9   27.7   26.9
Current Expenditures                                      76.5   102.6   153.3   182.1   238.5   302.2              22.6   27.3   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7
Current Surplus/Defirit (-) of the State                   1.3    -9.4   -26.2    -8.5   -26.3   -37.9               0.4   -2.5   -5.6   -1.3   -3.4   -3.9
Capital Expenditures (Net)                                 7.1    12.4    19.3    34.5    39.1    42.7               3.4    4.4      5.0    6.4      5.0    4.3
Net Financing Requirements                                 5.8    21.8    45.5    43.0    65.4    80.6               1.7    5.8    9.7       8.0     8.4    8.2
Financing Needs                                            8.3    17.4    48.9    44.7    75.8    97.1               2.4    4.6   10.4    7.2    9.7    9.9
Debt Amortization                                        -2.5       4.4    -3.4    -1.7   -10.4   -16.5              0.7     1.2    0.7    0.3       1.3    1.7
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPIUT PER WORKER                                                    TOTAL LABOR FORCE e/
Annual
In Thousands                         Percent of Total         Growth Rate(%)
1974     1977    1978      1979           1974   1977   1978   1979          1978-79
Agriculture                         1,300   1,263    1,187    1,174            34.5   33.4   31.8   30.9           -1.1
Industry                            1,307    1,250    1,283    1,330           34.7   33.0   34.3   35.0             3.7
Services                            1,160   1,273    1 266   1,294             30.8   33.6   33 9   34 1            2.2
Total                             3,767   3,786   3,736   3,798             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0             1.7
a/  At market prices.  Sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Statistical discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
c/ Exchange *-ate siuce February 1980 US$l=Esc. 47.7.
d/  Estimated.
e/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
f/ Data for years before and after 1975 are not fully comparable because of a revised
definition of intermediace and capital goods.



ANNEX I
-23 -                                                  Page 5 of 5
SAIANCE OF PAY1ENTS AdD FXTFRNAI ASSlSTANCS AND DEBT
(Amountu in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prieto)
Ac tuat
SUiPIRY 01 SALANCEOF PAYMFITS                1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   197i
E:.p,rts (F.O.B.)                         1,843  2.238  1,936  1,790  2,001  2,379  3,59;
Imports (F.O.B1.)                             45,4277  3,606  3,965  4 ,533  4,7R7  ofiLlS
Trade Balance (X-M)                       -902 -2,039 -1,670 -2,175 -2,532 -2,408 -2,42'
Net N.on-Factor Service                   67    -74   -170        54      82    276    531
Tourism Receipts (Cross)                (550)  (513). (360)  (327)  (403)  (592)  (94-I)
Rerource  -,1ance                         -635 -2,113 -1,839 -2,121 -2,450 -2.132 -1,89'
Net I,,-sstm-nt In.ome ;/                    86    129    -14   -133   -179   -329   -431
Net Stassfers b/                         1,097  1,111  1.037    964  1,134  1,635  2,47!
Balance on Current Account                  348   -873   -817 -1,290 -1,495   -826   +151'
Direct Foreign Investment                   110    109    122       51      52      56      4'
Public MLT LoanS
Disbursements                            158    153    231    229    425  1,382    74!
Anorti.ation -                            74      68      78      63      83      97    191
Net Disbur-emnt                       .      84      85    153    166    342  1 ,83    TRI
Other MLT Loans
Net Disbursements                                                228    165    422    39f
Short-Tern Capital and Errors
and Omissions                            135    -32    -89       105    -30    202    36f
Other Capital (N.E.I.)                    -332     156    -58    612    607  1,036 -1,418
Changes in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
t- - Increase)                        -345    554    688    128    359   -103    -91
Official Reserves
Cross End of Year cl                   2,839  2,354  1,534  1,301  1,391  1,880  1,951
Of vhich:  Gold                        1,163  13193  1,136  1,125  1,025  1,009  1,020
Fo-eig. E.cha.sg           1,641  1,125    390    166    361    871    930
Act.sl
GRANT AND LOAt CO7MMITMENTS                                                                         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Official Grants and Crant-lik,              -       -        3      -       -       -      -    Total Debt Outstanding snd
Disbursed                    1,346  1,358  1,750  2,314  4,120 5.317
P.blic MSLT LosDG                                                                                   Of which:  Public              723    825  1,005  1,4i8  2,772 3,392
3kRD                                      -       -       -       36      74    131    143   Interest on Fublic Debt              22     35      37      i6    115   230
IDA                                       -       -       -       -       -      -       -    Repayments on Public Debt           68     78      63       43     97   191
Other Multilateral                        -       -       -      123      87     63      69   Total Public Debt Service           90    113    100    1.9    212   421
C-o-r-monts                               -       20      65      96    195    743    134   Other MSLT Debt Ser-cie              140    215    157    3:12    385   483
Suppliers                                 -       27      35    1643   119)   608)   354! Totl MKLT Debt Service               230    328    257    41;1    597   904
Financlal Markete                         -      413      2              *0         )       I BURDEN ON EXPORT, RON-FACTOR
Public   loans   Tn. i ,e / I                     -460                                         _________9____7_______5_45____
Total Public MItT L09  5  I                        46      10      4       475  15        700   SIRiCtS AND 51  1K2R0
-RE'ITANSCES (1)
Actual Debt Outstanding on Decen-er 31, 1979
EXTERNAL DEBT                             Disboreed Only                            Percent        Public Debt Service                 2.0    2.9    2.9    3.7    4.1   5.5
.eRD                                        63                                       1.2         Total t16LT Debt Service             ..    8.8    7.4   11.8   11.4  11.8
Other Multilateral                         285                                       5.4         Average Terns of Public Debt
Governments                              1,224                                      23.0           (Grant Elesent)                  13.3    9.4   15.3   18.4    6.2   4.E
Suppliers                         -        292                                       5.5         Interest as 7 Prior Year
Financial Markets                        1,528                                      28.7           Public DO6D                              4.8    4.5    6.6    7.9   8.3
Prioate Non-Carnanteed Debt -            1.925                                      36.2         Amsrtization a Z Prior Year
Total Public and Private M6LT Dent         5,317                                     100.C           Public DOsD                              10.8    7.6     0.3    6.7   6.9
IBRD Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed                       42.2   39.9   35.6   32.2   36.1  63.1
IbRD DO5D as  ruPblic Debt          -
Outstanding and Disbursed        5.8    4.7    3.5       2.2    1.3   1.9
IBRD Debt Service as 2
Pubic Debt Service               6.9    5.6    6.1       ..4    3.4   3.1
at Largely interest pay.en-ts.
bI2  Largely  -orkers r- ltsaoces.
I/  told, National  Slcntiou:  5 ecial Drawing Rights, 35 per fine troy ounCe and cnva -ted to US dollars at crrent ratses.
Dreenber 1979 stock of 27.13 million o. nces would give about Sll billion. -slord at $550 per ounce.
d/  Debt service an a ratio of e irnings from exports, non-factor services and worker' -emittances.
e/  Does nct include Central Ban  borrowings.
Europe, Middle East and North Af- ica Region
..ot -Osilable,.                                                                                                                     September 25, 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of October 31, 1980)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No. Year       Borrower      Purpose             Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed   57.5                    -
1301     1976  Electricidade
de Portugal      Power               36.0                2.3
1334     1976  Republic of
Portugal         Highways            24.0               14.5
1432     1977  Banco de Fomento Development
Nacional          Finance            50.0               13.7
1541     1978  Republic of
Portugal         Water Supply        40.0               39.5
1559     1978  Republic of
Portugal         Education I         21.0               20.9
1603     1978  Republic of        Agricultural
Portugal          Credit             70.0               70.0
1649     1979  Quimica de         Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.   Modernization       58.0               47.8
1700     1979  Republic of
Portugal         Highways II         40.0               40.0
1701     1979  Republic of        Small- and
Portugal          Medium Industry   45.0                44.5
1793     1980  Republic of
Portugal         Education II        40.0               40.0
1853     1980  Republic of
Portugal         Forestry a/         50.0               50.0
1874     1980  COMETNA            Industry a/          33.4              33.4
1875     1980  SOREFAME           Industry a/         10.6               10.6
TOTAL                                575.5              427.2
of which has been repaid             41.8
TOTAL now outstanding                533.7
Amount sold                    2.6
of which has been repaid    2.1       0.5
TOTAL now held by Bank b/            533.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                       427.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1980)
None.
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 25 -
ANNEX IS
Page 2 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24,
1976; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
While the loan is now fully committed and almost fully disbursed,
project completion was expected to be delayed more than one year because of
organizational changes in the Power Authority (EdP), revisions in the
project scope and in the list of goods. These factors delayed initial
procurement under the loan, and the start of significant disbursements. EdP
is being reorganized with emphasis on decentralizing management and merging
municipal and small private electricity undertakings within EdP. Mergers
are expected to be completed by 1981. After a poor year in 1976, owing to
bad hydrological conditions, EdP's earnings in 1977 improved. In 1978, EdP
generated only 4 percent internal cash in spite of a 50 percent increase in
tariffs, owing to large increases in interest rates. EdP estimates that it
has generated 18 percent cash in 1979 and will be close to a self-financing
level of 30 percent in 1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I Project; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquistion (which is now
completed) caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants; however, work on the study and
master plan is now approaching completion.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1432 - Banco de Fomento National Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. The loan is fully committed on schedule
and disbursement is satisfactory.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June
6, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works on the pipe plant have been completed. A solution
is being sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem despite recent
improvements. Studies are behind schedule due to delays in hiring
consultants. The Government has recently changed the management of EPAL;
the new management is taking measures to expedite project implementation.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing-Date: December 31, 1981.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including
management training centers, are underway. Equipment lists are ready and
procurement of equipment is proceeding. Sites for project institutions have
been acquired after initial delays. Technical assistance is being recruited
on schedule, the study on the teaching of science and engineering is
completed, the manpower study is underway. A general public service
moratorium on hiring personnel (to contain the growing budget deficit) has
delayed design work. This, combined with initial site acquisition problems,
has caused a slippage of about one year. Recent remedial actions and
understandings, however, should improve implementation of civil works.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is
practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey and for the fish stock assessment survey. These surveys are now
underway. Project implementation is progressing although it is about a year
behind the original schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58.0 Million Loan of March
14, 1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of consultants is completed; detailed engineering
work is underway. Procurement of equipment has started.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Engineering for highway rehabilitation is underway.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45
Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
A revision in the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for
Industrial Estates (EPPI) has been made to ensure better returns on
investment. The institutions involved are gearing up to process subprojects
eligible for the SMI credit line.
Loan 1793 -Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: July 10, 1980; Closing-Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established.
Implementation of the equipment procurement aspects of the project, staffing
and staff development plans are proceeding on schedule; however, civil works
designs are behind schedule, but are expected to be completed on schedule.
Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under development. Implement-
ation of the technical assistance program will begin on schedule.
Loan 1853 - Forestry Project; $50 Million Loan of October 2, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: 'September 30, 1986.
Work on effectiveness conditions and on procurement is underway.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Project; $33.4 Million Loan
and $10.6 Million Loan of October 2, 1980; Effectiveness date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
Viability contracts for COMETNA and SOREFAME have been signed and
thus the special conditions of effectiveness have been met. Work on other
conditions and procurement is underway.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
PORTUGAL
SECOND LOAN TO BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project:          April 1979-March 1980
(12 months)
(b) The agency which has prepared the project:             Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and             April 1979
date of first Bank mission to consider the              and
project:                                            September 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:                March 31, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:                    November 14, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                         June 1, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
There are no special conditions of effectiveness.
2. Measures to be Taken by the Borrower Include;
(a) Implementing an agreed export-promotion plan, allocating
50 percent of the proposed loan to export-oriented projects,
and conducting a study of industrial restructuring needs in
preparation for Portugal's entry into the EEC (para. 38).
(b) Making best efforts to reduce private sector company arrears
on accounts in default on December 31, 1980 by 20 percent per
annum in each of the following three years (1981-1983) and to
keep arrears on other loans at not more than 6 percent of the
outstanding loan amounts; making best efforts to contain
public sector arrears at end-1980 levels and to gradually
reduce them (para. 40).
(c) Maintaining a maximum debt/equity ratio of 6:1 (para. 41).
3. Measures to be Taken by the Government Include;
Making the contributions to BFN's equity, as needed, to help BFN
maintain the 6:1 debt/equity ratio (para. 41).



