Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.3116-PO
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON A
SECOND LOAN TO BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
December 12, 1980
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1976 (yearly average)  1 US dollar               =  30.00 escudos
1 escudo                 =  0.033 US dollar
1977 (yearly average)  1 US dollar               =  38.23 escudos
1 escudo                 =  0.026 US dollar
1978 (yearly average)  1 US dollar               =  43.90 escudos
1 escudo                 =  0.023 US dollar
1979 (yearly average)  1 US dollar               =  48.90 escudos
1 escudo                 =  0.020 US dollar
1980 (April)            1 US dollar              =  49.31 escudos
1 escudo                 =  0.020 US dollar
1980 (October)          1 US dollar              =  50.42 escudos
I escudo                 =  0.02 US dollar
(In the report the exchange rate used for conversions is
1 US dollar = 50.0 escudos).
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BFN                     Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD                     Caixa Geral de Depositos
EDP                     Electricidade de Portugal
EEC                     European Economic Community
EFTA                    European Free Trade Association
EIB                     European Investment Bank
FGRC                    Fundo de Garantia de Riscos Cambiais
(Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund)
GFCF                    Gross Fixed Capital Formation
IERR                    Internal Economic Rate of Return
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
PORTUGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION ............................................                     1
II. THE ENVIRONMENT .                                                                 1
A. The Economic Setting                ..                                     1
B. The Manufacturing Sector                ..                                 2
C. The Financial Environment.                                                5
III. BFN's STRUCTURE..                                                                 7
A. Legal Basis and Ownership               ..                                 7
B. Board and Committees                ..                                    8
C. Organization                 ..                                           8
D. Management and Staff                ..                                    8
E. Objectives ..                                                              9
F. Policies ..                                                               9
C. Appraisal and Supervision Procedures   .                  .10
H. Promotional Activities    ..11
I. Procurement..    13
J. Disbursement    ..14
IV. BFN's OPERATIONS .14
V.  BFN's FINANCIAL SITUATION .15
A.  Financial Position and Profitability    .                .15
B. Debt/Equity Ratio    ..16
C. Audit   . .16
D. Portfolio and Arrears    ..17
VI. PROSPECTS .......                                                                20
A. The Environment    ..20
B. BFN's Role   ..21
C.  Projected Profitability and Financial Position .21
D. Projected Debt/Equity Ratio    .                     .22
VII.     THE LOAN - ITS OBJECTIVES,  JUSTIFICATION AND FEATURES ....                  22
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .24
This report was prepared by Messrs. William J. Hayden, Abdul Haji and
Geoffrey Gowen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Structure of Lending Rates Established by
Banco de Portugal ........................................   25
2.   Balance Sheets - 1975-1979............................. .  26
3.   Arrears as at December 31, 1979 .........................  27
4.   Actual and Projected Operations, 1977-1984 ............   28
5.   Projected Income Statements - 1980-1984 ....... ........... 29
6.   Projected Balance Sheets - 1980-1984 ......... ......  30
7.   Projected Cash Flow Statements - 1980-1984 .................. 31
8.  Expected Disbursement Schedule    .                .32
9.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ... 33



APPRAISAL OF
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
PORTUGAL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) for a second
IBRD loan of $100.0 million. The report is based on an appraisal mission
to Portugal in March/April 1980. The major objective of the proposed loan
is to support the development of medium sized economically viable projects
in the private and mixed sectors with emphasis on fostering industries with
export potential. The Bank's first loan to BFN of $50.0 million was made
in 1977 and was fully committed on schedule by December 1979.
1.02     BFN was incoporated in 1958 as a Portuguese development bank.
Since then it has established itself as a sound development bank and has
built up a strong appraisal capability, particularly for industrial proj-
ects. Its major problem is the substantial amount of arrears in its port-
folio due mainly to the profound changes in the economy resulting from the
revolution of April 1974.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economic Setting I/
2.01     In the five-year period preceding the revolution of April 25,
1974, Portugal's real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7%, sustained
by a relatively high rate of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), averag-
ing some 21% of GDP, and accompanied by a strong export growth of 9% p.a.
in real terms. In 1973, GDP at market prices was US$11.4 billion equiva-
lent, total GFCF, US$2.3 billion equivalent, and exports, US$1.7 billion
equivalent. The 1974 revolution resulted in profound changes, reflected in
substantial shifts in the ownership of capital assets; some sectors (basic
industry, energy, water, banking, insurance, public transport and communi-
cations) were nationalized by the State and others, such as agriculture,
were partially (but crucially) affected. In addition, Portugal's revolu-
tion brought with it rapid social and political change, labor unrest and a
rise in people's expectations. The oil price increase of end-1973, the
1/ See "An Updating Report of the Portuguese Economy" (Report No. 2214-PO
dated September 7, 1978) for a comprehensive picture placed in histori-
cal perspective, of the problems confronting the Portuguese economy
both at the macro-economic and the sectoral levels.



-2-
return of more than half a million Portuguese from the overseas colonies,
and the recession in OECD countries created further stresses on the
economy's ability to maintain private consumption and meet the investment
needs of the economy. By 1977 there were substantial deficits on the
external current account (US$1.5 billion) and the domestic budget (7% of
GDP), and levels of inflation increased to more than 20% while open
unemployment amounted to over 300,000 (about 8% of the labor force).
2.02     In growing recognition of the need for structural change to adjust
to the new environment, and to the consequences of continuing high deficits
on its external accounts, the Government in 1977 began to draw up a program
with the assistance of the IMF to "dampen" the rate of economic growth and
switch expenditures to production for export. Focussing on increased
interest rates, stringent credit policies and exchange rate adjustments,
the policy package implemented enabled the current account position to be
reduced from a deficit of US$1.5 billion in 1977 to US$800 million in
1978. This was achieved with only a 2% drop in the growth of GDP (from
5.3% in 1977 to 3.2% in 1978). These policies were continued during 1979
and resulted in further improvements: commodity exports grew at about 25%
in real terms (to US$3.5 billion), imports increased at only 5% (to US$6.0
billion); workers' remittances expanded by 46% (to US$2.4 billion) in 1979,
all leading to a small surplus in the external current account of about
US$150 million despite the substantial oil price increase during the year.
B. The Manufacturing Sector 1/
2.03     Manufacturing is the leading sector in the Portuguese economy and,
in 1978, accounted for about 38% of GDP, 24% of employment, 37% of total
investment, and almost 90% 2/ of merchandise exports. Manufacturing
output grew at an average annual rate of around 11% between 1963-1973, and
led the rapid growth of the Portuguese economy during this period. This
growth was concentrated in a relatively small number of the large enter-
prises that enjoyed privileged access to credit and to foreign technology
while the vast majority of small and medium enterprises were given little
assistance and few incentives to modernize and expand. The growth was also
attributable to low wages, low prices of raw materials and energy,
preferential markets for Portuguese exports in the former colonies and
protective tariffs. The resulting industrial structure proved
1/ A detailed description of the Portuguese manufacturing sector is given
in the report entitled "Manufacturing Export Industries in Portugal"
(Report No. 1695(a)-PO, dated December 27, 1977). An investment
strategy for the sector focussing on state owned enterprise is
presented in "Portugal - Priorities for Public Investment" (Report No.
2883-PO dated July 18, 1980).
2/ If wines and processed food are excluded the share of exports would
drop to about 80%.



-3-
particularly vulnerable following the 1974 revolution, because of the loss
of export markets, and changes in the structure of domestic markets due to
the redistribution of income.
2.04     On the supply side, labor relations deteriorated sharply immedi-
ately after the revolution leading to strikes, absenteeism, lock-outs and
indiscipline in a number of factories. With the sharp rises in Portuguese
wages, controlled domestic prices and little adjustment of the exchange
rate till 1976, industrial profits fell sharply. Many firms suffered
severe losses which could only be compensated through the liberal provision
of credit through the banking system. These losses could not be reduced
through a reduction in the labor force because of the very restrictive laws
on dismissals. When demand revived, entrepreneurs were not willing to add
new workers, because they could not be dismissed if demand fell. In some
instances there was also the fear that any enlargement of the labor force
might shift the balance within the factory towards control by trade
unions. As a result of these factors many firms remain in serious
financial difficulty creating a serious arrears problem for the banking
system (para. 5.07).
2.05     The post-revolution wave of nationalizations placed the large
industrial groups in the steel, oil refining, chemicals, cement, shipbuild-
ing, tea and tobacco industries under state control. The public manufac-
turing sector now accounts for about 12% of output and 10% of exports.
This action also resulted in "mixed" sector in which the Government
acquired shares in over 1,300 companies, which were owned by banks and
other enterprises that had been nationalized. The state administration had
initially neither the experience nor the organizational mechanisms to deal
with these new sectors cf the aconomy. To compensate for the sluggishness
of private investment that resulted from the prevailing confusion and
uncertainty, the Government since 1976 has embarked on an ambitious program
of public investment in industry, that continues to concentrate on the
SINES industrial zone. It also initiated legislation in mid 1977 to
restore confidence in the private sector. The legislation defined the
armaments, petroleum, petrochemical, iron and steel, fertilizers, and
cement industries as basic national industries reserved to the public
sector; left the private sector free to invest in all other industries;
revised the foreign investment law to provide greater assurance to foreign
investors; eased the laws for labor dismissal; and provided for the finan-
cial rehabilitation of firms faced with a heavy debt burden. The rehabili-
tation legislation allows an economically viable yet financially .roubled
enterprise to obtain consolidation of its old debts, new loans at subsi-
dized rates and other financial and fiscal benefits by committing itself to
certain production, productivity and financial targets. Though investment
climate problems remain (para. 2.08), these actions, together with other
measures, have brought about a considerable recovery of confidence in the
private sector.
2.06     Manufactured Exports.  Manufactured exports (which constitute
almost 90% of total exports) grew at a rate of 12% per year in real terms



- 4 -
from 1963 to 1973, and some 45% of the manufacturing output was exported
though mostly to its protected colonial markets. Leading were the tradi-
tional export industries (textiles, clothing, wine, canned fish, cork and
pulp and paper) as well as metal products and machinery. Exports declined
sharply, however, following the events in 1974, due to the loss of markets
in the former African colonies, the unstable situation in Portugal, and the
recession in the OECD countries to which Portugal exported 78% of its total
exports in 1973. By 1976 exports were 35% lower (in constant dollar terms)
than in 1973. Portugal's export performance has dramatically improved
during the last two years, showing growth rates in volume terms of 26% in
1978 and 28% in 1979. This improved performance resulted largely from
better utilization of existing capacity and reflected the Government's
short-term stabilization measures which have improved export competitive-
ness (para. 2.07). However, the Portugese economy remains relatively
inward looking. Exports as a percent of GDP were only 13% in 1978 but rose
to 17% in 1979. This is low, however, compared to other peripherally
located smaller countries in the EEC. In volume terms, exports in 1979
were only 30% higher than in 1974 and remained concentrated in traditional
industries; 33% textiles, clothing and leather; 14% wine, processed fish
and vegetables, and 16% cork products, pulp and paper and wood industry
related chemicals. Metal working and engineering industry products were
only 18%.
2.07     Cost Competitiveness and Incentive Structure.  Between the end of
1973 and the middle of 1977, cost competitiveness of export industries
deteriorated by 10% to 20% as a result of sharp cost increases and a
decline in productivity. The incentive structure was strongly biased
toward production for home markets based on the arbitrary tariff structure
inherited from the previous regime and the further imposition of import
surcharges, which were not offset by significant export subsidies. Since
mid-1977 due to the devaluations of the escudo, a decline in real wages,
and improvements in productivity, cost competitiveness of exports has
improved by 60-100% relative to 1973 with respect to Portugal's principal
competitors (Spain, Greece and Italy). Import surcharges have been sub-
stantially reduced, and rationalization of the tariff structure is
planned. In July 1980 the Government introduced a new investment scheme of
fiscal (various tax reductions, accelerated depreciation and amortization)
and financial (interest rate reductions, capital grants) incentives that
seeks to promote the expansion of certain priority sectors, growth in less
developed regions and the development of exports. As part of an effort to
improve the present administrative procedures, it also provides for one
contact point between the investors and the Government, which in most cases
would be the institutions providing term financing. There is still a need
for an increased effort and a more coordinated approach from Government
institutions in promoting industry, restructuring for entry into the
European Economic Community (EEC) (para. 6.02), and developing export
promotion activities (para. 6.01). For the past year the Ministry of
Industry has been conducting a comprehensive study as part of the prepara-
tion for Portugal's entry into EEC (para. 3.21). The Bank has financed two
studies that address this problem in the textile and engineering industries



-5-
(para. 3.22) and provision is made under this loan to extend BFN's
participation (para. 3.21).
2.08     Investment Climate.  Despite the recent improvements in the
investment climate real fixed capital formation is only 2% above 1974
levels reflecting continued sluggishness of private investment in the face
of uncertainty about whether improvements will continue. Further progress
is needed in several critical areas. One is in labor relations where
equitable provisions clarifying the rights and duties of workers and
management still need to be established covering working conditions,
dismissals, absences from work, and the role of workers' commissions. The
next important area is payment of compensation for nationalized companies.
Although a framework to compensate owners has been established, issuance of
specific regulations has been postponed, and the proposed long repayment
period and low interest rates of the bonds to be used substantially reduce
the compensation. Finally, the area of price controls where, despite
substantial relaxation over the last four years, the existing price control
administration remains slow, bureaucratic, and often unpredictable.
C. The Financial Environment
2.09     The principal institutions of the Portuguese financial system are
Banco de Portugal (The Central Bank), nine commercial banks, Caixa Geral de
Depositos (CGD) which is the major savings institution, Instituto
Financeiro de Apoio as Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas(IFADAP), the
specialized institution for agriculture and agro-industry credits; and
Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN), the major industrial development bank
which is the Droposed intermediary for this loan. Additionally, there are
some 200 minor savings and cooperative banks, three foreign and commercial
banks whose activities are mostly concentrated on foreign trade operations,
and a number of insurance companies and small financial institutions. All
Portuguese owned financial institutions, with the exception of the small
savings banks, were nationalized in 1975. CGD has always been public. The
nationalized banks retain, nevertheless, considerable autonomy.
2.10     In 1978, US$2.8 billion was used for the following types of
investment financing: medium-term loans (1-5 years) 49%; long-term loans
(more than 5 years) 21%- self-financing, 20%; other (includes shares and
external credits) 10%. i/ About 30% of this investment was for
manufacturing including mining. BFN and CGD, which are the main
institutions which financed industrial term investment, held respectively
38% and 32% of the total medium and long-term loans to the manufacturing
sector at the end of 1978. BFN is the leading institution best equipped to
appraise industrial projects, a capability that has been strengthened by
the Bank's first loan to BFN (Loan No. 1432-PO). Commercial banks, whose
authority to lend for one year was extended to ten years by legislation in
1977, now account for 30% of medium and long-term industrial loans. Their
1/ Working capital rolled over is estimated at an additional 5 to 10% of
the total.



industrial term lending will grow, particularly to small and medium size
projects where project appraisal capability is less critical, because of a
legal requirement to devote part of their longer term deposits (greater
than 180 days) to medium and long-term credits, and because of the changing
structure of deposits which requires commercial banks to secure the higher
yields permitted on longer term lending. There remains a general need to
improve domestic resource mobilization for long term investment, especially
to provide equity financing. Recently the Government has enacted a law
providing for the establishment of private investment companies with
authority to provide medium and long-term credit facilities and equity
investments.
2.11     Interest Rates.  The interest rate structure, which was tradi-
tionally low before the revolution, was permitted to increase only slowly
after the revolution despite accelerating inflation. The six increases
which took place between April 1974 and the beginning of 1978 were not able
to eliminate the gap between rates of interest and inflation. As part of
the stabilization program agreed with the IMF, a new and significant
increase in the interest rate structure was introduced in May 1978 which
was applied to all outstanding deposits and loans (Annex 1). Though
inflation abated from the 1977 level (27%) in both 1978 and 1979, interest
rates have remained narrowly negative. An expected further decline of
inflation in 1980 to under 20% will bring interest rates to positive
levels. The Government does not wish to raise interest rates for fear of
further discouraging private sector investment. Furthermore, Portuguese
interest rates are now competitive internationally is evident from the
present high level of banking liquidity and the slowdown in applications
for term lending.
2.12     Interest Rate Subsidies.  Prior to July 1980, the structure of
interest rates was modified by subsidies from the Central Bank funds
depending upon the purpose of the loans. Established in 1977 when interest
rates began to rise and when the investment climate was unfavorable, these
subsidies were designed to stimulate industrial investment and channel it
to activities with significant impact on balance of payments and employment
creation. Although subsidies affected about 10% of loans generally, BFN
estimates that about 40% of its borrowers were eligible for an interest
subsidy reflecting the fact that it finances higher priority projects.
Under the new fiscal and financial investment incentive system introduced
in July 1980 (para. 2.07), project eligibility and the level of subsidy are
governed by a project's export competitiveness, and its location in regions
and sectors with high priority. BFN estimates that on average the interest
subsidy aspect of the scheme will reduce the effective interest rates by 2%
to 8% depending on the nature of the investment. It will be financed
directly from Government revenues and therefore will not have any impact on
the interest rate structure and resource mobilization capability of
individual banks. The new scheme is to be welcomed; it appears likely to
have a significantly greater impact than the past scheme at a time when



- 7 -
investor confidence needs bolstering, and does so in a way that signifi-
cantly removes possible distortions in the cost of capital.
2.13     Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Central Bank must authorize all
foreign borrowings, which it does with a minimum of formalities. With a
few exceptions, all foreign exchange transactions must also be channeled
through the Central Bank. Investors are required to finance with foreign
borrowings (or foreign lines of credit through financial intermediaries)
80% of the cost of foreign equipment purchases exceeding Esc. 30 million
(US$600,000 equivalent). To reduce the adverse impact on industrial
investment of the exchange risk associated with foreign borrowings, in a
context of high uncertainty on the timing and magnitude of future deprecia-
tion of the Escudo, the Government established in February 1977 Fundo de
Garantia de Riscos Cambiais (Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund - FGRC) under the
supervision of the Central Bank. The Fund covers the exchange risk
associated with foreign borrowings that finance projects of national
interest. It is financed by payment of a fee representing the difference
between the domestic long term interest rate (presently 22.25%) and the
rate on foreign borrowings and the commission (2-3%) for the intervening
financial intermediary. The rate of interest paid to the Fund ranges from
5.25% to 13.25% depending on the interest rate on the foreign borrowing.
Coverage is extended for only one year at a time and is renewable at the
option of the Fund. Although the viability of the Fund has not been
evaluated, it is intended to be self sufficient and to date its annual
revenue has been sufficient to meet its annual guarantee payments. The
first BFN loan was covered under the Fund and the Government intends to
include this loan.
iII. BFN'S STRUCTURE
A. Legal Basis and Ownership
3.01     BFN was established as a development bank in the form of a joint
stock company by a decree-law issued in November 1958 and began operating
late in 1959. This statute was later modified by Decree-Law 513/77 dated
December 14, 1977 to implement a new management system in line with the law
nationalizing credit institutions under Decree-Law No. 729-F/75. No change
was made in BFN objectives except that resulting from the decolonization of
the former overseas territories where BFN had been operating. BFN is
presently drafting a new statute with the objective of codifying existing
law and no major changes are proposed.
3.02     BFN was nationalized in March 1975 in conjunction with the
nationalization of other domestic credit institutions. Prior to
nationalization, the Government was the major shareholder, holding over 30%
of BFN's equity. The Portuguese commercial banks were also large share-
holders. Compensation to former private shareholders has not yet been paid
(para. 2.08).



-8-
B. Board and Committees
3.03     BFN's Board of Management consists of six members including the
President. The members are full-time officials and are appointed for
renewable terms of three years by the Council of Ministers on the proposal
of the Minister of Finance. The Board is empowered to manage the organiza-
tion and meets in regular session at least once a week and in special
session whenever convened by the President. The Board is jointly res-
ponsible for the overall management policy but in addition, each of the
five ordinary members is responsible for various departments within the
organization. Five of the six members have been in office since 1976.
3.04     The Commission of Control is composed of three members, two
appointed by the Minister of Finance and one appointed by the staff of
BFN. The Commission is responsible to ensure that the laws and regulations
are being complied with, to review financial statements and budgets and to
draw the attention of the Board to all relevant matters. The Commission
may be assisted by outside experts and has engaged Price Waterhouse and Co.
to audit the financial statements (para. 5.05).
3.05     The Minister of Finance is empowered to exercise a broad supervi-
sion of BFN, he receives its annual budget and must approve its annual
report and accounts. In addition, the Commission of Control submits an
annual report for his review.
C. Organization
3.06     BFN operates through its Head Office located in Lisbon and three
regional offices in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra. In addition, BFN has a
branch office in each of the 17 district capitals on the mainland as well
as on the islands of Azores and Madeira. At present, all projects and
credit appraisal work is undertaken from the Head Office but BFN has
recently decided that projects and credits under Esc. 10 million
(US$200,000) will be appraised by the regional offices as a first step to
give greater emphasis to the regional character of its operations. The
regional offices are responsible for supervising the branches in their
district. The branch offices' main activity is the collection of deposits
from local residents and disbursement of funds to borrowers on the instruc-
tion from the Head Office. Recently, the branches have become actively
involved in the collection of arrears (para. 5.13), and in project
promotion (para. 3.19).
D. Management and Staff
.
3.07     BFN's President and the five Directors have extensive experience
in banking and Government service and continue to provide effective leader-
ship and competent management. BFN's middle staff are qualified,
experienced, and highly motivated professionals and are responsible for the
efficient operation of the organization.



- 9 -
3.08     At the Head Office, BFN has a staff of about 540, of whom 172 are
professionals. The district and branch offices employ another 250
persons. Substantial strengthening of the professional staff has taken
place since the first BFN loan, particularly in the Development Service and
Data Processing Departments. The Development Services Department was
expanded to enable BFN to make a more extensive appraisal of its projects,
particularly the economic evaluation. Additional professional staff were
engaged for the Data Processing Department to install and operate a
computer system. Initial problems have been experienced with the system in
processing the deposits accounts but these are being resolved. When the
computer system is fully operational, it should help considerably in
improving the present inadequate management information system especially
in connection with arrears (para. 5.13). BFN is adequately staffed and
does not experience undue difficulties in recruiting and retaining quali-
fied professionals except for engineers with broad management background.
E. Objectives
3.09     BFN's objectives are broadly defined in its Statute as promoting
the development of the country and assisting the Government in implementing
its economic and financial policies. To achieve these objectives, BFN is
empowered to grant medium- and long-term loans, provide guarantees,
subscribe to equity, bonds and securities and to undertake other appropri-
ate operations. BFN is authorized to operate in the private industrial and
agricultural sectors and in the public sector. Emphasis is placed on
stimulating savings and channeling them to productive investment.
F. Policies
3.10     Though BFN has no formal policy statement, most of the topics
usually covered by such a statement are included in its Statute. The
Statute provides that BFN is to finance technically and economically feasi-
ble investment projects of economic importance. The guidelines established
for lending operations require that the cash flow generated by the project
should be sufficient to meet debt service, equity should constitute at
least 33% of total asset value after completion of the project and that
adequate security representing at least 70% of the loan should be secured.
In line with the present Government's policy, BFN has recently "informally"
adopted the following investment priorities: (a) exportoriented projects
and credit for export of capital equipment; (b) industrial restructuring in
preparation for entry to the EEC; (c) development of poorer regions; and
(d) establishment of skilled labor-intensive industries. BFN continues to
maintain its autonomy in reaching investment decisions.
3.11     No provision is made in BFN's Statute governing the diversifica-
tion of risk but BFN has maintained a prudent policy in this respect with
regard to loans to private and mixed enterprises. They have also main-
tained a wide distribution of funds in the private industrial sectors with
a maximum commitment of 5% per annum in the machinery sector. However, in
the public sector, BFN has some significant exposures. The largest



- 10 -
exposure is with the Electricidade de Portugal (EDP), the national electric
company (Esc. 10.8 billion or US$216 million). This exposure represents
about 20% of BFN's portfolio and has increased by about 3% since 1976. EDP
is a competently managed company with a sound financial policy and has
obtained in 1976 a sixth Bank loan for power development. Debt service on
the BFN loans is paid on schedule. BFN's exposure with the Portuguese
Railways (CP) and Setenave (shipyard) at Esc. 3.2 billion and Esc. 1.6 bil-
lion respectively (US$64 million and US$32 million) represent about 5% and
2-1/2% of BFN's portfolio. These companies are in serious financial diffi-
culties and payment of debt service is in arrrears. BFN's loans are
covered by guarantees, usually from the Government. Proposals for the
settlement of future debt service for these and other public companies are
outlined in paragraph 5.09.
3.12     BFN's Statute requires that three reserve funds be maintained:
the legal reserve fund, the special reserve fund and the guarantee reserve
fund. In addition to these mandatory reserves, BFN maintains a provision
for doubtful debts which represented over 8% of BFN's portfolio as at
December 31, 1979. The auditors are satisfied that this provision,
together with reserves, Government and other guarantees and mortgages, are
adequate to cover BFN's exposure.
3.13     Under the first Bank loan, BFN was required to maintain the medium
and long-term debt/equity ratio below 6:1. BFN's debt/equity has remained
well below this target and had a ratio of 4.5:1 at December 31, 1979.
G. Appraisal and Supervision Procedures
3.14     BFN makes three types of loans:  loans for capital investment,
referred to as direct credits, loans to enterprises to finance production
and sales on credit to other Portuguese firms, and loans to producers of
Portuguese goods for export. These latter two types of loans, jointly
referred to as indirect credits, are usually made only to heavy equipment
manufacturers and building contractors (para. 3.17). Equity investment is
marginal and usually consists of investments in Government companies such
as Parempresa (para. 5.13). No expansion in equity investment is planned
in the immediate future.
3.15     The appraisal of direct credits is undertaken by the Development
Service Department. This Department has been strengthened substantially in
the past three years and now has a staff of 54, including 37 professionals,
in the Head Office, and 20 staff including 11 professionals in the three
district offices. BFN's appraisal of projects has improved considerably
since the first Bank loan. Appraisal is undertaken by a two-man team, a
technician and economist/financial analyst, which reviews on site the
company's proposals and prepares a report. The appraisal report is
reviewed in detail by the Section Chief, Department Director and at least
two Board Directors. The Credit Council reviews all loan proposals and may
approve loans under Esc. 20 million ($406,000). All other loans must be
approved by the Board. In the case of large public sector projects



- 11 -
co-financed with other financing sources, BFN relies to a great extent on
the studies carried out by the sponsoring agencies and technical minis-
tries. In reviewing these reports, BFN maintains an independent judgment
on the projects' suitability for BFN financing. Government guarantees are
sought when the financial position of the entity requires it.
3.16     The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) is calculated for all
projects over Esc. 150 million ($3 million) and for all Bank financed proj-
ects over Esc. 30 million ($600,000) and a preliminary IERR, using standard
indices, is undertaken for other BFN projects estimated to cost between
Esc. 50 million and Esc. 150 million ($1.0-3.0 million). Projects with an
IERR of less than 10% are not considered for financing. BFN has rejected a
number of projects on this ground particularly in the public sector. In
addition, BFN staff has been playing a leading role in conjunction with
Banco de Portugal in implementing the IERR evaluation for major projects
financed by the commercial banks. In order to further strengthen BFN's
evaluation process, an understanding was reached during negotiations that
BFN will calculate the IERR for all manufacturing, mining, agro-industries
and fish processing projects estimated to cost Esc. 100 million ($2.0
million) or more.  For other projects (above $500,000 cost) a simplified
benefit cost ratio based on the Government's new incentive scheme will be
calculated. This system is satisfactory for projects of this size. BFN
capability to evaluate the sales potential and marketing aspect of export
projects will be improved under the export investment promotion program
(para. 3.20).
3.17     A substantial part of BFN's lending, 43% of approvals or 28% of
disbursements, is for indirect investment credits. The processing of these
credits is undertaken by the Special Credit Operations Department which has
a professional staff of ten. The appraisal is generally limited to check-
ing the adequacy of the security offered and the creditworthiness of the
borrower.
3.18     Project supervision is undertaken by the Control and Inspection
Department in addition to its other major duties of following up on arrears
and evaluation of the creditworthiness of proposed borrowers. The supervi-
sion and collection of arrears is undertaken by a professional staff of 20,
including 6 engineers, assisted by 20 support staff. Improvements have
been made in supervision during the past three years and BFN is fully
informed of the status of all its major clients. Financial and technical
assistance has been provided to a number of its clients. However, BFN is
aware that further improvements are required in supervision if the present
arrears situation is to be brought under control.  A new Director has
recently been appointed and is presently involved in reorganizing the
Department with a view to further improve the monitoring of its borrowers
(para. 5.13). BFN has agreed to continue this reorganization.
H. Promotional Activities
3.19     BFN's promotion activities are undertaken by two departments, the
Promotional Service Division of the Development Services Department and the



- 12 -
Economic Studies Department. The Promotional Services Division was
established two years ago and the staff of two professionals undertake
direct promotion of BFN services to industry in close cooperation with
BFN's regional managers. This represents a marketing approach to invest-
ment banking that is relatively new in Portugal and has expanded BFN's
contacts with private firms in the investment community and helped to
maintain its pipeline at a time of investor caution. The Economic Studies
Department is concerned with general promotion and the conduct of sectoral
and special studies. Prior to the revolution this department pursued an
active program to develop projects (often with foreign investors) through
in-depth sector studies that enabled BFN to develop a detailed knowledge of
firms and the problems in specific industries. Significant developments in
automobile parts and shoe industries resulted from this effort. This
department's effort now emphasizes general promotion including organizing
trade missions, promoting contact between Portuguese and foreign firms, and
general statistical surveys, but specific industry promotion capability is
hampered by a lack of qualified staff.
3.20     BFN feels that there is a need to expand its promotional activi-
ties particularly at the present time when its major constraint to expan-
sion is the lack of economically viable projects. A Bank consultant with
the appraisal mission reviewed BFN's work in this field and formulated a
number of proposals for strengthening this activity with special emphasis
on the promotion of export-oriented investments. BFN reviewed these
proposals and prepared an Action Plan to revitalize its project promotional
role particularly in the export field. The Plan provides for expansion of
the staff of the Economic Studies Department and training of promotional
and appraisa'l staff in export promotion and evaluation of export marketing
aspect of projects. The Plan was reviewed during negotiations and will be
conducted in four six-month phases commencing January 1, 1981. The first
phase will focus on several promising industries (cork products, ferrous
and non-ferrous metal foundries, telecommunications/electronic equipment)
selected by BFN from the Government priority list. Particular emphasis
will also be placed on resin derivatives based on prior research undertaken
by BFN which indicated that a substantial opportunity exists to upgrade
existing exports. In addition to making contacts with industry, BFN
anticipates that the promotional effort will involve the provision of
technical assistance on a selective basis and the preparation of pre-
feasibility studies, drawing on the resources of Portugal's technical
agencies (FFE, IAPMEI, LNETI) and consultants. BFN will prepare an evalua-
tion of the program upon the completion of each stage, which together with
the plans for the succeeding phase will be submitted to the Bank for review
and comment. In the context of its review of sub-projects, the Bank will
provide technical assistance to build up BFN's institutional capability to
advise and evaluate various aspects peculiar to export-oriented projects.
To enable the Bank to review in detail a larger number of export projects
than would otherwise be the case, BFN has agreed to allocate 50% of the
proposed Bank loan for export-oriented projects in the form of a best
efforts clause. The definition of export-oriented projects in this context
is projects for which it is expected that the equivalent of not less than



- 13 -
20% of output to be generated by the project can be exported. Appraisal
reports will be expected to present adequate proof of exportability (market
study, prior successful exports, orders in hand, etc.).
3.21     Another major activity which BFN plans to promote is industrial
restructuring in preparation for Portugal's entry to the EEC in 1983
(paras. 6.02 and 6.03). In support of this objective BFN has agreed to
prepare a study by September 15, 1982, which will identify specific firms
that need restructuring assistance and provide the basis for an action pro-
gram to assist those firms. The precise scope and focus of the study will
be decided in the light of the findings of the Ministry of Industry study
on the impact of Portugal's entry to the EEC, which is now in its final
stages of preparation (para. 2.07).
3.22     The focus of the above study will also take into account the
findings of the studies recently commissioned by the Government that
address the restructuring problems in two subsectors. One is a study of
the textile sector, financed by the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization and the Bank under the Small and Medium Industry Development
Project (Report No. 2312-PO, dated April 24, 1979, para. 5.30), which is
now being reviewed. The other is a study of the engineering industry whose
timing and terms of reference have been agreed to in the context of the
Mechanical Industries Project (Report No. 2846-PO, dated May 30, 1980,
paras. 2.15-2.17). Bank funding up to a level of $1.0 million could be
made available under this loan for financing the foreign exchange cost of
the investment promotion program and this study. Bank financing would
provide for about 8 man/years of consulting services at an estimated cost
of $9,500 per man/month including fee, overhead and expenses and the cost
of foreign training for BFN's staff. However, it is expected that the
Government and BFN will secure alternative financing from the EEC and/or
the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and if so, the $1.0 million will
be used to finance sub-projects.
3.23     In order to improve the diversification of its portfolio, BFN
proposes to undertake a pilot study to identify and support investment
opportunities in small industrial enterprises in a predominantly agricul-
tural area. Assistance will be given in preparation of projects and
special arrangement for financing and guarantee terms will be designed to
suit the local conditions.
I. Procurement
3.24     BFN has no published guidelines on procurement.  In the case of
large investment projects (about $2.0 million) BFN's clients ask for bids
from qualified national suppliers, generally on the basis of specifications
prepared by engineering firms. In the case of smaller projects, quotes
from several sources are collected. In all cases, BFN's engineers check
the appropriateness of the production method, the reputation of the
supplier and the competitiveness of the prices against their own experience
with similar projects before approval is given. If BFN's engineers are not



- 14 -
satisfied that prices are reasonable the borrower is required to secure
additional quotations. These procedures are satisfactory.
J. Disbursement
3.25     Disbursements are made only after invoices and other documents are
checked and after it has been verified that the goods being paid were those
orginially approved as part of the project. The disbursement procedures
are satisfactory.                                                                         a
IV. BFN'S OPERATIONS
4.01     BFN's main operations involved term lending which accounted for
over 97% of its portfolio on December 31, 1979. The granting of guarantees
and equity investment represents only a small percentage of BFN's
operations.
4.02     During the two years ending December 1979, BFN's loan approvals
increased in nominal terms by 75% to Esc. 28.4 billion ($568 million),
representing an increase of about 8.5% in real terms, but the number of
loans decreased 15% to 593. The average size of the loans made during the
same period doubled to Esc. 47.9 million ($0.96 million) or an increase of
about 32% in real terms. The fall in the number of loans processed was
divided equally between the industrial and agricultural sectors and to a
large extent was due to the increased activity of the commercial banks in
term lending, particularly to the small and medium sized projects (para.
2.10).
4.03     The division of BFN loan amounts between loans for capital invest-
ment and indirect loans to finance production has remained relatively con-
stant at about 65:35 of approvals. BFN estimates that its 1979 investments
were divided equally between the public sector and the private sector
(including the mixed sector). This represents a considerable increase in
the percentage of approvals to the public sector over the 1976 level of
about 25%. A major part of the public sector lending was in the form of
indirect loans for the acquisition of capital goods.
4.04     The geographic distribution of BFN's investment is skewed in favor
of the three industrial districts on the western coast. Over 80% of BFN's
approvals in 1979 were for projects in Lisbon (61%), Setubal (12%) and
Porto (8%) and this reflects the 1977 and 1978 pattern. The balance of
investment of less than 20% was committed in the remaining fifteen
districts and the two offshore islands, where about 57% of the population
reside. BFN now proposes to undertake a pilot study with a view to
securing a more equitable geographic distribution of its portfolio (para.
3.23).



- 15 -
4.05     The percentage of Portugal's gross fixed capital formation (GFCF)
financed by BFN has fallen from a peak of 8.8% in 1975 to 6.8% in 1978.
Preliminary figures for 1979 indicate that this trend has been arrested and
that a marginal increase of 0.1% was achieved. The increased activity of
the commercial banks is responsible in part for this decline (para. 4.01).
A further consequence of this, together with inflation, has been a decrease
in the amount of loans made by BFN under Esc. 25.0 million ($0.5 million)
from 20% of its investment in 1977 to 10% in 1979 and a corresponding
reduction in the number of these loans from 604 to 455.
4.06     BFN's processing of the previous Bank loan was satisfactory.  The
loan was committed on schedule after an initial delay in effectiveness and
an extensive industrial and geographic distribution was achieved with some
87 sub-projects. Seventy of the sub-projects were under the free limit of
$600,000 and accounted for $13.0 million or 26% of the loan. The 17
sub-projects above the free limit had satisfactory IERRs ranging from 16%
to 40%. About 50% of the loan was committed in the building materials,
paper products and electro/mechanical sectors. The projects financed were
estimated to provide about 2,600 new jobs and provided work for a substan-
tial number of idle or underemployed workers in the enterprises involved.
In addition, a number of the sub-loans financed replacement of obsolete
equipment.
4.07     In addition to its own portfolio, BFN has a managed funds
portfolio of about Esc. 4.8 billion. The main components of these funds
are loans from EFTA and Government funds made available to Portuguese
nationals displaced from the former colonies. BFN undertakes the
appraisal, supervision and collection of debt service for these funds and
receives a management fee of 0.75%.
V. BFN'S FINANCIAL SITUATION
A. Financial Position and Profitability
5.01     BFN's balance sheets for 1976-1979 are shown in Annex 2.  BFN's
total assets increased from Esc. 33.3 billion ($1,052 million) 1/ in 1976
to Esc. 62.4 billion ($1,182 million equivalent) by the end of 1979. Loan
portfolio, which constitutes about 82% of its assets, increased from
1/  Rate of exchange $1 = Esc. 31.69.



- 16 -
Esc. 28.4 billion ($900 million) 1/ to Esc. 51.2 billion ($1,024 million)
over the same period. About 50% of the growth has been financed through
the increase in demand and time deposits (which more than doubled from Esc.
11.6 billion in 1976 to Esc. 26.0 billion by 1979), foreign debts (Esc. 8.0
billion) and the remainder through increases in local borrowing and equity.
5.02     BFN's profitability continues to be relatively low:  income before
provisions and taxes which amounted to Esc. 1.1 billion (i.e. 28.2% of
average equity) in 1976 increased to Esc. 1.3 billion (18.8% of equity) in
1978 but reduced again to Esc. 1.1 billion (14.1% of equity in 1979). This
was due to a reduction in BFN's average spread on borrowed resources from
4.4% in 1976 to 3.9% in 1978 and to 2.3% in 1979 and reflected the higher
interest payable on deposits given in part at the expense of the bank's
spread. Administrative expenses have remained at a satisfactory level of
between 0.6% and 0.8% of BFN's total assets.
5.03     About 80% of BFN's operating profits until 1978 and 70% in 1979
were retained as provisions against losses. Net income in 1979 amounted to
Esc. 156 million (2.1% of average equity) compared to Esc. 103 million
(2.7% of average equity) in 1976. Slightly more than half of BFN's net
income was paid out as dividends in 1977-1978, representing a return of
about 1.6% of share capital in those years. BFN's overall profitability is
low compared to other DFCs and reflects the Government decision to limit
the interest spread of banks in conjunction with increased interest rates
to borrower during the past three years (para 6.06).
B. Debt/Equity Ratio
5.04     BFN's total debt (i.e. including short-term borrowings) to equity
ratio increased from 5.5:1 in 1977 to 6.8:1 in 1979. Under the first Bank
loan, BFN is required to keep its medium and long-term debt within six
times its equity. The ratio under this definition, though increasing from
4.0:1 in 1976 to 4.5:1 by the end of 1979, has remained well within the
agreed limit. Financial projections indicate that BFN is likely to require
additional capital sometime in 1981, to keep within the present limit which
is proposed to be continued under the second loan (para. 6.08).
C. Audit
5.05     BFN has engaged Price Waterhouse and Co. to undertake a full audit
of its annual accounts since 1976. This audit has been satisfactory.
Agreement was reached during negotiations for BFN to continue to use an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank for future annual audits of
its accounts.
1/ Rate of exchange $1 = Esc. 31.69.



- 17 -
D. Portfolio and Arrears
5.06     BFN's portfolio at December 31, 1979 amounted to Esc. 60.5 billion
($1,210 million). BFN had the financial risk on Esc. 55.8 billion (92%)
and the balance of Esc. 4.7 billion represented funds managed by BFN on
behalf of the Government. BFN's risk portfolio was made up of loans (98%)
and equity investment (2%).
5.07     The confusion and uncertainty in the public and private sectors
and the loss of the former colonies resulting from the 1974 revolution has
created a serious arrears problem for the Portuguese banking system
including BFN. More recently, the restrictions on credit, introduced in
1978, resulted in additional problems for firms depending on the local
market, particularly those connected with the construction industry. A
summary of BFN'F arrears is shown in Annex 3. The arrears position has
continued to det. iorate each year, rising from Esc. 2.8 billion (9.9% of
portfolio) in 1976 to Esc. 8.1 billion (15.2% of portfolio) in 1979. Loans
representing 20% of the principal outstanding are affected by arrears. The
one encouraging feature is that the arrears, as a percentage of BFN's
portfolio, decreased from 16.7% in 1978 to 15.2% in 1979 and the percentage
of the number of loans in arrears decreased from 28.6% to 24.5% during the
same period. This reflects an improvement in the economy and indicates
that the peak may have passed.
5.08     BFN's classification of arrears is unsatisfactory as it does not
analyze arrears in accordance with the sector ultimately responsible for
non-payment. Loans made indirectly 1/ to the public sector and former
colonies are classified as private sector and private companies controlled
or operated by Government are classified as public sector. A preliminary
reclassification of arrears as of December 31, 1979 by sector ultimately
responsible for payment is summarized below.
Esc. billion
Loan portfolio                            53.2         100
ARREARS
Public sector                              2.9           5.5
Ex-colonies                                3.1           5.8
Private sector                             2.1           3.9
8.1          15.2
1/ These loans are made jointly to the manufacturer and user of capital
equipment. Under the loan agreement the two parties are jointly and
severally liable for payment but in practice BFN must look to the user,
usually a public sector company, for payment.



- 18 -
5.09     In the public sector, four major public companies are responsible
for over 80% of the arrears as of December 31, 1979. However, the arrears
position in this sector is understated as BFN has made substantial resched-
uling with little prospect of receiving payment under the revised schedule.
In all, about ten major companies in the public transport, shipping and
shipbuilding sub-sectors are involved. The majority of these companies are
in serious financial difficulties and depend upon Government subsidies to
meet their debt/service obligations and in some cases to meet part of their
operating expenses.  BFN has provided direct and indirect loans to these
companies to meet their capital investment program, usually subject to the
guarantee of the Government. BFN estimates that the debt service required
to meet the 1980 liability of companies in default in the sector is about
Esc. 2.0 billion ($40 million) compared to the payment of Esc. 1.1 billion
received in 1979. Current Government plans provide for the rehabilitation
of the four major public sector companies, two during 1981 and two in 1982.
In the light of these plans BFN has agreed to use its best endeavors so that
by December 31, 1981, the total public sector arrears shall not increase
beyond those outstanding as of December 31, 1980, and shall make all efforts
to achieve progressive improvements thereafter.
5.10     The ex-colonies arrears are in respect of loans made directly and
indirectly to private companies and local government agencies in the former
colonies prior to their independence in 1974. About 57% of the loans were
made in Angola and 40% in Mozambique. BFN has a Government guarantee for
about 30% of the loans outstanding but the Government is unwilling to pay
this amount at present as it wishes to have the original lender involved
with the Government in any future negotiations. No progress has been made
in negotiating a settlement of these accounts during the last three years.
These arrears are projected to grow by about Esc. 0.5 billion per annum and
BFN is unable to take any action on its own to settle these accounts. In
view of the Government wishes to maintain BFN as a party to possible future
negotiations, no covenant is recommended but the matter will be reviewed
with the Government during project supervision.
5.11     BFN's major arrears in the private sector have their origin in
industrial unrest, the price control and labor laws enacted after the 1974
revolution and the general slowdown of economic activities in a number of
subsectors. Over 60% of the arrears in this sector are in respect of loans
made prior to 1975. In addition, the majority of loans in arrears were made
to firms involved in the Government's programs of "State Intervention" and
economic-financial rehabilitation. The "State Intervention" program
authorized the Government to appoint managers to firms with serious finan-
cial or labor problems. Nine of BFN's major borrowers with arrears of Esc.
0.6 billion ($12 million) 1/ are involved in this program and five of them
have now been returned to their former owners and discussions are under way
for the return of the others. The economic-financial rehabilitation program
provided for viability contracts whereby economically viable yet financially
troubled firms may obtain consolidation of their existing debts, new loans
1/ Some indirect loans to the public sector are included in these figures.



- 19 -
at subsidized rates, and fiscal benefits, by committing themselves to
certain agreed targets. About 460 enterprises applied for viability con-
tracts prior to the closing date of December 31, 1978 and about 130 were
signed by March 1980. Included in this process are about 75 of BFN's bor-
rowers with arrears of about Esc. 1.4 billion ($28 million). 1/ An integral
part of these programs is that the firms are protected from legal action by
their creditors while involved in the program.
5.12     In May 1979 the Government established a private company,
Parempresa, with the Portuguese banks as shareholders to administer the via-
bility contract program and to extend the program to other viable private
firms in financial difficulty. Parempresa is the successor of Parageste,
which formally administered the viability contracts, and commenced opera-
tions in October 1979; in March 1980 it had a professional staff of four-
teen. The firm is authorized to reschedule existing debts, grant interest
rebates and recommend exemption from taxes as part of a program for the
financial rehabilitation of private firms. The process of completing a
viability contract is very complex and time consuming as the agreement of
the owner, member banks and the Government must be secured before the con-
tract can be finalized. BFN projects that about 50% of their borrowers who
applied for viability contracts will finalize their contracts in 1980, 25%
in 1981 and the remaining 25% in 1982. Under law, the principal creditor
was responsible for preparing the initial proposal for the old viability
contracts under Parageste, and Parempresa itself is responsible for prepara-
tion of new viability contracts. As BFN is the principal creditor in very
few of these cases, they are limited in the action they can take to effect
improvements in this area.
5.13     To deal with the arrears on other accounts, BFN is presently
reorganizing its procedures under the direction of a new Director appointed
in December 1979. Responsibility for loan supervision by district has been
delegated to individual staff, statements of account are being sent to bor-
rowers and branch managers one month before payment is due, bank managers
contact the borrowers prior to due date, and if payment is not received on
time, the manager is required to contact the borrower immediately. BFN
agreed to continue this reorganization until all branches are covered. In
addition, legal proceedings are being used more actively with the work
undertaken by BFN's legal department instead of private lawyers. Borrowers
in arrears are charged an additional 2% interest and lose all benefits under
the Government's investment incentive scheme. In 1981, BFN plans to com-
puterize its borrowers' accounts and this should assist in providing more
prompt information and detailed analysis of arrears for management. BFN
believes that progress can now be made in reducing the private sector
arrears and during negotiations agreed on a best efforts basis to reduce
arrears on loans presently in arrears by at least 20% in each of the three
years 1981-83 and that arrears on all other loans shall, at no time, exceed
6% of the outstanding loan amounts. In addition, an understanding was
reached with BFN and recorded in Agreed Minutes of Negotiations that they
1/ Some indirect loans to the public sector are included in these figures.



- 20 -
will continue to implement the reorganization of the collection of arrears
and supervision of projects.
5.14     Over 95% of BFN's equity portfolio of Esc. 1.1 billion (1.8% of
total assets) is invested in nationalized companies and companies operating
in Angola and Mozambique. The value of this portfolio depends ultimately on
the compensation to be paid by the Government (para. 2.08) and on future
negotiations between the Portuguese Government and the Governments of Angola
and Mozambique (para. 5.10). We plan to continue to discuss this matter
with the Government but do not propose any covenant.
VI. PROSPECTS
A. The Environment
6.01     Medium and Long-Term Outlook.  The success of short-term stabil-
ization policies in 1978 and 1979 (para. 2.02) should lay the basis for
increased growth in Portugal in the next decade. A gradual policy of
economic expansion should be possible and it seems likely that Portugal can
double its per capita income by the year 2000, implying an average annual
growth rate of 4.5% per year for the economy over this period. During the
next five years (1980-84) a GFCF increase at an annual rate of 6% is needed
to sustain this growth rate and exports need to expand at 8% per year. This
is achievable but requires exploitation of Portugal's comparative
advantage. In general terms, the strategy for the eighties must center on
the expansioti of investment in light industry, agriculture, tourism and
housing construction, in which the private sector will play a primary role.
The development of basic industrial projects which yield adequate economic
rates of return on the basis of the price and marketability of their output
(together with the modernization and expansion of supporting infrastructure)
is also needed. In this context, manufacturing, which must also grow at 6%
per year, will continue to play a leading role, based substantially upon the
expansion of exports. This requires exploiting specific natural resources
(wood and agricultural products), Portugal's proximity to Western Europe,
North Africa and the Middle East, and most importantly the continued avail-
ability of skilled labor at relatively low cost. Its ability to do so will
be crucially affected by the prospects -- and pitfalls -- posed by
Portugal's prospective entry into the EEC to which 57% of industrial exports
are already directed.
6.02     EEC and Restructuring.  Under various agreements with the EEC com-
mencing in 1973, Portugal has reduced its tariff barriers and since 1977
gained full entry for its manufactured products except for recently negotia-
ted quotas on certain textiles, clothing and paper products. The December
1979 protocol, reflecting Portuguese concern that its industry is not yet
ready to compete freely in the EEC, suspends further tariff reduction until
formal entry into EEC, now scheduled for 1983. Thereafter Portugal expects
to have seven to ten years to bring its external protective structure in
line with the EEC. A few of Portugal's most promising export industries,



- 21 -
primarily in the wood products and related industries (cork, pulp and paper,
wood-based chemicals) are relatively efficient now and need to focus
primarily on developing markets. But for the balance, both "traditional"
exporting industries such as processed fish, wines, textiles and clothing as
well as the growingly important engineering sector which now accounts for
18% of exports (from 6% in 1963), growth of exports and survival in home
markets requires measures which will significantly reduce costs and increase
efficiency.  These measures include:  upgrading and expanding raw material
availability (in agro-industries); plant modernization, and consolidation of
smaller units, especially in textiles, furniture and agro-industry, and the
provision of certain types of infrastructure and service industries. There
is a pervasive requirement for upgrading management, especially at middle
levels. Also needed, particularly in the engineering industries, is export
marketing assistance to identify foreign market opportunities and assist
firms to adapt and improve product design for the more sophisticated markets
to which Portuguese exports must increasingly be directed.
6.03     For restructuring to take place and lead to cost competitiveness
within the EEC, a strong infusion of financial and technical assistance will
be required. The program and institutional framework for these purposes,
especially for smaller and medium-sized industry where the greatest needs
are felt, is largely in place though it does not always work well because of
problems of coordination, red tape, lack of adequate salary structure, etc.
However, the ultimate success of the effort rests on the capability of the
Government to maintain an effective incentive structure (para. 2.08) and to
improve the investment climate (para. 2.09).
B. BFN's Role
6.04     BFN plans to maintain its position as the leading institutional
development bank in Portugal and to stem the erosion of its share of lending
of GFCF (para. 4.05). BFN projects to increase its share of GFCF financing
from 6.9% in 1979 to 7.3% in 1980 and to maintain it at 7.5% from 1981
onwards. The two proposed promotion studies (paras. 3.20 and 3.21) should
enable BFN to increase its financing of export and restructuring projects
particularly medium-scale projects. In addition, a reduction of the
liquidity position of the commercial banks is expected towards the end of
1980, which should enable BFN to recover some of its share of small-scale
projects.
C. Projected Profitability and Financial Position
6.05     BFN's Projected Operations Income Statements and Balance Sheets and
Cash Flow Statements for 1980-84 are shown in Annexes 4 through 7. As a
result of the expected increase in BFN's level of operations and a slightly
higher debt-leverage, operating income (before provisions and taxes) as a
percentage of average equity should improve steadily from about 15.3% in
1980 to 20.0% by 1984. BFN however expects to continue to retain sub-
stantial portions of its earnings (about 61% overall) as provisions against
losses. Net return on BFN's equity is, as a consequence, not expected to
increase beyond 3.0-3.5% over the next five years.



- 22 -
6.06     BFN's spread has been declining since 1976 (para. 5.02) and is
projected to stabilize at about 2%. The projections are conservative and
annual interest of Esc. 270 million on loans in arrears, for which BFN has
not adequate security, has not been included. Inclusion of this amount
would increase the spread by about 0.3%. The commercial banks have an
advantage over BFN in this regard as interest is not paid on current account
balances. During negotiations we reviewed with the Government measures to
improve BFN's spread and an understanding was reached to increase BFN's
spread on the proposed second Bank loan by 0.25% to 3.0%.  It was further
agreed that other measures to improve BFN's profitability would be reviewed
in the future.
6.07     Total assets are expected to increase from Esc. 70.2 billion
(US$1.4 billion) in 1980 to Esc. 132.3 billion (US$2.6 billion) by 1984.
The growth in BFN's loan portfolio is expected to be financed mainly through
increases in time deposits and additional foreign currency borrowings.
Foreign debt outstanding is expected to increase from Esc. 16.4 billion
(26.6% of total debt) in 1980 to Esc. 45.1 billion representing 38.6% of its
total borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1984.
D. Projected Debt/Equity Ratio
6.08     BFN's current long-term debt is limited to six times its equity
under the Loan Agreement for the first Bank loan. BFN's overall financial
position has generally remained satisfactory and its profitability and
growth have been generally in line with our expectation at the time of the
first Bank loan. On the other hand, the arrears problem continues to be
serious (para. 5.07). During negotiations it was agreed that the present
debt/equity ratio of 6:1 would remain unchanged at present but would be
reviewed from time to time to determine whether improvements with respect to
BFN's profit margin and arrears would permit establishing a higher ratio.
6.09     For BFN to remain within the 6:1 limitation, the projected level of
borrowings over the next five years would require additional equity invest-
ment by the Government of Esc. 1.0 billion ($20 million in 1981), and Esc.
1.5 billion ($30 million) in each of the following three years. Agreement
was reached with the Government to provide the funds necessary to enable BFN
to maintain the agreed debt equity ratio.
VII. THE LOAN - ITS OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND FEATURES
7.01     The objective of the proposed $100.0 million loan to BFN would be:
(a)  to support the development of medium-sized economically viable
manufacturing projects in the private and mixed sectors, with
special emphasis on fostering industry with export potential;



- 23 -
(b)  to assist BFN in strengthening its export investment promotion and
service capability;
(c)  to contribute to Portugal's industrial restructuring in preparation
for entry into the EEC; and
(d)  to improve BFN's arrears position.
4           In addition, the loan would continue the institution building assistance
started under BFNI to further improve its appraisal capability, particularly
in evaluating the marketing aspects and economic return of projects.
7.02     Due to the many internal problems which have affected the
Portuguese economy during the past six years, little preparation has been
undertaken to prepare industry for entry to the EEC. The needs of the
private and mixed industrial sectors for replacement and modernization of
equipment are widespread and the scope for export promotion and development
is substantial. It is essential that action be taken now if Portugal is to
avail of the opportunities that EEC membership will provide. Recent Govern-
ment policy towards these sectors has to some extent created a more favor-
able investment climate. The proposed loan should enable BFN, as the only
development bank in Portugal, to spearhead the necessary changes. The
proposed loan would also complement the Bank assisted SMI Project (Loan No.
1701-PO), which became effective on August 29, 1980, and provided a line of
credit of $33.0 million through the commercial banks for financing SMI
projects with special emphasis on export-oriented and labor intensive
projects or projects in less developed regions.
7.03     BFN is a sound development bank and has performed satisfactorily
under the previous loan. BFN has a significant exposure and substantial
arrears in its public sector portfolio. However, BFN has Government guar-
antees covering the major part of these loans and this problem is expected
to be resolved during the next few years through the rehabilitation programs
under consideration by the Government (para. 5.09). Economic conditions in
Portugal have improved substantially during the past three years and so
there are no special risks associated with this project.
7.04     The proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to finance the for-
eign exchange cost of directly imported goods and services as well as the
estimated foreign exchange component of locally procured imported goods
(estimated at 50% on average) and of locally produced goods (35%) for manu-
facturing projects in the private and mixed sectors receiving direct credits
from BFN. In addition, the loan will cover the foreign exchange cost of
BFN's programs to strengthen export investment promotion and of a study of
industrial restructuring in preparation for Portugal's entry into the EEC
(estimated at $1.0 million). Industrial sub-loans are limited to a maximum
of $5.0 million equivalent and a free limit of $1.5 million. In lieu of
establishing an aggregate free limit, it is proposed that BFN agree to
submit full documentation for between 12 and 15 major projects, whether
above or below the free limit, to the Bank for review.



- 24 -
7.05     The usual adjustable composite amortization schedule is proposed so
that repayments to the Bank by BFN are matched by repayments BFN receives
from its borrowers. The maximum term for individual sub-loan should be 12
years. The latest date for submission of sub-projects to the Bank for
review is proposed as December 31, 1983 and the closing date for disburse-
ment June 30, 1985. Other terms proposed for the loan are those normally
applied to DFC borrowers. The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown
in Annex 8.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with BFN on the
following:
(a) BFN will calculate the IERR on all projects in the manufacturing,
mining, agroindustries and fish processing sectors estimated to
cost over Esc. 100.0 million and a benefit cost ratio based on the
Government's new incentive scheme for all other projects in these
sectors (para. 3.16);
(b) impiementation of an agreed investment promotion plan (para. 3.20),
and study of industry restructuring requirements in preparation for
Portugal's entry to EEC (para. 3.22);
(c) allocate 50% of the proposed Bank loan for export-oriented projects
in the form of a best efforts clause (para. 3.20);
(d) BFN to use its best endeavors so that by December 31, 1981, the
total public sector arrears shall not increase beyond those out-
standing as of December 31, 1980 and shall make all efforts to
achieve progressive improvements thereafter (para. 5.09);
(e)  BFN, on a best efforts basis, to reduce arrears on private sector
loans presently in arrears by at least 20% in each of the three
years 1981-83 and that arrears on all other private sector loans
shall, at no time, exceed 6% of the outstanding loan amounts (para.
5.13);
(f)  BFN will not exceed a debt/equity ratio of 6:1, using the defini-
tion of debt and equity incorporated in the first BFN loan (para.
6.07); and
(g) BFN will submit 12-15 projects for Bank review (para. 7.04).
8.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will
make the necessary contribution to BFN's equity to maintain the 6:1
debt/equity ratio (para. 6.08).
8.03     With agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $100.0 million to BFN.



- 23 -
(b)  to assist BFN in strengthening its export investment promotion and
service capability;
(c)  to contribute to Portugal's industrial restructuring in preparation
for entry into the EEC; and
(d)  to improve BFN's arrears position.
In addition, the loan would continue the institution building assistance
started under BFNI to further improve its appraisal capability, particularly
in evaluating the marketing aspects and economic return of projects.
7.02     Due to the many internal problems which have affected the
Portuguese economy during the past six years, little preparation has been
undertaken to prepare industry for entry to the EEC. The needs of the
private and mixed industrial sectors for replacement and modernization of
equipment are widespread and the scope for export promotion and development
is substantial. It is essential that action be taken now if Portugal is to
avail of the opportunities that EEC membership will provide. Recent Govern-
ment policy towards these sectors has to some extent created a more favor-
able investment climate. The proposed loan should enable BFN, as the only
development bank in Portugal, to spearhead the necessary changes. The
proposed loan would also complement the Bank assisted SMI Project (Loan No.
1701-PO), which became effective on August 29, 1980, and provided a line of
credit of $33.0 million through the commercial banks for financing SMI
projects with special emphasis on export-oriented and labor intensive
projects or projects in less developed regions.
7.03     BFN is a sound development bank and has performed satisfactorily
under the previous loan. BFN has a significant exposure and substantial
arrears in its public sector portfolio. However, BFN has Government guar-
antees covering the major part of these loans and this problem is expected
to be resolved during the next few years through the rehabilitation programs
under consideration by the Government (para. 5.09).  Economic conditions in
Portugal have improved substantially during the past three years and so
there are no special risks associated with this project.
7.04     The proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to finance the for-
eign exchange cost of directly imported goods and services as well as the
estimated foreign exchange component of locally procured imported goods
(estimated at 50% on average) and of locally produced goods (35%) for manu-
facturing projects in the private and mixed sectors receiving direct credits
from BFN. In addition, the loan will cover the foreign exchange cost of
BFN's programs to strengthen export investment promotion and of a study of
industrial restructuring in preparation for Portugal's entry into the EEC
(estimated at $1.0 million). Industrial sub-loans are limited to a maximum
of $5.0 million equivalent and a free limit of $1.5 million. In lieu of
establishing an aggregate free limit, it is proposed that BFN agree to
submit full documentation for between 12 and 15 major projects, whether
above or below the free limit, to the Bank for review.



- 24 -
7.05      The usual adjustable composite amortization schedule is proposed so
that repayments to the Bank by BFN are matched by repayments BFN receives
from its borrowers. The maximum term for individual sub-loan should be 12
years. The latest date for submission of sub-projects to the Bank for
review is proposed as December 31, 1983 and the closing date for disburse-
ment June 30, 1985. Other terms proposed for the loan are those normally
applied to DFC borrowers. The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown
in Annex 8.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with BFN on the
following:
(a) BFN will calculate the IERR on all projects in the manufacturing,
mining, agroindustries and fish processing sectors estimated to
cost over Esc. 100.0 million and a benefit cost ratio based on the
Government's new incentive scheme for all other projects in these
sectors (para. 3.16);
(b) implementation of an agreed investment promotion plan (para. 3.20),
and study of industry restructuring requirements in preparation for
Portugal's entry to EEC (para. 3.22);
(c) allocate 50% of the proposed Bank loan for export-oriented projects
in the form of a best efforts clause (para. 3.20);
(d) BFN to use its best endeavors so that by December 31, 1981, the
total public sector arrears shall not increase beyond those out-
standing as of December 31, 1980 and shall make all efforts to
achieve progressive improvements thereafter (para. 5.09);
(e)  BFN, on a best efforts basis, to reduce arrears on private sector
loans presently in arrears by at least 20% in each of the three
years 1981-83 and that arrears on all other private sector loans
shall, at no time, exceed 6% of the outstanding loan amounts (para.
5.13);
(f) BFN will not exceed a debt/equity ratio of 6:1, using the defini-
tion of debt and equity incorporated in the first BFN loan (para.
6.07); and
(g) BFN will submit 12-15 projects for Bank review (para. 7.04).
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will
make the necessary contribution to BFN's equity to maintain the 6:1
debt/equity ratio (para. 6.08).
8.03      With agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $100.0 million to BFN.



PORTUGAL
Structure, of Ceci_6Raes        hstatihed-l ky-rscs  do Port,11a4
(Effective since Mac 8, 1978)
(In perceentae)
Received bv
the Credit Institution                                                        Mximum Rate ta be  harged h  Credit chticer-
fram Santa de Portugal                                                                    From 180 davs       Prom  1 year to               0ror  2 nears to
or Government         I/     Up Ce 90 days               From 90 to 180 days            ta 1 vear              years                     _5   ars             con  3 ;oars
1.  Ordinary Operations                                                               -  18.25                           18.75                   20.01               20.50                         21.21                  22.21
2.  lavestmest credit for    )                                                                                                                                   TypeI Tvpe 0T                   Le I Tvpe TI        Type l Tpe 11
agriculture and ease-    )                   amnont cf interest rebate                 -                               -                                    10.(0   05.00                 10.75    15.75         11.75    1f.75
factaring industries,    )                   depends opon projects'                                                                            -            12.00    15.00                12.75    195.7;       1 1. 73   If .5 
tourism and inter-           )               economic viability.                                     l-                                        -                      10 56.00            14.75    16.75        15.75    17.75
national transport                                                                                                                                             .00    17.00               16.75   12.75         17.25    19.75
-              ).50    19.00               19.75    1;.;5        20.75    20.75
3.  Credit for storm
da-iuge                                               12.00                            -                              -                        -                 F.50                           0.25
4.  Credit for the re-tructuring             A degree 2/  5.50                                                                                     - _              15.(0                          15.70                  16,,
of econ-ically viable                   B degree 2/  7.0(1                             _                                                       -                13.00                         1/.25                  15.25
enterprises in fianaciai                C degree 2/  2.50                              -                              _                                        12.00                           1?.75                 15.75
difficulty  (in co-juncticn             D degree 2/ 10.50                              -                              -                        -               10.00                           10.75
with viabillzatior agreemcnt)
Poblic ente-prises                                   < 4.00                            -                               -                       -              16.50                        *]7.25                  -18.25
(a)    (b)       (c)
Up tc
yr.  1<r. >2<4yr.                                                                                             (a)     ()      (c)          (a)      (b)     (C)
5.  Export credit 3/                     1st vr. 5.50  5.50        5.50                    -                                                       -          15.00   15.00  15.00          15.75   15.75   15.75
2nd yr.  -      3.50     3.50                     -                              -                                    -     17.00   17.00           -     17.75   17.75
3rd yr.  -       -       2.50                    -                                                                            -     08.00                   -     18.75
4th yr.  -       -       2.50                     -                                                                   -        -     19.00          -              1F.75
6.  Personal Credits                                         -                             -                               -                     27.25                28.25                         29.0O            N,et ... i j'1I,
9eos1cg credit 4/                                                                 Value of the               Cost per square                7 of                                          lomin31 Iccocooc
hb Ildiig                  _ eter                    g-arantee          Time (er)                           Rate
1st sehedule 4.50)During the          -Up to Esc. 1.6 mil,io          -Up to Esc. 11 thousand           85%                 <20                           20.00
2nd schedule 3.50)first five          -From Par. 1.6 millrs          -From Esc. 11 ta 13                802                 <18                           21.5n
)years of           to Ec. 1.8 sileon             thousard
3rd schedule 2.50)the  Irae           -Over But. 1.8 s111ice         -Over Ear. 15 theusand             75,                 q15                           22.00
1/ This amcuat is designed to insure that the credit institution receives am interest rate equivalent to that for erdianry
operations.  This annount is received  irrespective of whether or not the credit operetion is rediscausted with Banco
de Portlgel.
2/ Teis degree refers to the extent of the filancial difficulties of the enterprises.
3/ Operutioms concerniny preparation and carryleg out of fire orders.
4/ Masimum amount of the Ioan:  Es. 1.5 million.
EMENA/TDF
Mac 1980



26 -
PORTUGAL - BFN                         ANNEX 2
Balance Sheets -- 1976-1979
(in Millions of Escudos)
-------------Audited-------------
1976     1977      1978       1979
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and deposits                                 842    1,617    3,145        2,666
Interest in arrears                             1,179    1,777    3,285        3,990
Portuguese state                                   92       139       854        111
Other current assets                            1,002    1,922    4,816        4,444
3,115    5,455   12,100    11,211
INVESTMENTS
Loans outstanding 1/                           28,362   34,856   41,535    51,224
Less provisions                              (1,436)  (2,422)  (3,445)   (3,938)
Equity investments                              1,171    1,244    1,067        1,079
Less provisions                                (143)      (42)      (42)       (42)
Bonds and Debentures                              246       197       196        178
Portuguese state and other                        253       242       221        200
28,453   34,075   39,532    48,701
FIXED ASSETS (Net)                                  143       170       237        806
ANGOLA AND MOZAMBIQUE BRANCHES                    1,626    1,674    1,733        1,704
TOTAL ASSETS                             33,337   41,374   53,602    62,422
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                                   603       581    1,469       2,403
Time deposits (not exceeding 1 year)              623    1,651    3,177        6,242
Centaal Bank (discounting facility)            10,554    7,466    9,687        9,217
Accrued interest                                  525       734    1,265       1,899
Other current liabilities                       1,106       812    1,223       3,243
13,411   11,244   16,821    23,004
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM LIABILTIES
Saving deposits                                   135       138       142        208
Time deposits (more than 1 year)               10,218   12,160   13,749    17,225
Local Borrowings:
Government and Central Bank                   1,882       575       -          -
Debentures                                      369       313    1,127       1,394
Others                                          795    5,787    6,745        2,379
Foreign loans and debentures                    1,962    5,029    7,873    11,149
Less exchange differences                       -        (434)  (1,097)    (1,181)
15,361   23,568   28,539    31,174
DEFERRED INCOME AND TAXES                            173      543       828        512
EQUITY
Capital                                         2,500    4,000    5,300        5,300
Portuguese State                                  679       685       692        695
Resevves                                        1,031    1,213    1,268        1,581
Revaluation reserve                               -         -         -
Retained earnings                                 182       121       154        156
4,392    6,019    7,414       7,732
TOTAL LIABILI.IES AND EQUITY                 33,337   41,374   53,602    62,422
ruarantees outstanding                          2,156    2,486    3,241        3,346
1/  Of which in,arrears                           1,599    2,526    3,658        4,330
EMENA/T-hn
Julv 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Arrears as at December 31, 1979
(Escudos billion)
1976   %     1977    %       1978    %       1979    %
Loan portfolio        28.4  100    34.8   100       42.3   100      53.2   100
Arrears
Public sector        1.3  4.6      2.1   6.0       3.9   9.2       4.3   8.1
Private sector       0.9  3.2      1.3   3.7       2.0   4.7       2.3   4.3
Ex-colonies          0.6  2.1      0.9   2.6       1.2   2.8       1.5   2.8
2.8  9.9     4.3  12.3       7.1  16.7       8.1  15.2
Increase in arrears          -            53.6           132.6            14.1
as a percentage of
previous years's arrears
No. of loans          1,594  100   1,956  100    2,266   100    3,007   100
No. of loans in
arrears               603  37.8    551  28.2       647   28.6      737   24.5
EMENA/IDF
June 1980



PORTUGAL - BFN
Actual and Projected Operations, 1977-1984
(Million Escudos)
---------ACTUAL ------                ---------------PROJECTED ------------------
1977       1978       1979           1980       1981       1982        1983       1984
APPROVALS
Investment Credits                    9,797    13,392    16,065           19,424    21,901    26,186    29,511    32,409
Production/Sales Credits              4,393      5,094      5,778           8,726      9,839    11,764    13,259    14,561
Export Credits                        2,025      6,849      6,549           7,270      9,710    12,110    14,545    16,980
Equity Investments                    1,074           2         6             -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL APPROVALS                    17.289    25.337    28.398           35.420    AA4150    50.060    5.3J5          6,5
COMMITMENTS
Investment Credits                    7,721      8,646    11,825          13,176    14,854    17,762    20,016    21,982
Production/Sales Credits              2,790      2,552      4,536           5,124      5,776      6,908      7,784      8,548
Export Credits                          554      1,459      1,741           2,000      2,670      3,330      4,000      4,670
Equity Investments                      -          -          -               -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL COMMITMENTS                  11,065    12,657    18,102           20,300    23,300    28,000    31,800    35_,2o
DISBURSEMENTS
Investment Credits                    7,343      7,828    10,196          12,325    14,900    17,625    20,250    22,575
Production/Sales Credits              2,115      2,267      3,366           4,375      5,100      5,875      6,750      7,525
Export Credits                          406      1,309        823           1,500      2,000      2,500      3,000      3,500
Equity Investments                    1,074          2          5             -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                10,938    11,406    14,390           18,200    22,000    26,000    30,000    33,600
EMENA/IDF
May 1980



- 29 -
PORTUGAL - BFN                         ANNEX 5
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS -- 1980-1984
(In Millions of Esc.)
1980       1981       1982       1983      1984
INCOME
Income from loans                       11,930    14,942    18,059    21,551    25,367
Commissions and other income               197        249        294        340        385
Total Income                        12,127    15,191    18,353    21,891    25,752
EXPENSES
Interest payable                        10,315    13,03G    15,606    18,455    21,578
Staff expenses                             379        465        560        650        770
Other administrative expenses              179        236         308       411        512
Depreciation                                45          65        85        115        145
10,918    13,796    16,559    19,631    23,005
INCOME BEFORE PROVISION
AND TAXES                                1,209      1,395      1,794      2,260      2,747
Less Provisions against losses              700        795     1,094      1,460      1,847
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                          509         600        700       800        900
Income tax                                 259        300        350        400        450
NET INCOME                                    250        300        350        400       450
RATIOS
Gross Income as a percentage of
average total assets                     18.8%      19.7%      20.1%      20.6%      20.8%
Income as a percentage of 1/
average loans outstanding                20.6%      21.0%      21.1%      21.1%      21.1%
Interest paid as a percentage of
average total borrowing  1/              18.6%      18.9%      19.1%      19.3%      19.5%
Administrative expenses as a per-
centage of average total assets           0.9%       1.0%       1.0%       1.1%       1.2%
Income before provision and taxes
as a percentage of
- Average total assets               1.9%       1.8%       2.0%       2.1%       2.2%
- Average equity                    15.3%      16.2%      17.7%      19.0%      20.0%
Provisions against losses .s a
percentage of operating profits          57.9%      57.0%      61.0%      64.6%      67.2%
Net Income as a percentage of
- Average equity                     3.2%       3.5%       3.5%       3.4%       3.3%
- Share capital (year-end)           4.7%       4.8%       4.5Z       4.3%       4.2%
Year-end provisions as a percentage
of loans and equity portfolio             6.7%       6.6%       6.7%       6.9%       7.4%
1/ The Fund from the Government for Refugee Rehabilitation included in BFN's pro-
jected Balance Sheets have not been taken into account for calculating these
ratios, since income on these funds is not included in BFN's projected income.
EMENA/IDF
Jully 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX 6
PORTUGAL - BFN
Projected Balance Sheets -- 1980-1984
(in Million of Esc.)
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and deposits                                  2,710      3,140      3,650      4,180      4,680
Other current assets                                 615        690        785        920      1,085
3,325      3,830     4,435      5,100      5,765
INVESTMENTS
Loans                                             67,936    81,496    96,785   113,956   132,341
Equity portfolio                                   1,647      1,650      1,650      1,650      1,650
less provisions                                 (4,688)   (5,483)   (6,577)   (8,037)   (9,884)
Others                                             1,000      1,030      1,060      1,090      1,120
65,895    78,693    92,918   108,659   125,227
FIXED ASSETS (Net)                                   1,025      1,200      1,295      1,340      1,35
TOTAL ASSETS                                  70,245    83,723    98,648   115,099   132,347
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                                    2,900      3,500      4,100      4,700      5,300
Time deposits (less than one year)                 7,747    10,340    12,600    14,950    17,510
Central Bank and other short-term
borrowings                                      10,488      9,831      8,913    10,301    11,055
Other current liabilities                            695        656        727        808        899
21,830    24,327    26,340    30,759    34,764
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
Saving deposits                                      300        360        425        490        550
Time deposits (more than one year)                20,534    23,560    27,400    31,050    33,990
Bonds                                              2,784      2,939      2,799      2,482      2,700
Other local borrowings                               380        410        480        550        620
Foreign loans                                     16,396    22,881    30,201    36,985    45,087
40,394    50,150    61,305    71,557    82,947
EQUITY
Share capital                                      5,300      6,300      7,800      9,300    10,800
Portuguese State-Special a/c                         737        757        777        797        817
Reserves                                           1,734      1,889      2,076      2,286      2,569
Retained earnings                                    250        300        350        400        450
8,021      9,246    11,003    12,783    14,636
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                  70,245    83,723    98,648   115,099   132,347
Guarantees outstanding                             2,900      3,100      3,300      3,500      3,700
Long-term debt and guarantees/equity
(IBRD definition)                              5.4:1      5.8:1      5.9:1      5.9:1      5.9:1
Total borrowings/equity                           7.7:1      8.0:1      7.9:1      7.9:1      8.0:1
EMENA/IDF
June 1980



- 31 -
PORTUGAL - BFN                          ANNEX 7
Projected Cash Flow Statements_-- 1980-1984
(in Millions of Esc.)
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Foreign loans:
IBRD (I & II)                                       65u     1,800      1,200      1,600      1,450
EIB                                                 720       574        -          -          -
Kreditbank                                        3,890       -          -          -          -
Kreditanstalt                                        75        200       200        180        -
French Government loan                              955       870        -          -          -
Credit Commercial de France                         210       210        210        420        -
Union Bank of Switzerland                           100        100       100        -          -
Banco Exterior de Espanc                             50         50       -          -          -
International Market Borrowings                     -       2,500      2,500        -          -
Other (unidentified) foreign loans                  -       1,536      4,890      8,300    10,310
6,650     7,840      9,100    10,500    11,760
Local currency borrowings:
Issue of bonds                                   1,440        500        500        765      1,200
Net increase in saving, time
and demand deposits                            7,135      6,279      6,765      6,665      6,160
Loan collections                                    7,084     8,440    10,711    12,829    15,215
Increase in Share Capital                             -       1,000      1,500      1,500      1,500
Provisions and retained earnings                    1,020     1,085      1,436      1,855      2,345
TOTAL SOURCES                          23,329    25,144    30,012    34,114    38,180
USES OF FUNDS
Loan disbursements                                 18,200    22,000    26,000    30,000    33,600
Repayment of borrowings>-
Bonds                                                50       345        640      1,082        982
Foreign loans                                       181     1,355      1,780      3,716      3,658
Addition to fixed assets                              266        240        180       160        1.60
Net change in current and other
assets and liabilities                           4,632      1,204      1,412       (844)      (220)
23,329    25,144    30,012    34,114    38,180
EMENA/IDF
June 1980



- 32 -
ANNEX 8
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Expected Disbursement Schedule
($ ')
FY 1981
January 1 - March 30, 1981                                  -
April 1 - June 30, 1981                                     -
FY 1982
July 1 - September 30, 1981                              4,000
October 1 - December 31, 1981                             5,000
January 1 - March 31, 1982                               6,000
April 1 - June 30, 1982                                   7,000
FY 1983
July 1 - September 30, 1982                               7,000
October 1 - December 31, 1982                             8,000
January 1 - March 30, 1983                               9,000
April 1 - June 30, 1983                                   9,000
FY 1984
July 1.- September 30, 1983                              9,000
October 1 - December 31, 1983                             9,000
January 1 - March 30, 1984                                8,000
April 1 - June 30, 1984                                   7,000
FY 1985
July 1 - September 30, 1984                              6,000
October 1 - December 31, 1984                             6,000
100,000
EMENAA/IDF
November 1980



- 33 -                   ANNEX 9
PORTUGAL
APPRAISAL OF BFN-II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected reports and studies on the sector and subsector
A-1   Manufacturing Export Industries in Portugal (IBRD Report No.
1695(a)-PO, dated December 27, 1977).
A-2   Portugal - Priorities for Public Investment (IBRD Report No.
2883-PO, dated February 29, 1980).
A-3   Macroeconomic Situation in 1979 - Ministry of Finance and Planning.
A-4   Current Export Aid Measures in Portugal, International Trade
Centre.
A-5   Proposed Incentive System - Draft Decree.
B. Selected reports and studies relating to the project
B-l   Submission of Banco de Fomento Nacional on Second Project,
November 23, 1979.
C.  Selected working papers and tables
C-1   Promotion of export-oriented Investment Projects by BFN, J.T.
Kerrigan (Consultant), April 1980
C-2   Organization Chart of BFN
C-3   Summary of Operations 1974-79
C-4   Analysis of Approved Loans 1971-79
C-5   Distribution of Approved Direct Credit Loans by Size of Project
1975-79
C-6   Sectoral Analysis of Portfolio as of December 31, 1979
C-7   Analysis of Arrears in Loan Portfolio, 1976-79
C-8   Equity Portfolio as at December 31, 1979
C-9   Income Statements 1976-79
C-10  Sector Analysis of Sub-Projects Financed Under BFN-I Loan
C-lb  BFN Export Promotion Action Plan



