FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 44a-IN
APPRAISAL OF THE
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
INDIA
March 7, 1973
ASIA PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       = Rapees (Rs) 8.00 1/
Rs 1.00       = US$0.125
Rs 1 million  = US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                            = 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton                    = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                a 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)          2                = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m                  = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha          = 0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATICNS
AFO =  Agricultural Finance Corporation
.AlD = Agricultural Finance Department
ARC = Agricultural Refinance Corporation
GOI = Government of India
LDB = Mysore State Cooperative Land Development Bank
PCB = Participating Commercial Bank
PlWD =  Public Works Department
RBI =  Reserve Bank of India
R1AC =  Regulated Market Committee
S3I =  State 3ank of India
S3G =  State Bank of India Group
SMD =  State Marketing Department
SvXC =  State and Central Warehouse Corporation
TPD = Towqn Planning Department
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL YEARS
GOI  - April 1 through March 31
ARc  -  July 1 tirough June 30
S'3T  -  January 1 through December 31
- As of the date of writing, India has not declared
a new nar value following the devaluation of the
dollar; the rupee is officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. The ?ound is now floating
rel-tive to the US dollar and consequently the Rupee-
US dollar exchange rate is subject to change.



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT'
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i - iI
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                           1
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                            2
A.     India  ............................................                        2
B.    Agricultural Marketing  ...........................                         2
C.    Agriculture  of Mysore  ............................                        3
D.    Agricultural  Credit  in Mysore  ....................                       7
III.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                            7
A.    Brief  Description  ................................                        7
B.    Detailed Features .................................                         8
C.    Construction  Schedule .............................    10
D.    Cost Estimates  .           ..................................    10
E.    Procurement  . .....................................    13
F.    Disbursement  . ....................................    14
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................    14
A.    The State Marketing Department  (SMD)  ....                    .........    14
B.    Participating  Commercial Banks  (PCBs)  ....                   ........    15
C.    Subappraisal Procedures  ..........................    16
D.    Accounts  and Audit  .......                ........................    17
E.    Contracting and  Supervision  .....                   .................    17
F.    Training  and Project Evaluation  .....                   .............    18
V.    PRODUCTION,  MARKETS,  PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS    8.....    i
A.    Production  and Market  Arrivals  ...................    18
B.    Financial Results  ................................    19
VI.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...........               ..      ...............    20
VII.    AGREEIE-NTS REACHIED AND RECOMMhENDATIONS  ....                     ............    21
This report is based on a report prepared by the State of Mysore and submitted
through GOI to IDA in April 1972, and on the results of an appraisal mission
consisting of D. Martinusen and C. Cronberg (IDA) and D. Evans, H. Kramer,
and R. Lawson (consultants) which visited India in ilay-June 1972.






-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture of Mysore
Appendix  1-1  Area Under Principal Crops
Appendix  1-2  Production of Principal Crops
Appendix  1-3  Yield per Hectare of Principal Crops
Appendix  1-4  Index Numbers of Agricultural Productivity
2.   Wholesale Marketing of Agricultural Products
Appendix  2-1  Production and Arrivals to Regulated Wholesale
Markets from 1966-67 through 1970-71
3.   Agricultural Credit in Mysore
Appendix  3-1  Principal Commercial Banks Operating in
Mysore
4.   The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Appendix 4-1   Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 4-2   Projected Balance Sheets
5.   Technical Specifications of a Typical Market Yard under the Project
Drawing No. 6989 (R) Typical Layout for a Wholesale Market
Drawing No. 6966 (R) Sack-Type Drier for Grain
6.   Phasing Chart No. 7041 (R) phasing chart
7.   Cost Estimates
Appendix  7-1  Capital Cost of RMC Models
Appendix  7-2  Operating Costs for Model Markets
Appendix  7-3  Average Salaries of RMCs
Appendix  7-4  Capital Cost of a Typical Market Intermediary's
Shop-Cum-Godown
Appendix  7-5  Operating Cost of a Typical Market Intermediary
Appendix  7-6  Staff Training and Project Evaluation Costs
8.   Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
9.   Economist for the Marketing Department
10.   Participating Commercial Banks
Appendix 10-1  Canara Bank - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 10-2  Canara Bank - Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts
Appendix 10-3  State Bank Group - Consolidated Position
Appendix 10-4  State Bank of Mysore - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 10-5  State Bank of Mysore - Condensed Profit and
Loss Accounts






- 3 -
Appendix 10-6  State Bank of Hyderabad - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 10-7  State Bank of Hyderabad - Condensed Profit and
Loss Accounts
Appendix 10-8  Syndicate Bank - Condensed Balance Sheets at:
3rd December
Appendix 10-9  Syndicate Bank - Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts
11.   Matters for Consideration in Subappraisal
12.   The Agricultural Finance Corporation
Appendix 12-1 List of Members (by Categories) and Shareholdings
13.   Project Evaluation
14.   Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Appendix 14-1 RMC Cash Flow Projections - Model "A" Market
Appendix 14-2 RMC Cash Flow Projections - Model "B" Market
Appendix 14-3(a) RMC Cash Flow Projections - Model "C" Market
Appendix 14-3(b) RMC Cash Flow Projections - Model "D" Market
Appendix 14-4 Cash Flow Projections - Typical Market
Intermediary
Appendix 14-5 Participating Commercial Banks - Projected
Cash Flow of Project Funds
Appendix 14-6 Agricultural Refinance Corporation - Projected
Cash Flow of Project Funds
15.   Economic Evaluation
Appendix 15-1 Operating Characteristics of Truck Used in
Hauling Agricultural Produce
Appendix 15-2  Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP






INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural wholesale markets project in
the State of Mysore for wnich an IDA credit of US$8 million is proposed. It
would provide credit for a five-year program of investme-nts in the develop-
ment of market yards and would also cover training of various market person-
nel and a follow-up economic study of project facilities.
ii.       Mysore in its agricultural development plan stresses improved
marketing, particularly the development of modern regulated markets to
increase competition and improve efficiency. The State Marketing Department
(SMD) already regulates trade in local areas through regulated market com-
mittees (RMCs), corporate bodies composed of elected representatives of
farmers, market intermediaries and local government. However, only a few
RMCs have made investments in well-laid-out market yards located away from
crowded bazaars where the trade can be consolidated. Credit is needed to
establish new market yards where the trade is currently in crowded bazaars as
well as to further improve or extend new market yards.
iii.      The proposed project would provide credit to RMCs to develop market
yards including site preparation, entrance and internal roads, auction plat-
forms, office and service buildings, adequate electricity, potable water,
and sewerage systems. It would also provide credit to market intermediaries
(traders, cooperatives and other corporate or statutory bodies) to construct
shops-cum-godowns (shops with office and temporary storage space) at the new
yards. The State Government proposes to raise the market fees levied by
RMCs to 1.0% (from 0.3%) of the value of products traded to permit RMCs to
meet their projected operating costs including debt service.
iv.       Based on a detailed analysis of investment needs of 30 markets
and training requirements, total project cost would be US'$11.9 million equiva-
lent.  RMCs (which have accumulated some reserves) would c-ontribute 2% of
project cost and market intermediaries 13%. Of the remainder, 15% would be
provided by participating commercial banks (PCBs), 2% by the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC) together with the State Government, and 68% by
IDA (representing the foreign exchange cost and 58% of local currency
expenditures). GOI would on-lend the IDA funds to ARC at 6% (with a 1/4%
rebate for timely repayment). ARC wTould refinance loans of PCBs at 6.5%'
and PCBs would lend to RMCs and market intermediaries at 9.0% with terms
up to 15 years (including two years' grace) to RMCs and up to eight years
(including one year grace) to market intermediaries.
v.        SMD would have principal responsibility for implementing the project.
It is well organized and experienced in administration but would be
strengtlhened technically to enable it, on behalf of RMCs, to plan markets,
prepare tender documents, award contracts and supervise construction. Each



- ii -
market would be planned according to the unique needs of the hinterland it
serves. Local contractors would construct the works after competitive
bidding. Because the markets are widely scattered, individually small and
differ greatly in types of commodities handled, stage of current development
and phasing of development, neither bulking nor international competitive
bidding would be feasible.
vi.       ARC has competent management and is financially sound.  The three
PCBs are all financially strong, well managed and have extensive operations
in the State. Training would be provided for staffs of RMCs and SMD.
In order to guide future investment in marketing, evaluation of project
facilities would be conducted by an appropriate economic research institution
or university.
vii.      The project would benefit farmers by facilitating full implementa-
tion of the State's Regulated Market Act, thereby increasing competition
among buyers and minimizing trade malpractices. This would be particularly
important for the 700,000 small farmers (less than 2 ha) expected to use
facilities financed by the project, whose bargaining power has typically
been less than large farmers'. It would also permit trade to be conducted
more efficiently and, through improved grades and standards, result in a
smoother overall market mechanism.
viii.     The major quantifiable economic benefits of the markets consist
of reduced: congestion, municipal overheads, and product losses; these
combine to provide an estimated economic rate of return of 15%. The project
is of high priority and, is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8 million.



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHO'.ESALE MARKETS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA credit of
US$8 million to help develop principal agricultural wholesale markets in
the State of Mysore. The project would be a part of India's program of
developing regulated wholesale markets aimed at increasing trade efficiency,
and of reducing product losses.
1.02      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's second of this
'type in India; the first was an IDA credit for the Bihar Agricultural Whole-
sale Markets Project (294-IN) which was approved on February 29, 1972 and is
progressing satisfactorily. The proposed project has similar objectives but
has been adapted to fit the special agricultural marketing environment of
Mysore (i.e. involving mainly commercial crops such as cotton, groundnuts,
spices, etc.) and a somewhat more advanced trading sector requiring long
term credit for owned facilities. It would provide credit to Regulated Market
Committees (RMCs) (para 2.02) to establish or improve the buildings, auction
platforms, internal roads and utilities of new market yards. The yards to
be developed would be away from the centers of market towns, thereby reduc-
ing congestion and costs to users. By concentrating the trade in a single
area, the conduct of sales would be more closely regulated and competition
maximized. The project would also provide credit to market intermediaries
to build shops-cum-godowns in the new market yard to carry on trade.
1.03      The total Bank Group lending for India's agriculture was about
US$435 million to January 1, 1973. Until 1969, most of these loans were for
irrcigation, but this has since been broadened to include direct on-farm
investments and ancillary services. During the current financial year in
addition to the proposed project for agricultural projects are proposed: two
in credit (Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh), one in agricultural wholesale
markets (Uttar Pradesh), and one for storage and processing of apples (Himachal
Pradesh).
1.04      This report is based on a report prepared by the State of
Mysore and submitted through GOI to IDA in April 1972, and on the
results of an appraisal mission consisting of D. Martinusen and C. Cronberg
(IDA) and D. Evans, H. Kramer, and R. Lawson (consultants) which visited
India in May-June 1972.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A.  India -/
2.01      Since 1965 India has placed greater emphasis on development of
agriculture compared to other sectors. As a result, priority has been
given in recent years to accelerating the introduction of the new agricul-
tural technology, through increasing the availability of improved inputs,
by providing economic incentives to farmers and by concentrating on improved
marketing. The new agricultural strategy has brought encouraging results.
The increased use of high yielding seed varieties and fertilizers, parti-
cularly when combined with 'rrigation, has contributed to a significant in-
crease in farm production. Despite the failure of the monsoon in the current
crop year good crops have been achieved on irrigated land and total
foodgrairn production, while down from 1971/72, is still one-tlird greater
than in the drought year of 1965/66. Thus, a favorable long-term trend
in agricultural production is evident and improved marketing facilities are
essential for the trend to be maintained.
B. Agricultural Marketing
2.02      GOI has encouraged the State governments tv pass Regulated Agri-
cultural Markets Acts, which are being implemented with varying degrees of
success depending on the capacity of State governments to provide the neces-
sary staff and facilities. These acts, though varying somewhat from State
to State, provide for the establishment of regulated markets administered by
Regulated Market Committees (RMCs) on which ar- represented both traders and
producers.  These committees are legal bodies with designated powers   In
addition to their regulatory functions, they are granted corporate powers
enabling them to own property, borrow money, acquire faciliries, collect fees,
sue aPnd be sued, etc.
2.03      A regulated market is essentially a meeting place for buyers and
sellers with facilities for handling large quantities of produce under a
system that assures maximum compet4tion, efficienit handling ann cleaniIn  and
a minimum of wastage. The aim of these regulated markets is the eradication
of weighing malpractices, excessive nrarket deductions and collusion irong
traders.
2.04      The methods of sale are designed to assure fair trading -ractices
and competitive prices mainly through auctioning and tendering of all produce.
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and proapects of .>gr!-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of
India, Report No. SA-32a, May 10, 1972.



Only licensed traders, commission agents and other market functionaries are
allowed to operate in such markets and their commission and other service
charges are fixed. Proper enforcement of the Regulated Markets Acts provides
for prompt payment to sellers and procedures for settlement of disputes
between buyers and producers.
2.05      Licensed commission agents and buyers must be located in one area
for effective regulation. Historically traders have been scattered in narrow
town streets, making it difficult to carry on competitive auction sales,
to enforce maximum charges, to collect market fees from traders, and to
enforce standard weights and measures. Moreover, congestion prevents quick
and efficient handling and storage.
2.06      Though the first market was regulated in India late in the 19th
century, there were only a few regulated markets until 1950. By January
1970 legislation had been passed covering regulation of over 2,100 of 3,400
major primary markets; however, implementation varies considerably between
states.
C. Agriculture of Mysore
General Description
2.07      The State of Mysore with an area of about 192,000 km2, is
located in the southwestern part of the Deccan Plateau. It has a coastline
of about 300 km. Population is about 29.3 million (provisional figures of
1971 population census) representing some 5.5% of the total population of
India. Axnong the various states of India, Mysore ranks sixth and eighth
in area and population, respectively. About 76% of the population live in
rural areas (29,500 villages). The remaining 24% live in the State's 245
towns, about one-half (12%) in the 11 principal centers of over 100,000
people. For administrative purposes, the State is divided into 4 divisions,
19 districts, and 175 Talukas (administrative units).
2.08      The per capita income of the State is about equal to the average
for the whole country. The State's economy is (for India) fairly diversified,
with agriculture contributing some 61% to GNP; mining, manufacturing and
small enterprises, 14%; commerce, transport and communications, 12% and
services, 13%.
2.09      Agro-cliinatically the State can be broadly divided into four
regions, primarily based on rainfall and associated factors: (i) the
coastal region to the west with an annual rainfall of over 3,000 mm; (ii)
the hilly region, including the Western Ghats, running from north to south
parallel to the coast with an annual rainfall range of 1,300 mm to 2,500
mm; (iii) a narrow transition zone running along the eastern slope of the
hilly region and with a reasonably assured annual rainfall of from 800 to
1,000 mm; (iv) the dry region of north, central, and southeastern Mysore



-4-
where annual rainfall varies from 400 to 800 mm. Nearly 70% of the geographic
area of the State is within the low rainfall zone and requires supplementary
irrigation.
2.10      Some 6.7 million persons are engaged in agriculture, representing
65% of the total working population. The total land area in the State is
some 19.0 million ha, and of this some 62% is cultivated (of which about
one-seventh is fallow); 15% forested; and 23% barren, uncultivated or used
for nonagricultural purposes. The State produces a wide diversity of crops
(paras 2.12-2.14).
2.11      According to the 1955-56 census of landholdings, there were 2.47
million holdings totalling 10.8 million ha. Average farm size was 4.4 ha,
with almost one-half of the holdings under 2 ha (Annex 1).
Agricultural Production
2.12      About two thirds of the State's 10.8 million ha of cropped area in
1969-70 was devoted to foodgrains, predominantly cereals. Production of
foodgrains reached almost 6 million tons in 1970-71, consisting mainly of
jowar (34%), rice (33%), ragi (15%), and pulses 7%. 1/ Cereal production
increased about 50% over the decade ending 1970-71, due to increase in yield.,
Some of this yield improvement is related to the high yielding varieties
program which has grown rapidly and by 1970-71 covered 9% of the total area
under cereals.
2.13      Other important crops include sugarcane (8 million tons in 1970-71),
oilseeds (0.7 million tons) and cotton (443,000 bales of 180 kg lint).  In
addition, the State is India's largest producer of coffee and also produces
a wide variety of spices, nuts, and fruits and vegetables.
2.14      With the exception of sugarcane, which is virtually 100% irrigated,
Mysore's agriculture is predominantly dryland. Overall, only about 13%
of the area devoted to crops is irrigated compared to an all-India average
of 25%.
Agricultural Development Priorities
2.15      One of the State's principal development aims is increased agricul-
tural production through expanded irrigation and increased use of new
varieties and related inputs and practices. The State's overall objective
is to double the area under irrigation by 1978-79 compared to 1969-70. This
goal represents a doubling in the rate of growth compared to the preceding
9-year period and a three-fold increase in the hectares brought under
irrigation. The goal will be difficult to attain; nevertheless, a consider-
able increase in irrigated area and resulting increase in marketable surplus
is likely. Agricultural production is further discussed in Annex 1.
1/   Jowar is the Indian term for sorghum and ragi the term for finger
millet.



-5-
2.16      Anticipating increases in marketable surpluses, the State also
places high priority on improved market facilities and practices to protect
producers and improve the flow of produce to market.
Agricultural Marketing
2.17      Good statistics on marketable surplus are not available but it is
generally thought to be about 50% of production with about half this amount
passing through regulated markets. Farmers sell their marketable
surpluses through a variety of channels depending on commodity, location and
size of farm, and tradition (Annex 2). Paddy has generally gone direct to
the State's 6,000 mills (generally small; huller type) for processing and
sale in the nearby area. Industrial crops (e.g. cotton and groundnuts) have
gone direct to mills or, in common with other foodgrains and specialty
crops (spices, etc.), to wholesale markets that grew up in the towns.
2.18      A variety of middlemen and processors receive the goods from
farmers. Commission agents provide credit to farmers and arrange sale on
commission. Traders and processors purchase the goods for resale, storage
or processing. A single operator may be a commission agent in certain com-
modities or markets and a trader in others. Some operate in different
markets and commodities depending on season.
2.19      In the absence of regulated trading a variety of malpractices have
evolved, to the disadvantage of farmers. Middlemen are also moneylenders
and have used their position of strength to charge high commissions or to
collude on prices. There are also malpractices in weighing and payment. In
order to eliminate malpractices the State has taken steps to regulate the
trade under the Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act 1966. Under
the Act, 99 Regulated Market Committees (RMCs) have been established to
regulate trade throughout the State. Each RMC consists of representatives
of farmers, government and middlemen and is charged with regulating the
trade in a specified area. All but eight RMCs have fulltime staffs to
implement their work of licensing, inspecting, auctioning, recording and
grading. The senior personnel of RMCs (market secretary and assistant
secretary, internal auditor and accountant) are employees of the State
Marketing Department (SMD) and are transferred every few years between
RMCs. The cost of these employees is borne by a uniform levy on the gross
revenues of all RMCs; in 1970-71 this charge was 25% of all RMCs' revenues.
2.20      RMCs license middlemen, specify charges that may be levied, and
supervise the conduct of trade by auction or tender. The tonnage of products
passing through RMCs increased 50% between 1966-67 and 1970-71. The
percentage of production coming to regulated markets is highest (over 90%)
for specialty crops such as spices and lowest (5%) for paddy (although the
tonnage of paddy arrivals has doubled over the last five years).  About
50-60% of the production of cotton and oilseeds and 30 - 40% of pulses pass
through regulated markets.



- 6 -
2.21      Many RMCs are small and of recent origin.  The older and larger
RMCs have generally been successful in supervising: commission charges,
weighing, issuance of bills of sale, payment, and sale by auction or tender.
In addition, they have provided a tribunal for disputes. Even where RMCs
are well-established, however, some problems remain. Most markets are
located in the crowded and unhygienic bazaar areas of market towns. The
congestion causes delays to farmers, market intermediaries and other users
of the towns, and increases the cost of essential services (sewage disposal,
water, power, police and fire protection). For trucks, which currently
transport about 30% of the tonnage of arrivals to the markets and 80% of
departures, the cost of delays is substantial. The effective supervision of
trade and the proper display of goods is almost impossible. Where RMCs have
made investments to develop new yards they have generally had insufficient
funds to complete the job. In other cases the RMCs have made investments
in a new yard but the market intermediaries have lacked sufficient funds
to construct their shop-cum-godowns, with the result that the bulk of the
trade has remained in the bazaar. In some better-laid-out (newer) market
yards, in addition to auctions, a tender system of sale is used which saves
considerable time (Annex 2), but for markets in the traditional bazaars
the tender system (requiring space to display goods for several hours) is
not possible.
2.22      The majority of goods (over two-thirds) is transported to market
by bullock cart, which generally limits a farmer's radius of sale to 35 km
(about eight hours each way). Lot sizes are small (generally less than one
ton, since farms are small and each one-ton bullock cartload consists of
several items) and movement is of sacked goods rather than in bulk. Little
information is available on on-farm storage, but storage space beyond subsi.s-
tence needs is believed small. Storage capacity in the distribution channel
totals about 820,000 ton (about one-half of total arrivals at RMCs in the most
recent year), consisting of traders' and commission agents' godowns (340,000
ton), State Government (50,000 ton), cooperative marketing societies (310,000
ton) and State and Central Warehouse Corporations (120,000 ton). Storage
is entirely in sacks and quality of storage varies greatly. Individual
identity of lots is maintained. Some foodgrains suffer rain-damage (particularly
for rainy-season harvested crops where double-cropping is catching on) and
simple hot air dryers are needed to remedy this.
2.23      Some official grading of cotton and groundnuts is practiced but
purchases are still made after physical inspection of each lot. SMD plans to
extend official grading but considerable work in defining relevant grade
factors, in devising appropriate sampling and analysis practices, and training
is required. Adequate space is also a necessity. RMCs and SMD currently
collect and publish price information; however, without meaningful grades and
standards, a useful system of market intelligence is difficult.



-7-
D. Agricultural Credit in Mysore
General
2.24      Long-term agricultural credit has been provided by the Mysore State
Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and its 170 affiliated Primary Land
Development Banks. LDB's loans outstanding totalled Rs 366 million (US$50
million) at end June 1970. Its arrears position has been bad but is ex-
pected to improve with managerial and organizational changes being made
under the IDA-financed Mysore Agricultural Credit Project 1971.
2.25      Medium- and short-term credit has been provided by Mysore State
Cooperative Apex Bank Limited through its 19 affiliated District Central
Cooperative Banks and nearly 8,000 primary cooperative credit societies..
Total lending during 1970-71 amounted to Rs 266 million (US$37 million).
2.26      The commercial banks have become heavily involved in agricultural
lending in recent years. They have increased their number of branches (to
1,200 at end 1971) and have strengthened their agricultural finance depart-
ments by hiring agriculture graduates and through in-service training.
Total loans to farmers increased by 3-1/2 times, to Rs 280 million (US$38
million), between June 1969 and December 1971. Agricultural credit in the
State is further described in Annex 3.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
2.27      The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) is a subsidiary of the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and is well-known to IDA as the lending channel
for a variety of IDA supported projects including the Bihar Agricultural
Wlholesale Markets Project and the Mysore Agricultural Credit Project. Its
function is to refinance agricultural or agriculturally-related investment
schemes taken up by LDB's, the State Cooperative banks, or commercial banks.
Since its inception in 1963, ARC had made commitments of Rs 2,487 million
(US$342 million) to June 1971; 85% of this was in the last four years.
ARC's professional staff of over 100 includes a small technical group and
staff at 14 regional offices (including Bangalore). ARC is further described
in Annex 4.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The proposed project is part of the on-going GOI program to develop
regulated agricultural wholesale markets throughout the country. It would
help finance new markets or improvements to existing markets operated by RMCs
in the State of Mysore. The State Marketing Department (SMD) would have



-8-
principal responsibility for project implementation. Regulated Market
Committees (RMCs) under the general guidance of SMD would construct build-
ings, access and internal roads, trading platforms, office and laboratory
buildings, and utilities for the market yards. RMCs would borrow from one
of three commercial banks under the project (para 4.07 through 4.10), which
would be refinanced by ARC. Market intermediaries (traders, cooperatives
and other corporate or statutory bodies) would purchase or lease plots
from the RMCs or would have previously done so, and would borrow from the
participating banks to construct shops-cum-godowns -- typical facilities in
the wholesale trade of the State -- consisting of a display area, office
and storage area for goods handled in a one to three-week period.
B. Detailed Features
Market Planning
3.02      Existing RMCs vary greatly in their extent of market development.
Older, generally larger, RMCs have already made investments in land and market
improvements such as office buildings, auction platforms and internal roads.
Other RMCs have made few, if any, investments. Investments under the project
would, therefore, vary according to size of market, principal commodities
traded, and extent of existing development.
3.03      In cases where new land is to be purchased or where land for a new
market yard already exists, both SMD and the participating commercial bank
(PCB) would appraise the suitability of the site in relation to traffic flows,
room for expansion. topography, and availability of utilities (para 4.13).
In order to ensure that each RMC borrowing under the project would result in
a properly functioning market yard and to avoid making partial (hence not
fully effective) investments over a great many markets, both SMD and the PCB
would check that investments proposed in the loan request of each RMC would
result in an efficient and complete functioning yard (para 4.13).
Market Facilities
3.04      It is expected that most RMCs participating under the project
would have been operating for some time, in certain cases for over 10 years,
although newer R'MCs would not be excluded.  Sites would be selected accord-
ing to projected growth in arrivals, locations relative to adjacent markets
and transport, extent of existing congestion, and ?rojected debt service
capacity. Although 99 RMCs operate in the State many of these are very
small and operate only one or two days per week with little need for addi-
tional investment at this stage. The markets which would be selected for
development would be in districts where irrigation, production and market
arrivals are expected to grow rapidly and therefore have the greatest need
for immediate development. The project would provide credit for some or
all of the following: survey and land preparation, access roads, auction
platforms, fencing, buildings, traders' shops-cum-godowns, internal roadways
and parking areas, utilities, and equipment. Details of market layout and
engineering specifications are outlined in Annex 5.



-9-
3.05      Land would be provided by RMCs from their own resources and would
not be financed under the project. About half of the RMCs in Mysore State
have some or all of the needed land; therefore, purchasing of land is not
expected to be a problem with the project. For new market yards the land
would be surveyed and leveled to ensure proper drainage. The survey and
market planning would cover the market's foreseeable future needs. The
access road, which would be hardsurfaced and of a standard adequate to meet
expected traffic, would link the market to the nearest State highway.
Internal roads and parking areas (with shade trees) would be surfaced to
a standard appropriate to the expected load (bitumen for the roads; crushed
gravel for the parking areas). The entire area would be enclosed by a wall
or fence. Basic to the market yard would be provision within the market
of utilities, including electricity, (transformers and internal distribution)
potable water (tubewells and piping) and sewerage (pipes and septic tanks).
3.06      Buildings would include an office complex to house the administra-
tive and inspection staff of the RMC, housing for guards and service
personnel and a service building to house (on a lease basis) inter alia a
canteen and input shops. A dormitory for farmers and, where a market yard
includes livestock sales, a veterinary dispensary, would be provided.
The plan for the market would include space for a bank and post office and the
land for these would be leased out although the cost of these facilities
would not be financed under the project.
3.07      Most farmers deliver their product direct to a shop-cum-godown
for sale by tender or auction. Auction platforms with scales would be
provided for these farmers who sell their products directly without going
through an intermediary or for overflow arrivals on a particular day. They
would be above ground level and be covered for protection from rain.
3.08      Market intermediaries (traders, cooperatives and other corporate
or statutory bodies) would borrow from commercial banks to construct shops-
cum-godowns. A standard unit would average about 250 m2 and include an
open area for display of goods for sale by tender or auction (para 2.21)
and space for an office, temporary storage for farmers' produce and working
storage (sufficient for one to three weeks' purchases). ]Large businesses
would need several of these standard sites. Some market intermediaries
would be expected to trade in agricultural inputs.
3.09      An alternate approach would be for RMCs to build the shops-cum-
godowns and lease them to market intermediaries. However, in Mysore the
ownership approach is expected to be the common pattern because it conforms
to existing practice. Where new markets are being developed (but the trade
has not yet shifted from the bazaar), plots in the new market yards have
generally already been sold or leased for long terms to market intermediaries.
3.10      Equipment (Annex 5) under the project would generally include a
simple heated air dryer, scales for weighing, sampling probes and laboratory
equipment, jeeps, communications equipment (telephone, radio, loudspeaker)
to provide accurate and current market information, and office equipment.



- 10 -
Training and Project Evaluation
3.11      Training would be provided for senior staff of SMD, market secre-
taries and graders (paras 4.19 through 4.21). Economic evaluation of project
results would be carried out by contract between the State Government and a
qualified economic research institution (para 4.22).
C. Construction Schedule
3.12      Construction of a new market yard after planning and engineering
would take one to two years, depending partly on access to basic facilities
(e.g., sewerage systems, water connections). Some of the RMCs which only are
making improvements would complete the work in less time. Construction of
the relatively simple shops-cum-godowns of market intermediaries can begin
shortly after approval of plans and specifications (para 4.16) and would
take about half a year. Local contractors would undertake the construction
in the different yards. A detailed phasing chart appears in Annex 6.
D. Cost Estimates
3.13      Total project cost is estimated at about Rs 95 million (US$12
million) and has been based on a detailed analysis of the investment needs
of 30 markets. The foreign exchange component of Ra 21.6 million (US$2.7
million) represents about 23% of total costs and includes the foreign
exchange component of buildings and equipment.  A physical contitgency of
6.5% (5% on the investments by RMCs; 8% on the investments by market
intermediaries) was added to all costs. All estimates are based on 1972
costs. Probable cost increases have been taken into account by adding a
5% price contingency per annum to all costs. The overall price contingency
of 26% results from project phasing. The following table summarizes cost
estimates (see Annex 7 for details).



- 11 -
Rs Thousands             US$ Thousands          Z
For-                     For-           Foreign
Local   eign      Total  Local   eign   Total  Exchange
A. Regulated Market
Committees
Civil Works           8,652   2,220  10,872   1,087    272   1,359    20
Structures           10,952   2,640  13,592   1,365    334   1,699    19
Utilities             2,153   1,520   3,673       271    188      459    41
Equipment               646      945   1,591       82    117      199    59
Engineering and
Supervision          2,972        -   2,972      372       -     372      -
Subtotal        25,375   7,325  32,700   3,177    911   4,088    22
B. Market Intermediaries
Structures           25,100   5,900  31,000   3,115    760   3,875    19
Utilities             2,850   2,000   4,850       358    248      606    41
Equipment               640      910   1,550       80    114      194    59
Subtotal        28,590   8,810  37,400   3,553  1,122   4,675    24
C. Training and Project
Evaluation
Training                 225       -      225      28       -       28     -
Evaluation              380        -      380      48       -      48      -
Subtotal           605        -     605       76      -       76     -
Project Cost         54,570  16,135  70,705   6,806  2,033   8,839    23
Contingencies:
Physical (6.5%)       3,545   1,050   4,595       442    132      574    23
Subtotal        58,115  17,185  75,300   7,248  2,165   9,413    23
Price (26%)          15,080   4,460  19,540   1,880    562   2,442    23
Total Project Cost         73,19-5          94,840   9,128  2,727  11,855    23
3.14      The project would be financed as follows:



- 12 -
IDA
Contribution
Project Cost                          Through
Market                          Total
Cost                   Inter-        11       State  Project         State
Items          RMCs  mediaries  ARC-- PCbs  Gov't   Cost   ARC   Gov't  Total
-------------------…(Rs million)------------------------
Civil Works /2  0.6       -        9.3   2.0      -    11.9   9.1       -    9.1
Structures /2   0.7      7.8      30.8   6.7      -    46.0  30.0       -   30.0
Utilities /2    0.2      1.2       6.1   1.4      -     8.9   6.0       -    6.0
Equipment        0.1     0.4       2.2   0.6      -     3.3   2.2       -    2.2
Training and
Evaluation       -       -         -     -      0.6    0.6    -       0.4   0.4
Contingencies   0.6      3.2      16.6   3.5    0.2   24.1  16.2       0.1  16.3
Total          2.2    12.6      65.0--14.2/3  0.8   94.8  63.5       0.5  64.0
US$ Equiva-
lent (M)       0.3      1.6       8.2   1.8    0.1   12.0   7.9       0.1   8.0
% Total          2      13        69    15       1    100    67        1    68
% IDA Con-
tribution       -        -      67       -      1     68    99        1   100
% Net of IDA
Contribution   2       13         2    15       -    32
/1   Including ARC and IDA funds.
/2   Including cost of engineering and supervision.
/3   Sum of ARC's and PCBs' outlay equals total amount of subloans.
3.15      RMCs would provide at least 5% of the cost of their investments,
equal to about 2% of total cost of market yard development under the project,
while the market intermediaries would provide 25% of the cost of their
investments, equal to 13% of total project cost. In addition, RMCs would
have to meet from their own funds (and not considered as a part of project
cost for refinance purposes) PCB's appraisal fee of 1/2% of subloan amount
plus applicable stamp duties (2-3% of an RMC sub-project). PCBs would lend
up to 95% of the cost of RMC investments and 75% of market intermediaries'
investments, or 84% of total project cost. ARC would refinance up to 82% of
PCBs' outlays, leaving PCBs' contributions from their own funds at about
15% of project cost. IDA would finance about 97% of ARC's outlays, equal
to about 67% of project costs through ARC, leaving ARC's contribution from
;its own funds at about 2% of project costs.



- 13 -
3.16      The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million (Rs 64.0 million) would
finance about 68% of total project costs, based on (a) the estimated foreign
exchange cost of buildings and equipment, and (b) about 58% of the local
project costs. GOI would on-lend about US$7.9 million to ARC (para 3.17)
and would make the balance of the credit available to the Government of Mysore
for training and project evaluation.
3.17      The IDA credit would be on normal terms to GOI, which would bear
the foreign exchange risk. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations:
(a)  that, as a condition of effectiveness of the credit, a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA between GOT and ARC
had been executed providing that GOI would make the proceeds
available to ARC repayable over 15 years at 6% (with a 1/4%
rebate for timely repayment of principal and interest);-and
(b)  that Refinancing Agreements acceptable to IDA would be
executed between ARC and each PCB, providing for the
refinancing of project subloans. These Agreements would
provide for onlending of the proceeds to PCBs at an interest
rate of 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding indebtedness. PCBs
would in turn onlend to RMCs at 9% and terms up to 15 years
with two years grace and to market intermediaries at 9% and
terms up to eight years with one year grace. PCBs would
require a mortgage on assets financed. On loans to RMCs,
PCB would. restrict, during the period of any loans, the use
of any surpluses after meeting operating costs and debt ser-
vice to development purposes (including further works within
the market yards and farm-to-market roads within the market
area), and then only after current indebtedness to PCB had
been satisfied. PCBs would follow appraisal procedures des-
cribed in paras 4.13 and 4.16. ARC refinance would be repay-
able by PCBs in installments set to coincide approximately
with collections from subborrowers. Where RMCs repay ahead
of schedule, PCBs would advance their repayment schedule to
ARC accordingly.
E. Procurement
3.18      The markets to be developed differ greatly as to size, mix of com-
modities handled, and current stage of development; each market would there-
fore be designed accordingLto its unique needs and following schedules esta-
blished by the beneficiaries at each site, i.e., the RMC and the market
intermediaries. Because of the diversity of the markets and because the
structures of simple brick and concrete construction would differ in design,
each market subproject would require at least one contract. In addition,
construction of shops for market intermediaries within each market would
normally require additional works, for which each shop owner would make
arrangements. Construction of project facilities would be phased over four



- 14 -
and one-half to five years. This means that on average six to eight RMCs
contracts in this many market centers would be let each year for a total
value of US$1-1.5 million and ranging from about US$100,000 to US$400,000
per market. Sulking of such small diverse and geographically dispersed con-
tracts for international competitive bidding would not be practical. Pro-
curement would thus follow local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. Many local contractors in Mysore can carry out the works.
SMD would be responsible for preparation of tender documents, detailed drawings,
and construction contracts and for supervising construction of works for the
RMCs (para 4.18).
3.19      The designs and sizes of market intermediaries' shops-cum-godowns,
although requiring RMC and SMD approval (para 4.16), would varv considerably,
thereby preventing bulking of contracts. Each market intermediary would
therefore arrange for his own construction, the contracts of which PCBs must
approve.
F. Disbursement
3.20      IDA would reimburse 80% of all subloan disbursements for market
facilities and ancillary equipiaent for the project and 60% of the cost for
training and project evaluation. IDA disbursements would be made against PCB's
certificates of expenditure endorsed by ARC to the effect that refinancing
of disbursements against subloans is being arranged. The documentation sup-
porting the certificates of expenditure would not be submitted for review, biit
would be retained by GOI for inspection by the Association during the course
of a Project supervision mission. A schedule of estimated IDA disbursements
appears in Annex 8.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The State Marketing Department
4.01      The State Marketing Department (SMD) was established in 1941 and
has operated in its present form since 1948. SMD's main function is to
implement the terms of the Mysore Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation)
Act, 1966 (para 2.19). The Act gives wile powers to SMD to regulate markets,
including the formation and operation of Regulated Market Committees (RMCs),
conduct of trade, licensing of traders, levying of market charges, and imposi-
tion of penalties.
4.02      SMD is headed by a Chief Marketing Officer and a Joint Chief
Marketing Officer, who are assisted by officers at Bangalore, and by officers
in the State's four revenue divisions and its 19 districts. The officers
are generally experienced and administratively efficient. SMD supervises
the activities of all of the State's 99 RMCs.



- 15 -
4.03      SMD would be the principal agency responsible for implementing
the project. SIAD is well-staffed to provide administrative assistance to
RMCs under the project, but requires strengthening in technical and economic
matters. It plans to strengthen its staff by adding suitably experienced
engineers and architects seconded from the Public Works Department (P.D)
and the Town Planning Department (TPD). Both these departments have expe-
rience in this work from previous assistance to RMCs in market projects
(para 4.05) and would continue to assist SMD and RICs by preparing drawings
and specifications to support loan requests, preparing tender documents,
calling for tenders, analyzing bids, and supervising construction.
4.04      In addition, SMD would obtain the services of a qualified economist,
who would assist RMCs in preparing loan requests and would generally advise
SMD on trends in agriculture as they affect marketing, in particular on the
type and location of needed investments. For further information on the
qualifications and duties of the economist, see Annex 9.
4.05      It would be a condition of effectiveness that SMD had obtained
the full time services of at least one suitably experienced engineer, one
architect experienced in layouts and structures of the sort contemplated in
the project, and of an economist, with experience and qualifications accept-
able to IDA. In addition, an assurance has been obtained from the Government
of Mysore that the Public Works and Town Planning Departments would generally
assist SMD in project planning and supervision.
4.06      In order to ensure that RMCs under the project would be able to
cover their operating costs and debt service, assurances have been obtained
from the State Government that all RMCs under the project will be required
to charge a market fee of 1% of the value of products traded.
B. Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs)
4.07      In order to expand the role of commercial banks in development
financing and in keeping with GOI's program of increasing the involvement
of commercial banks in rural lending, the Canara Bank (Canara), the State
Bank of India Group (SBG), and the Syndicate Bank (Syndicate) are expected
to participate under the project.
4.08      SBG in Mysore consists of the State Bank of India (SBI) and its
subsidiaries, the State Banks of Hyderabad and Mysore. Both Canara and
Syndicate were nationalized, along with 12 other major commercial banks, in
July 1969.
4.09      The proposed PCBs are all financially strong, well-managed, and
well-experienced in commercial banking in the State. Each is represented
in all 19 districts although the strength of coverage of particular districts
varies. Together they have 717 branches in the State, broken down as follows:
Canara 222; SBG 249; and Syndicate 246. All are large banks and the project
would form only a small part of the operations of each. For example, for



- 16 -
Syndicate, smallest of the three, total project cost would represent only
about 3% of its total assets. For all three, deposits have grown between
50% and 60% between December 31, 1969 and December 31, 1971.
4.10      The proposed PCB's have recently expanded their agricultural dev-
elopment activities by opening new branches in rural areas and increasing
their lending for agriculture. The three tripled the level of their loans
outstanding to farmers in the State (from Rs 43 million to Rs 120 million)
between June 1969 and December 1971. They have also upgraded their staffs
for agricultural lending, through hiring of agricultural graduates and
training of existing staff. Details of the three PCB's are provided in
Annex 10.
C. Subappraisal Procedures
Loans to RMCs
4.11      An RMC wishing to participate under the project would submit
details of its proposed development to SMD. Details would include a
sketch plan of the market yard and surrounding area, particulars of the
proposed development, estimated cost, information on past and projected
market arrivals and revenues, transportation pattern, numbers and types
of market operations, composition of RMC, financial statements, and avail-
ability of funds.
4.12      SMD would study the proposal, visit the site and if necessary make
alterations in consultation with RMC. If SMD approves the proposal it would
then authorize the preparation of preliminary designs and cost estimates
through PWD and TPD (para 4.03), obtain all necessary municipal and State
clearances, and submit copies of all relevant data to the PCB in support
of RMC loan application. A copy of the application and supporting documents
would Lie passed to ARC.
4.13      The PCB would carry out a detailed appraisal of intended develop-
ment, either with its own personnel in the case of SBG, or utilizing services
of ARC-approved consultants in the case of other PCBs. The appraisal would
follow procedures spelled out in Annex 11 and would ensure, among other
things, that an RMC's proposed investments would result in an efficient
and complete functioning yard. The other PCBs would most likely use the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) to prepare an appraisal report. AFC
is described in Annex 12.
4.14      After approving a loan request, PCB would forward the loan appli-
cation, appraisal report and all supporting documents to ARC for refinancing.
ARC would advise PCB of its decision and, if the subloan is approved, ARC
would refinance it in an amount up to 82% of the PCB's loan amounts. The
PCB would require a mortgage on the assets financed (para 3.17).



- 17 -
Loans to Market Intermediaries
4.15      RMCs would generally make available plots of land within the
market by salc or on long-term lease to market intermediaries who would
then construct their own shops-cum-godowns (para 3.01) on the leased plots.
An intermediary operating in a market being developed under the project and
wanting a loan to finance construction would make application to a PCB.
4.16      The PCB would assure itself (Annex 11) that the intermediary had
a valid license and that his proposed plans had been approved by the RMC and
SMD. The PCB would also require a mortgage on the building and would appraise
the financial capacity of the borrower to repay. On-lending would be on
terms as discussed in para 3.17. Loans to market intermediaries would be
grouped and forwarded to ARC for refinance, which would examine the
requests on their own merits and in relation to the overall market develop-
ment. For loan requests which it approves ARC would refinance up to 82% of
PCB's subloan amounts.
D. Accounts and Audit
4.17      The accounts of each of the PCBs and ARC are audited annually by
independent auditors (Annexes 4 and 10). During negotiations, assurances
would be sought from ARC that it would continue to have its accounts audited
by IDA approved auditors and that its refinance agreements under the project
would require PCBs (1) to maintain clearly identifiable accounts of
project loans and to forward audited statements covering project loans to
ARC and IDA within four months of the end of the financial year to which
they refer; and (2) to insist that RMICs forward accounts audited by ARC-
approved auditors as a part of subloan appraisal (Annex 11), and continue to
have their books audited annually during the period of any loan and to
forward copies of the audited accounts to the PCB within four months of the
end of each fiscal year.              I
E. Contracting and Supervision
4.18      After approval of a loan proposal by the SMD, PCB and ARC, PWD
would carry out a detailed survey of the site and would prepare detailed
drawings and tender documents and, on behalf of the RMC, would advertise
for tenders and award contracts in a manner prescribed by State law. There-
after PWD would be responsible for supervising construction and approving
payments through its authorized engineers.



- 18 -
F. Training and Project Evaluation
Training
4.19      The staff of SID is well-experienced but would be strengthened
by further training. Under the project, SN.D would send a minimum of one
senior staff member per year to GOI's Directorate of NIarketing and
Inspection at Nagpur for a one-year course in marketing.
4.20      The market secretaries of RMCs are employees of SMD (para 2.19)
and their role is vital to the success of the project. In order to upgrade
the quality of market secretaries, a minimum of 10 market secretaries
per year would be sent to the six-month course for market secretaries
operated by GOI.
4.21      Qualified grading inspectors would be required in each of the
markets under the project. A minimum of 15 graders per year would be
sent to an appropriate course for graders operated by GOI. During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the State Government that
during the first five years of the project the training of the above
personnel would be carried out.
Economic Evaluation
4.22      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the State
Government that within six months of effectiveness SMD would enter into a
contract with an appropriate economic research institution or university
to evaluate the project's impact on a sample of markets under the project.
This would have important implications for future investment policy in the
agricultural marketing field. Proposed terms of reference of the study are
in Annex 13.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, ANn FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production and Market Arrivals
5.01      The State Government is giving great emphasis to increased agricul-
tural production through investments in irrigation and through a variety of
programs such as high yielding varieties and intensive area development
(paras 2.15 and 2.16). Considerable increases in agricultural production
have occurred and further increases are likely (Annex 1). The State projects
cereals production to increase by about 4% per year through the end of
the Fifth Plan Period (1978-79), pulses by 5% per year, oilseeds by 6.5%
per year and cotton by 15% per year. These increases would vary among
districts largely according to increased irrigation.
5.02      Since most subsistence needs are met from existing production,
the bulk of incremental production is marketed. Marketable surplus thus



- 19 -
grows much more quickly than production. Rice which is mainly consumed
locally may continue to go direct to mills but other cereals, specialty crops
(spices etc.) and industrial crops (mainly cotton and oilseeds) will likely
come to the wholesale markets. Industrial crops, since they are channelled
to a national market, can be expected to be attracted to wholesale markets
where millers and other buyers can purchase the supplies they need.
5.03      The composition of market arrivals varies widely as between
commodities and seasons.  Northeastern markets such as Raichur receive
mainly cotton and groundnuts; Belgaum (northwest) receives mainly
potatoes and onions; while for Mangalore a variety of spices, fruits and
paddy is traded.
5.04      The State operates a procurement scheme for rice (to obtain
supplies for distribution through Fair Price Shops) at support prices
intended to be profitable for efficient producers. To date rice prices
have been substantially above those minima. India has a deficit in both
cotton and oilseeds and their prices are expected to remain firm.
B. Financial Results
Market Committees
5.05      Financial models were prepared for four typical RMCs:  Model
"A" - a large new market (86,000 ton per year); Model "B" - a smaller
new market (30,000 ton per year); M4odel "C" - a medium-sized market where
improvements must be undertaken; and Model "D" - a small-sized market where
improvements must be undertaken. The approach is discussed further in Annex
14 and the models shown in Appendices 14-1, 14-2, 14-3(a) and 14-3(b). The
average price of commodities traded is based on an analysis of actual prices
over the past five years. Revenues have been based on a market fee of 1%
of the value of arrivals (para 4.06). Capital and operating costs have been
estimated as indicated in paragraph 3.13 and detailed in Annex 7. The
markets to be developed vary greatly (paras 3.02 and 5.03); because of this,
the models should be regarded as illustrative only.
5.06      Financial rates of return are estimated at 36% for model "A",
20% for "B", 29% for "C" and 18% for "D". These rates of return are adequate
for all models but are sensitive to changes in average product prices or
volume. For example, for the "D" model a 20% reduction in product prices
would reduce the rate of return to 9%; a 20% drop in volume would have a
similar result. Although at a 1% market fee and projected product prices
and volumes considerable surpluses would result (particularly for the "A" and
"C' models), the 1% market fee is necessary to protect the financial viability
of RMCs in the event of lower product prices and volumes. Based on cash-flow
calculations RMCs would be able to repay their loans, without undue difficulty,
between 10 and 15 years.



- 20 -
Market Intermediaries
5.07      Reliable data on the revenues and costs of market intermediaries
are scarce; however, a financial model for a typical market intermediary
was prepared and is shown in Appendix 14-4. The model excludes subsidiary
income from ancillary activities such as moneylending. An intermediary's
revenues are assumed to consist of a 1-1/2% commission on goods for which he
acts as a commission agent and a margin of 4% on goods traded wholesale.
Based on the model, the intermediary would earn a financial rate of return
of 18% and would be able to repay his loan (covering 75% of investment cost)
in eight years, including one year grace.
Financial Intermediaries
5.08      Financial models were prepared for PCBs (Appendix 14-5) and ARC
(Appendix 14-6) based on on-lending terms and conditions outlined in paras
3.15 through 3.17. Both PCBs and ARC would be able to accumulate sufficient
surpluses to cover overheads and possible slow repayments of subloans and
satisfactory provisions for profits.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would provide a number of important economic and social
benefits. It would facilitate full implementation of the Regulated Markets
Act and maintenance of competitive markets thereby promoting one of the
principal agricultural development objectives of both the Central and State
Governments. Malpractices would be minimized, with resulting benefits to
farmers. More farmers would be persuaded to utilize the regulated markets
where competition is greatest and producer prices highest. As a result,
prices to farmers would probably show an overall increase with a resulting
positive supply response. Trade would be conducted in better laid out areas
at less overall cost. It would permit the use of sale by tender with resulting
time saving for users (para 2.21). It would also reduce: congestion, muni-
cipal costs, and certain product losses (para 6.02). The project would also
assist in developing improved grading and standards and market intelligence,
resulting in a smoother overall market mechanism and an encouragement to
farmers to deliver better quality produce to market. The new or improved
markets would also provide a natural meeting place for the dissemination of
new ideas and supply of inputs.
6.02      Because of the variety of products and marketing arrangements,
the scarcity of reliable data and the newness of market improvements as an
investment activity, the above benefits are difficult to quantify. However,
the project would also provide other benefits which may not be as important
as the above but for which quantitative estimates were made (Annex 15), as
follows:
(a) reduced congestion resulting in less waiting for transport
equipment (especially trucks) used to bring produce to, and



- 21 -
mainly dispatch from, the markets (a benefit of Rs 11.4 million
per year at full development);
(b)  reduced net cost to municipalities of providing social overheads
such as water, sewerage, police protection, etc. (Rs 1.3 million);
(c)  reduced losses through use of heated air dryers to reduce the
moisture content of rain-affected grain (Rs 0.3 million); and
(d)  reduced storage losses (Rs 0.4 million).
The estimated economic rate of return is at least 15% on this basis.
6.03      These estimates were based on data collected in the field and on
other studies in MIysore and other states in India for similar commodities.
No value was placed on the benefit of reduced congestion to other (nonmarket)
users of the bazaar. Prices received by farmers under the project would go
up by an unknown amount over the life of the project as a result of improved
marketing efficiency. If prices to farmers increased by a very modest 1.0%
this would result in induced additional prcduction worth Rs. 4.8 million 1/,
net of production costs, at full development.
6.04      It has not been possible to estimate the distribution of project
benefits among large farmers, small farmers, transport firms, market inter-
mediaries, municipalities, and consumers. However, it is clear that farmers
would greatly benefit through the greater assurance of competitive marketing
and the avoidance of malpractices. This is particularly important for the
700,000 small farmers (under 2 ha) expected to benefit under the project
wnose bargaining power has typically been less than large farmers'. These
farmers would benefit most from the improved market intelligence that the
project would make possible.
6.05      Employment would be stimulated by market construction, which
would require about 10,000 man years. Direct permanent employment would be
only marginally increased by the project, since RMCs would employ staffs
regardless of the project. However, the project is expected to be a key
link in a growing and increasingly sophisticated agricultural marketing
and processing system with considerable productive employment potential.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  the Public Works and Town Planning Department would
generally assist SMD in project planning and super-
vision (para 4.05);
1/   Assuming that one-half of the value of incremental production is an
addition to net income and supply elasticity is 0.4%.



- 22 -
(b) all RMCs under the project will be required to charge a
market fee of 1% of the value of product traded (para 4.06);
(c)  SMD would carry out training of personnel as described
in paras 4.19 through 4.21; and
(d)  within six months of effectiveness Sl1D would enter into
a contract with an appropriate economic research institu-
tion to evaluate the economic impact of project facilities
(para 4.22).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that:
(a) a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA between
GOI and ARC had been executed (para 3.17); and
(b) that SlID had obtained the services of at least one suitably
experienced engineer, one architect and one economist
with experience and qualifications acceptable to
IDA (para 4.05).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit iof US$8 million
under IDA standard terms.
March 7, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Agriculture of Mysore
Agricultural Structure
1.        According to provisional 1969-70 Agricultural Census data, some
6.7 million persons are engaged in agriculture, representing 65% of the
total working population, compared with the 1966 estimate of 70%. The total
land area in the State is some 19.0 million ha, and of this 62% is cultivated
(of which about one-seventh is fallow), 15% forested, and 23% barren,
uncultivated or used for nonagricultural purposes. The State produces a
wide diversity of crops. Of the cultivated land area, 73% is under food crops
and 27% under nonfood crops, primarily oilseeds (11%) and cotton (9%).
2.        In 1955-56, the average farm size was 4.4 ha, with almost one half
of the holdings less than 2 ha. The 1955-56 data on land holdings is given
below:
Distribution of Land Holdings by Size, 1955-56
Size of Holdings     No. of Holdings      Percentage      Area    Percentage
(ha)                ('000)          of Total      ('000 ha) of Total
Below 2.0                  1,164             47.3       1,119.42      10.3
2.0 - 4.0                    540             21.9       1,585.58      14.6
4.0 - 6.0                    263             10.7       1,313.82      12.1
6.0 - 12.0                   317             12.8       2,674.62      24.7
12.0 - 24.0                  138              5.6       2,150.96      19.8
24.0 - 40.5                   30              1.2         895.05       8.3
40.5 - 81.0                   11              0.4         580.77       5.4
81.0 and above                 3              0.1         526.10       4.8
2,466           100.0       10,846.32    100.0
Preliminary results of the World Agricultural Census 1970-71 indicate that
the number of holdings in the State has increased dramatically since 1955-56,
suggesting a reduction in the proportion of agricultural land occupied by
larger farms.
Area Under Crops
3.        About two-thirds of the State's 10.8 million ha of cropped area
in 1969-70 were devoted to foodgrains, predominantly cereals. Jowar (sorghum)
accounted for 25% of the cropped area, rice (paddy) 11%, pulses 11% and ragi
9%. Oilseeds (mainly groundnuts) accounted for 11% and cotton 9%. The total



ANNEX 1
Page 2
cropped area increased slightly (about 3%) between 1965-66 and 1969-70.
Total area under foodgrains dropped by about 8% between 1965-66 and 1970-71
mainly because of declines in jowar, ragi and pulses. The area under maize,
although still small, tripled over the period (to 64,000 ha). The area under
oilseeds has remained stable, with declines in the area under groundnut being
offset by increases in linseed and safflower. The area under other crops
(including plantation crops and vegetables) increased over the period. A
detailed breakdown of area under crops is shown in Appendix 1-1.
Crop Production and Yields
4.        Production of foodgrains reached almost 6 million tons in 1970-71,
consisting mainly of jowar (34%), rice (33%), ragi (15%), and pulses (7%).
Other important crops included sugarcane (about 8.5 million ton), oilseeds
(almost 700,000 ton) and cotton (443,000 bales). In addition, the State
produces a wide variety of plantation crops such as coffee and coconut,
fruits and vegetables, and spices. Production of principal crops is detailed
in Appendix 1-2.
5.        Total production of cereals increased by about 50% over the decade
ending 1970-71, due entirely to increases in yield. Physical yields are
shown in Appendix 1-3 and index numbers of yields in Appendix 1-4. Yield
improvements for most crops have been achieved since the drought year of
1965, although over the past decade improvements have been less impressive
in some cases. For example, cereals yields have increased by about 50%,
pulses and oilseeds by about 30%, but cotton hardly at all. Some of the
increased yield in cereals is due to the high-yielding varieties program
which has grown rapidly and by 1970-71 covered 9% of the total area under
cereals. The increased cereals production enabled the State to consider
itself surplus in foodgrains in 1970-71 1/.
Irrigation
6.        In recent years various measures have been taken to harness water
resources for agriculture and tbte area under irrigation has increased by
over 50% in the last nine years, equivalent to a rate of about 5% per annum.
However, Mysore, with about 13% of total cultivated land irrigated, is
still largely dryland when compared with an average for all India of 25%.
The development of irrigation together with introduction of new practices is
central to the State's strategy for attaining self-sufficiency in agricul-
tural production. The area covered by irrigation increased from 1.165 mil-
lion ha in 1966-67 to 1.30 million ha in 1969-70. In 1969/70, 57% of this
was under rice production, 17% under other cereals, 9% under sugarcane and
only 2% under cotton. About 65% of areas devoted to rice was irrigated, up
from 56% in 1965/66. For all cereals the percentage of area irrigated is
1/ Production compared to the State's own requirements estimated on the
basis of 425 grams of cereals and 85 grams of pulses per adult per
day and allowing 10% for seed and animal requirements.



ANNE 1
Page 3
increasing but was still only 16% in 1969-70. Almost all of the sugarcane
but only about 4% of the cotton is irrigated. About 40% of the land is
irrigated by canals, 38% by tanks and the remainder by wells and other
sources.
7.        The State Government hopes to double the area under irrigation to
some 2.6 million ha by 1978-79. Most of this would be derived from a three-
fold increase in major and medium irrigation involving State Government
investment in canal construction. This investment would mainly take place
in six districts which together account for 75% of the projected increase
in acreage. The districts to benefit most from these schemes (in order of
projected absolute increases in area under irrigation) are: Gulbarga,
Bijapur, Raichur, Dharwar, Bellary and Belgaum.
8.        The State considers that the crop to benefit most from these
schemes would be cotton, for which nearly a fourfold increase in production
is projected over the period 1969-70 to 1978-79. Cereals would also benefit
from irrigation expansion, increasing, according to existing plans for
development, by 48% from 5 million ton in 1969-70 to 7.3 million ton in
1978-79. The greatest increase would be in the production of jowar, from
1.6 million ton to 2.5 million ton representing a 59% increase over the
period. Groundnuts would also increase, from 0.6 ton to 0.9 million ton,
representing a 50% increase.
9.        The projected increases in irrigation over the next nine years are
ambitious, representing a doubling in the annual rate of growth and a three-
fold increase in absolute growth compared to the comparable period in the
immediate past. Some of the growth would result from accelerating on-farm
use of water already available from previously constructed dams and major
canals. The planned increase, from 1.26 million ha in 1969-70 to 2.63
million ha in 1978-79, an increase of almost 1.4 million ha, will be
difficult to attain. Nevertheless, considerable increases in irrigation
are likely to occur, substantiating the need for greater marketing facilities.
October 2, 1972






ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Area Under Principal Crops
('000 ha)
1965-55  1966-67  1967-68  1968-69  1969-70  1970-71
Foodgrains:
Rice                       1,149    1,189    1,116    1,128    1,138    1,160
Jowar                      2,877    2,773    2,560    2,542    2,622    2,594
Ragi                       1,260    1,163       979       998       978      974
Bajra                        499       529      499       545       534       510
Small millets                446       389      439       462       402      446
Wheat                        249       286      309       326       304       305
Other cereals (mainly
maize and barley)          25       32        39        55        63       67
Total Cereals          6,505    6,360    5,980    6,057    6,042    6,056
Pulses                     1,319    1,351    1,262    1,335    1,182    1,131
Total Foodgrains       7,824    7,711    7,242    7,392    7,224    7,187
Oilseeds:
Groundnut                    903       922      966       933       833       837
Other                        288       288      314       323       338       342
Total Oilseeds          1,191    1,210    1,280    1,256    1,171    1,179
Sugarcane                      89        90       93       106        91        97
Cotton                      1,005       979      941       948    1,006        995
Other                         321       477      861       853    1,302         NA /1
TOTAL CROPPED AREA   10,430   10,467   10,417   10,555   10,794            NA
/1   NA - not available
Some totals do not add due to rounding.
Source:   Statistical Abstract of Mysore 1970-71.
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECTS
Production of Principal Crops
('000 tons unless otherwise noted)
1962-63  1963-64  1964-65  1965-66  1966-67  1967-68  1968-69  1969-70  1970-71
Foodgrains:
Rice                         1,512    1,513    1,751    1,240    1,650    1,251    2,029    2,117    1,953
Jowar                        1,357    1,428    1,550    1,310    1,309    1,322    1,652    1,717    2,024
Ragi                           868       889      845       334       698       559      523       857       919
Bajra                          131       174        96      122       146       166      153       222       263
Small millets                  148      149       135       124      113       117       153        97        98
Wheat                           88        95       108       47        41       105      157        92        95
Maize                           10        11         7       11        16        47      1o4       185       205
Other                           _         -         -         4         5         1         3         2        2
Total Cereals             4,114    4,259    4492    3,192    3,9?         8 3, 5 8    4,774    5,289 5 ,599
Palses                         338       353       41        5        315    _86         47        438       404
Total Foodgrains         ,17T2    4,612    448         3         ,2       399 5,211    5,727    5,963
Oilseeds
Groundnut                      500       540      662       433       562       587      635       510       613
Other                           71        63      111        46        64        6         75       69        82
Total Oilseeds              571      603       773       479       50652              710       579    679
Sugarcane                       5,801    6,978    6,748    6,959    7,924    8,656    9,569    8,815    8,483
Cotton (in '000 bales of          403       367       513      233       273       280       330      339       443
180 kg. lint)
Sources:  Statistical Abstract of Mysore 1970-71, and                                                                  :J
Bureau of Economics and Statistics.
I"2
October 2, 1972



ANNEX 1
Anpendix 1 -3
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Yield per Hectare of Principal Crops
(in kg unless otherwise noted)
Crops                   1965-66  1966-67  1967-68  1968-69  1969-70  1970-71
Rice                       .  ...   1,136    1,461    1,181    1,893    1,958    1,772
Jowar                     ..   ..     479       497      535       684      689       821
257      290       349      296      438       544
670    1,266    2,032    3,230    3,1400
632      601       552      922      993
290      268       332      240       219
:152     356       508      318       326
5,309    4,552      ,97h    4,369    4,363
93       98        95       89        92
642      639       716      644       771
53       56       66        64        65
Source:  Statistical Abstract of Mysore 1970-71.
October 2,1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Index Numbers of Agricultural Productivity
1962-63 1963-64 1964-65 1965-66 1966-67 1967-68 1968-69 1969X-70 1970-71
Cereals     2                        3         4       5        6       7       8        9      10
Rice             ..  ..   ..  103.1   101.1   110.7    80.0   102.8    83.1   133.1   150.0
Jowar             ..   ..  ..  114.1   121.3   133.4   116.7   121.0   130.4   166.5   177.0   125.0
Ragi             ..  ..  ..  103.8   106.7   103.5    33.2    75.2    71.5    65.5   112.4  200.0
Bajra             ..  ..  ..  102.3   144.4    99.3   109.8   124.0   149.4   126.1   194.4   119.0
Wheat             ..  ..  ..   122.2   134.4   162.3    83.4 - 63.3   150.0   212.5   185.1    NA
Maize             ..   ..   ..    71.4    78.6    71.3    55.5    66.7   127.1   203.9   187.4    NA
Small millets    ..  ..  ..   122.6   114.2   107.6    92.1    96.1    667   108.3    79.0    NA
Total Cereals    ..  ..  ..  107.7   112.2   118.5    83.5   106.5   101.5   134.0   158.2   156.0
Total Pulses         ..  ..  ..    95.4   100.4   103.8    97.5   111.9   111-.L   119.3   125.9   130.0
Total Foodgrains    ..  ..  ..  107.2   111.7   118.4    84.8   106.8   102.3   137.2   156.1   156.0
Oilseeds             ..  ..   ..  lo.6   115.5   137.5    92.1   118.4  118.7   129.4   102.7   135.0
Cotton               ..  ..  ..  100.2    88.1    74.4    57.5    69.1    73.7    76.0    86.2   110.0
9ugarcane           ..  ..   ..  108.7   119.3   104.9   108.2   120.5   128.9   124.9   115.9
I/   Base:  Three-year period ending 1961-62 = 100.
Source:     Statistical Abstract of Mysore 1970-71.
October 2, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Wholesale Marketing of Agricultural Products
A. Pattern of Sale of Marketable Surplus
1.        Farmers sell their marketable surpluses in a variety of ways:  to
village or itinerant merchants, at nearby periodic (usually weekly) village
markets, direct to mills (e.g. paddy mills), or to traditional markets in
towns (now generally regulated). Because of the many farmers and buyers,
the percentage of production that is marketed is difficult to measure but
has been estimated at around 50%, with the balance consumed on the farm.
About one-half of estimated market surplus (25% of production) passes through
regulated markets.
2.        Historically, the pattern of trade and distribution has differed
according to the type of commodity, depending on location and manner of
ultimate use. For industrial crops (e.g. cotton and groundnuts) the main
wholesale buyers have been cotton ginners and oil millers who process the
goods and then ship their products throughout India. The ginners and millers
have relied on the major wholesale markets that grew up to obtain their
supplies, leaving to itinerant village merchants or the farmers themselves
the arrangement of production-finance and the transport of their goods to
the wholesale markets. Paddy (surplus above the farm's own consumption
needs) has generally gone direct to a local mill for milling and sale to
the local market. These mills (over 6,000 in the State, principally of
the huller type) are very small. The mills and owners often also perform
a money-lending function and also buy products at the fatm or village and
transport to the mill. Other foodgrains and specialized crops (e.g. spices)
have generally been brought to wholesale markets (often by the grower himself)
where a commission agent, who also advanced production and other tredit
to producers, arranged sale. Within each of the categories many different
relationships have grown up depending on local conditions and needs.
3.        Middlemen operating in markets vary greatly as to size and scope
of activity. Broadly, three groups predominate. Commission Agents receive
goods from farmers, arrange sale and deduct a commission (after regulation
this is limited to 1.5% of the proceeds of sale) for services.  The commission
agent also provides credit to the grower for part or all of his production
and other credit needs. Grower/commission agent relationships are often
of long-standing, sometimes extending over generations. The commission agent
also provides short-term storage (free up to 15 days) for the farmer and
may supply inputs. Traders buy goods, store, accumulate into larger lots
and sell, depending on commodity, to merchants in other towns or to other



ANNEX 2
Page 2
classes of buyer. Volumes handled vary considerably between traders and
for the same trader between years. Some traders buy in a number of markets
(either on different days of the week or at different seasons). Processors
(e.g. cotton ginners or oil millers) buy from the market for their needs.
Purchases may be speculative (in large lots when the market is low) or
hand-to-mouth.
4.        Often a single individual will act as commission agent for some
farmers or commodities and trade in commodities of other growers. Sometimes
a single firm will operate in all three activities.
B. Regulation of Sale at Wholesale Markets
5.        In earlier times, in the absence of regulated trading a variety
of practices were followed which were to the disadvantage of the farmer.
Commission agents who had lent money to producers sometimes used their
resulting positions of strength to exact a high commission or to purchase
the goods, to the disadvantage of the producer. A variety of other mal-
practices in weighing and payment were also engaged in to the disadvantage
of producers.
6.        In order to protect producers, various attempts have been made to
regulate weighing, grading, and the levying by buyers of various charges and
commissions. Mysore is fairly well advanced among the Indian states in
its regulation of wholesale trade under the Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Regulation) Act 1966. Under this Act, the State Marketing Department (SMD)
is responsible for regulating the trade through Regulated Market Committees
(RMCs) which have been formed to supervise the trade in a particular market
area. RMCs are bodies created under the Act with broad powers to regulate
trade, own facilities, borrow, and levy fees. Directors of the RMCs are
elected from constituencies of growers, traders, commission agents, coop-
eratives, and regional government.  SMD provides, on a cost basis, the key
staff (generally the market secretary, accountant, and internal auditor)
of the RMC. Currently, 99 RMCs operate, mainly in small and medium-sized
centers as shown below:
Centers of Urban               % of Total
Population                   Markets
Over 100,000                      7.1
50,000 - 100,000                  8.6
20,000 -  50,000                 25.7
10,000 -  20,000                 44.3
5,000 -  10,000                 12.9
Under 5,000                       1.4
Many RMCs are small and of recent origin; two-thirds had total revenues of
less than Rs 100,000 in the most recent year.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Types of Transactions
7.        The three most prevalent types of sale are direct negotiation,
auction, and tender. After an RMC is formed and notifies certain commodities
as regulated, sale is made either by auction or tender. Under the auction
system, interested buyers attend auctions supervised by the RMC on the
premises of the commission agents or at an auction platform in the market
yard. In all cases the goods being auctioned are on view for inspection.
The auctions are in a set sequence at the various locations (shops and
platforms). In a large market the auctions may take over four hours to
complete. Under the tender system the goods are displayed as with the
auction system but interested buyers can visit the premises at any time up
to a deadline (generally noon) by which time they must deposit a sealed bid
with the RMC. Many RMCs favor the tender system because it results in less
crowding and loss of time than auction.
Quantities Traded at Regulated Markets
8.        The principal crops traded at the regulated markets on a State-wide
basis, in order of importance in tonnage of arrivals, are: ragi, groundnuts,
cotton, jowar, and rice. The production and arrivals at markets of the
principal commodities are shown in Appendix 2-1. Overall, the tonnage of
market arrivals doubled between 1966-67 and 1970-71 due partly to an
increase in physical arrivals and partly to better reporting and greater
coverage of commodities under regulation.
9.        The proportion of production arriving at regulated markets varies
considerably between crops as shown by the following table.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Arrivals at Regulated Markets 1970-71
(analysis of weights, not values)
% of                                      Comments on
Total Production                             Performance over
Reaching Regulated        Composition         Last 5 Years of
Wholesale Markets      of Market Arrivals       Arrivals to
1970-71             in Percentages       Regulated Markets
Ragi                    48                     27             4-5  annual growth
Jowar                    6                      9             Small decrease
Rice                     5                       5            15% annual growth
Others                 varied                   9             4-5 times growth
due to baira and
wheat
Total Cereals           12                     50
Pulses                  36                      9             8% growth per annum
Spices                  86                      5
Groundnuts              53                     20             Slight growth
Cotton                  57                     12             8% growth per annum
Potatoes                97                      2
Tobacco                 64                       2
100            Overall growth
1966-67 to 1970-71
about 9% per year.
About 90% of the production of spices comes to regulated markets, but only
about 16% of cereals (excluding the minor crop, wheat). For rice the
figure is the lowest, at 5%, although the volume of rice arrivals has
doubled over the last five years. Apart from ragi, which is grown in a
localized area, the proportion of cereal production delivered to regulated
markets is small, reflecting its role for subsistence purposes. By contrast,
over 50% of the principal cash crops, cotton and groundnuts, are delivered
to the regulated markets.
Impact of RMCs
10.       Where RMCs are well-established they have generally been successful
in:
regulating the charges levied by commission agents;
supervising weighing of produce;
prohibiting a commission agent from acting as both agent
and buyer on the same transaction;
requiring a written bill of sale, showing all deductions
including finance charges, to be provided for each sale;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
requiring payment to the farmer on the day of sale; and
-    introducing sale by auction or tender.
11.       Even where RMCs are well-established, some problems remain.  For
the majority of markets trade is conducted in the bazaar areas of market
towns. These areas are dirty, crowded and unhygienlic. The congestion
causes delays to farmers, market intermediaries (traders, commission agents,
etc.) and other users of the towns. For trucks, which currently transport
about 30% of the tonnage of arrivals to the markets and 80% of departures,
the cost of delays is substantial. The effective supervision of trade and
the proper display of goods is almost impossible. Where RMCs have made
investments to develop new yards they have generally had insufficient
funds to complete the job. In other cases the RMCs have made investments
in a new yard but the market intermediaries have not had sufficient funds
to construct their shops-cum-godowns, with the result that the bulk of the
trade has remained in the bazaar.
C. Transport and Storage
Transport
12.       Something over two-thirds of the tonnage of the commodities
marketed are transported from farm to mill or market by bullock cart,
generally by the farmer himself. Movement is at a speed of 4 to 5 km/hr and
the distance moved is generally within eight hours travel each way (i.e.
within a radius of 35 km). Lot sizes are small and movement is almost
always of sacked goods rather than of bulk. For foodgrains, each bullock
cart can carry up to one ton (for less dense commodities the weight load
would be less) and each bullock cartload generally consists of a number of
commodities, each of which must be traded separately. The small size of
lot results in a great many transactions per given quantity of arrivals;
this situation is related to small farm size and will persist for the
foreseeable future.
13.       Some larger farmers or groups of farmers use trucks to move their
surpluses to market but this accounts for less than one-third of the
tonnage of market arrivals. A majority of goods leaving the market goes by
truck.
Storage
14.       Some storage is carried out at the farm, both for subsistence
needs and on speculation, generally using traditional storage techniques.
No data are available on the quantities stored on the farm but the quantities
involved, beyond subsistence needs, are believed small, due mainly to the
farmers' need to sell in order to get immediate cash. Storage in trade
channels consists of traders' godowns, godowns owned or operated by the



ANNEX 2
Page 6
State and Central Warehouse Corporation (SWC), godowns of the State Govern-
ment (Food and Civil Supplies Department) and by cooperative marketing
societies. A survey in early 1972 indicated the following approximate
capacities:
Metric Tons
Traders and Commission Agents               340,000
Food and Civil Supplies Department           50,000
Cooperative Marketing Societies             310,000
State and Central Warehouse Corporations
(about 60% leased; 40% owned)            120,000
820,000
15.       These capacity figures are only approximate because of different
definitions of a "ton" of storage capacity (depending on the density of the
commodity stored) and of space required for aisles, etc., but give some
idea of magnitude. Aggregate capacity equalled about one-half of market
arrivals to regulated markets in 1970-71.
16.       Storage is entirely in sacks and identity of individual lots is
almost always maintained. The protection from birds, rodents and insects
varies considerably. The best storage is probably maintained by SWC which
also maintains a program of spraying of its stocks while in storage. It
also issues warehouse receipts which can be discounted by the banking
system, although limits on the discounting of warehouse receipts are
placed by the Reserve Bank of India. Other commodities - particularly
fertilizers - are stored in the godowns at various seasons.
D. Grades, Standards and Marketing Intelligence
Grades and Standards
17.       All commodities are at present purchased on the basis of
personal inspection of a particular lot. Buyers visually determine variety
and estimate moisture and foreign matter content in deciding how much to
pay for a particular lot. Attempts have been made at several major markets
to employ (especially for cotton) government grading according to GOI
standards as spelled out in the Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation)
Act 1937. Government graders grade for staple length and strength, moisture
and foreign matter content, and color. This grading is done visually and
by feel. Market users find this service a useful check but invariably also
examine the goods themselves.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.       Effective grading classifies a product by factors relating to
this market value, thereby: reducing the buyer's risk of offering too much
and the seller's risk of accepting too little in a particular transaction,
permitting improved market intelligence, permitting sale by description,
thus eliminating the need for visual inspection, permitting co-mingling
of like grades from different owners in transport and in storage, and
stimulating producers to produce and traders to maintain a high level of
product quality to the benefit of consumers.
19.       The grading currently being carried out in the state has not been
popular with farmers and traders because the time required for grading
sometimes delays the day's auctions, the product is sometimes improperly
graded, and the grade factors used sometimes do not reflect the product's
value to the buyer.
20.       Grade factors such as fiber length and strength and ginning
percentage (for cotton), oil content, kernel/shell ratio, and size (for
groundnuts) and kernel type and cooking characteristics (for paddy) are
mainly variety characteristics. They usually can be satisfactorily
determined by visual inspection. Other important grade factors such as
moisture content, percent of extraneous material, and damage require
representative samples and objective measurements. These latter requirements
have not been achieved in present grading procedures at the regulated
markets.
21.       Laboratory equipment can be purchased for sample analysis and
technicians can be trained to use the equipment. Means for checking to
ensure the validity of a laboratory's analysis are relatively simple.
However, an analysis is no better than the sample and representative
samples are often very difficult to draw from a lot. Moisture content,
for example, may vary greatly throughout, depending upon recent exposure
to the sun or rain. Satisfactory sampling techniques do not exist for
some products handled and stored in bags. Extraneous materials such as
straw, weed seeds, and dirt, even when homogeneously mixed in grain, may not
enter a "grain trier" in correct proportion. Damage is a vague term in
grades. What is damage to one consumer may not be damage to another,
depending upon end use and personal preference. Damage is usually measured
subjectively and grades determined by that means are subject to controversy.
These limitations must be overcome before the potential benefits of product
grading are achieved in the regulated markets. The major problems facing
SMD in further developing sampling and grading in the State are:
(a) developing adequate sampling techniques to ensure that
representative samples are drawn from lots; and
(b) maintaining complete honesty in all personnel responsible
for sample analysis and the issuing of Official Grade
Certificates.
The problems can be overcome but this will take time. The training facilities
and equipment provided for in the proposed project would assist in achieving
an effective system of grades and standards.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Marketing Intelligence
22.            Both RMCs and SMD publicize prices prevailing at particular
markets; however, the usefulness of the information currently provided
is questionable in many cases. For certain crops (e.g. paddy) many
different varieties are delivered to the market. These have different
cooking characteristics, appearances and other factors important to buyers
and therefore fetch different prices. Published prices often do not
reflect variety differences. Similarly, prices for the same variety vary
according to differences in cleanliness, moisture content and condition.
Prices published often are in the form of a range (e.g. Ragi Rs 58-75 per
quintel), sometimes together with the mode for the day. This information
is of questionable value to a particular farmer planning the sale of a
particular variety and condition. Improved grading and a more detailed
recording of price information are important to the smooth functioning of
the markets.
October 2, 1972



MYSORE AGRICULTURAI. MAWA(@TS PRO,JFCT
ProcAction and Arrivals to Regulated Wholesale Mar-kets from~ 1 966-67 through 1970-71
('000 tons unless otherwise noted)
1966-67                            1967-68                              1968-69                             1969-70                              1970-71
Arrivals                            krrivals as                         Arrivals                            Arrivals                             Arrivals
as t of                            as % of                              as % of                             as % of                              as % of
Production  Arrivals  Production  Production  Arrivals  Production  Production  Arrivals  Production  Production  Arrivals  lroduction  Production  Arrivals  lroduction
Maior Cereals:
Rice                            1o650        45          3          1,251        63          5          2,029        75          3          2,117        88          4           1,953        93         5%
Jowar                           1 309       149         11          1,322       167         13          1,652       131          8          1,717       122          7           2,024       133         6
Ragi                               598      346         50            559       354         63            523       375         72             857      437         51             919       440        48
Baira                              146        9          6            166        13          7            153        22         14             222        36        16             263        46        17
Maize                               i6        3         19             47         3          6            104         3          3             185         9         5             205        *2         6
Wheat                               41        8         19            105        12         12            157        i6         11              92       35         37              95        71        76
Subtotal                     3,  0       50         147          3,450   46128                        17T                   13           5,190       727         54        7          1    5
Pulses                                315       92         29            386        95         25            437       109         25             438      138         31             404       146        36
Potatoes                               41       35         87              42       39         93              37       36         S7              37        35        97               36       36        97
Black Pepper and Chillies              29       23         80              30       25         83              34       29         85              33        30        91               34       32        94
.6bacco                               15         1         7              16         1         6              17         1          6              20       10         50              43        28        65
Major Oilseeds-
Groundnuts                         552      258         48            587       271         46            635       288         45             510      290         57             513       325        53
Other Oilseeds  !                   57       29        50               S4       44         69              72       52         72              78        63        81              80        65        81
Subtotal                                 297                       651       315                                                            50 707  340    8  353  7             93       390 
Cotton (in 'OOOs of bales
of lin' of 180 kg 1         273       136        50             280       147        52             330       144         44             339      161         47             343       196        57
Source, State Marketing Department
October 2, 1972
x' 






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Credit in Mysore
1.        Historically, long-term agricultural credit has been provided by
the Mysore State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and its federated
Primary Land Development Banks (PLDBs), while medium-and short-term credit
have been provided by the Mysore State Cooperative Apex Bank Limited (CAB)
and its 19 affiliated District Central Cooperative banks (DCCs), mainly through
primary agricultural credit societies. Since nationalization in 1969, however,
commercial bank lending to agriculture has increased substantially and, with
the rapid expansion of the commercial banks branch network under the Lead
Bank Schemel/ it is anticipated that the commercial banks will play an in-
creasingly important role in the supply of agricultural credit.
2.        The LDB was registered in 1929 with headquarters in Bangalore.  It
now has 19 branches (one in each district) and is the apex organization for
a Statewide network of 170 PLDBs. The LDB loan portfolio increased from
Rs 93 million (US$12.7 million) at end June 1965 in 1964/65 to Rs 366 million
(US$50 million) at end June 1970 and, while its arrears position has been
a cause for concern it is anticipated that this will markedly improve
following managerial and organizational changes introduced at IDA's instiga-
tion, in connection with the Mysore Agricultural Credit Project 1971.
3.        CAB, registered in 1915, also with headquarters in Bangalore, pro-
vides finance for various purposes but principally short-term production
credit through the DCCs except in a few isolated cases, notably a loan to
the State Cooperative Marketing Federation for the purchase and distribution
of chemical fertilizers. Its primary agricultural lending during 1970/71
totalled Rs 265.7 million (US$36.6 million) of which 96% was of one year
maturity or less compared with Rs 129.2 million (US$17.8 million) -- 98%
short term -- in 1966/67. A substantial portion of CAB lending is refinanced
by the Reserve Bank of India but it has recently begun to operate several
Agricultural Refinance Corporation projects including a Rs 7.7 million
(US$1.1 million) scheme for the construction of godowns by agricultural
marketing cooperatives and a Rs 5.5 million (US$0.76 million) scheme for
godown construction in irrigation areas of Raichur and Bellary Districts.
4.        There are 13 major commercial banks operating in Mysore State
(Appendix 3-1) of which 10 are nationalized. Together they provide
about 1,200 branches throughout the State, the most important being the
Syndicate Bank (246 branches), Canara Bank (222) and the State Bank of India
Group (249). Loans outstanding by the 13 commercial banks to 113,000
1/   See Annex 13.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
farmers in the State totalled Rs 280 million at December 31, 1971, a 3-1/2-
fold increase since June 1969. Total agriculturally-related lending
(including loans to both farmers and agro-industries) by the commercial
banks totalled Rs 415 million at end 1971.
5.        Commercial banks now form a very important element of institutional
credit for agriculture in the State. However, lending is to only about 5%
of the farmers in the State and the fairly large average size of loan
(a balance of Rs 2,500 per farmer at year-end 1971) suggests that lending
is oriented to larger farmers.
6.        Non-institutional credit from traditional sources continues to be
important in the total supply of credit for agriculture.
November 27, 1972



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3-1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Principal Commercial Banks Operating in Mysore
State Bank of India Group
State Bank of India
State Bank of Hyderabad
State Bank of Mysore
Nationalized Banks
Allahabad Bank
Bank of Baroda
Bank of India
Bank of Maharashtra
Canara Bank
Central Bank of India
Dena Bank
Indian Bank
Indian Overseas Bank
Punjab National Bank
Syndicate Bank
Union Bank of India
United Commercial Bank
Banks with Private Ownership
Karnataka Bank
Karur Vysya Bank
Vijaya Bank
All these banks are scheduled, i.e., are included in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act 1935. They have paid up capital
and reserves of at least Rs 0.5 million and are entitled to certain borrowing
facilities from the Reserve Bank of India.
October 2, 1972






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term finance
to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, directing and
guiding such institutions toward a development-oriented approach in their
operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), state-
level cooperative land development/mortgage banks, state cooperative banks
and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, insurance and investment companies, and others approved by the Govern-
ment of India). The Act of Parliament under which ARC operates 1/ provides
that of its share capital RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%, the coopera-
tive land development banks and state cooperative banks to not more than 30%,
and other institutions to not more than 20%.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine members,
three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors represent
RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board); three the Government of
India (at present the Secretary, Department of Agriculture, and the Additional
Secretary, Department of Cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and a
Joint Secretary, Department of Banking of the Ministry of Finance); and three
directors are elected, one each by the central land development banks, by the
state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation of India,
scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is assisted
by a managerial staff of nearly 110 (as of March 1972) of whom about 80 are
based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not employ any special-
ists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for technical advice in
appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants' advice, ARC has
established a technical division which, as of March 1972 comprised three
specialists, including an expert in groundwater development, and an agricul-
tural economist and to which ARC proposes to make further appointments. With
the increasing volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build up its
staff at all levels and has prepared a staff development plan to cover the
period to the end of 1973.
1/ Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 (No. 10 of 1963).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has 14 regional offices (Ahme-
dabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bombay, Calcutta, Chandigarh, Hydera-
bad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivandrum) which assist
banks and state governments in formulating agricultural development projects
for financing, clarify ARC's policies and procedures when required, undertake
preappraisal of projects submitted and supervise general execution of projects
under ARC financing.
Lending Policies
6.        The ARC Act provides that it shall be guided by such directions in
matters of policy involving public interest as GOI may, after consulting RBI,
give in writing. ARC can extend financial assistance only to central or
state-level land development/mortgage banks (LDBs), state cooperative banks,
and other scheduled (commercial) banks; in exceptional cases, and with RBI
approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at the farm level.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but also circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of farmers.
Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large number of farmers.
9.        Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants drawn
from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the Central
Ground Water Board (formerly the Exploratory Tubewells Organization), the
Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are also used
and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in every case. Some important
points examined in the case of schemes for minor irrigation include: an
estimate of the quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water recharge,
annual water draft, taking into account the existing and proposed wells, and
the type of pumpsets needed. With the establishment of its own technical
division, increasing back-up support is now available from ARC's own special-
ist staff which will provide a foundation of technical expertise for scheme
appraisal and supervision throughout India.
10.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some of
the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability of
the cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development, farmer's
repayment capacity, efficiency of the project executing agency, arrangements
for the provision of short-term credits and marketing arrangements. Pre-
appraisal is done generally by regional offices, but final evaluation is
made in Bombay.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Lending Terms
11.       ARC refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by LDBs and through loans to commercial banks. Special debentures
are backed by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans refiranced under
the issue and in addition are guaranteed by the state government concerned.
Loans to commercial banks are secured by mortgages or hypothecation on assets
financed and generally also carry a state government guarantee.
12.       Prior to the participation of IDA in ARC operations, the special
debentures were repayable in one sum at the end of the loan period and ARC
required that collections from farmers in the interium be placed in a sink-
ing fund. Such sinking funds (similar arrangements exists for ordinary
debentures issued by LDB's) are invested in GOI securities and are also used
to purchase the debentures of LDB's (including the repurchase of their own
debentures). In the case of the IDA-supported projects it was considered
preferable to give ARC the benefit of the re-use of funds realized from
farmers' collections: the repayment of special debentures under such projects
are therefore scheduled approximately to match farmers collections and the
sinking fund arrangements do not therefore apply. The same arrangements
exist in respect of loans issued to commercial banks. Periods of refinance
are determined after a study of the repayment capacity of farmers based on
farm models. Although ARC may lend for medium-term (3-5 years), most of its
refinancing has been for long-term: the latter is in effect divided into
periods not exceeding nine or 15 years, reflecting the different terms on
which ARC borrows from GOI (para 23).
13.       Until 1967/68 ARC refinance was limited to 75% of loans made to
farmers for any purpose. In that year, however, ARC agreed to increase its
refinancing of minor irrigation investments up to 90%, other purposes (e.g.,
land leveling, farm mechanization) remaining at 75%. The balance is provided
in the case of LDBs by the state government concerned and in the case of
commercial banks, by the banks themselves. In 1971, ARC agreed that for a
limited period, it would refinance 100% of loans made to small farmers'
schemes under the aegis of the Small and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies.
14.       Since November 1970, ARC's lending rate has been 6-1/2% per annum
(it was previously 6%). Scheduled banks (commercial and state cooperative
banks) are required to charge their borrowers no more than an additional
2-1/2% and while LDBs are not bound by the same restriction they nevertheless
follow the same interest mark-up and none exceeds it. ARC reserve the right
to collect a commitment fee of 1/3% per annum on any shortfall against an
agreed schedule of drawings.
Lending Commitments
15.       The following table shows the growth of ARC's commitments (less
subsequent cancellations) during the eight years to June 30, 1971, the date
of the last ARC audited accounts:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Number of
Schemes             Total Schemes             ARC
Year                Approved                 Costs              Commitment
Rs M                  Rs M
1963/64                   3                     27.20                24.50
1964/65                  10                    206.00               168.80
1965/66                  24                    179.60               141.80
1966/67                  15                    105.30                85.30
1967/68                  89                    681.60               586.40
1968/69                 108                    792.10               693.20
1969/70                 142                    927.80               709.20
1970/71                 100                    621.50               539.20
491                 3,541.10              2,948.40
Less reductions
or withdrawals             33                    611.10               461.80
458                 2,930.00             2,486.60
16.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business due
to the need to establish the groundwork and bases for its operations and for
building up its staff. The above table shows in particular the growth which
has taken place since 1967/68 when ARC increased to 90% its refinancing of
minor irrigation schemes.
17.       Most of the schemes sanctioned have been for projects financed by
LDBs:
ARC Commitment
Rs M           % of Total
(a)  Land Development Banks              2,223.70            89.4
(b)  State Cooperative Banks               114.00             4.6
(c)  Scheduled Commercial Banks            148.90             6.0
Total               2,486.60          100.0
18.       About 85% of the cost of schemes approved for refinance have been
for minor irrigation and land development:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Total ARC
Schemes Approved       Commitment
% of                  % of
Number     Total      Rs M        Total
(a)  Minor Irrigation                       237        51.7   1,694.80        68.2
(b)  Land Development                        43         9.4      434.80       17.5
(c)  Tractor and Power Tillers               10         2.2       47.10        1.8
(d)  Soil Conservation                        2          .A       19.50       0.8
(e)  Plantations                            138        30.1      189.70        7.6
(f)  Poultry                                  7         1.6        4.80        0.2
(g)  Fisheries                               10         2.2       37.60        1.5
(h)  Dairying                                 5         1.1       13.80        0.6
(i)  Storage                                   6        1.3       45.10        1.8
Total                  458       100.0   2,486.60      100.0
Disbursements
19.       During the early years, ARC disbursements lagged behind the schedules
of drawings which had been agreed with the lending banks in the states but,
as the following table shows, this has improved in recent years partly as a
result of better administrative arrangements and partly through ARC's more
frequent recourse to imposing commitment fees:
Cumulative             Cumulative         Disbursements
Year                Scheduled Commitments       Disbursements      to Commitments
Rs M                   Rs M                   %
1963/64                       - 
1964/65                      4.47                    0.45                10.1
1965/66                       8.73                   4.90                56.1
1966/67                      14.30                   6.98                48.8
1967/68                     25.48                   12.65,               49.6
1968/69                      58.59                  30.49                 52.0
1969/70                     92.15                   59.09                64.1
1970/71                    125.67                   89.71                71.4
As of June 30, 1971, ARC had made no disbursements in respect of IDA credit
projects.
Source of Funds
20.       ARC initially made a share issue to the value of Rs 50 million for
which GOI guaranteed an annual dividend of 4-1/4%.  During 1971, ARC increased
its share capital to Rs 100 million and on the further shares issued a divi-
dend of 4-1/2% was guaranteed.
21.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources: (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI;
(b) issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings



ANNEX 4
Page 6
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI, the
state government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12 months.
Total borrowings and deposits received may not exceed 20 times the sum of
ARC's capital and surplus reserves.
22.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the eight years
to June 30, 1972, are summarized as follows (in Rs million):
Borrowings                 Deposits
Year             GOI             Market      RBI     Total    Received
1963/64           50.00             __         __      50.00      -_
1964/65              --             __         __        __       1.13
1965/66              --             --         --        --       1.25
1966/67              --             --                            1.26
1967/68           30.00             --         --      30.00      1.25
1968/69          177.50             --         --     177.50      1.26
1969/70          190.00           109.38       --     299.38      1.25
1970/71          220.00            85.25    75.20    380.45       1.25
Total       667.50           194.63    75.20    937.33       8.65
Between June 30, 1971 and March 31, 1972, ARC increased its borrowings from
GOI by Rs 28 million (US$3.8 million) representing the first drawings from
IDA under the agricultural credit projects. During this period also ARC
increased its market borrowings by a third bond issue to the value of
RS 82 million, and its temporary accommodation of Rs 75.20 million from RBI
has been in part replaced by a long-term loan of Rs 30 million from the RBI
Long-Term Operations (LTO) fund.
23.       Borrowings from GOI have been on the following terms:
Rs M           Interest P.A.                     Repayment
50.00             None                    30 years with 15-year grace
30.00             5-1/2%                 At end of 15 years
100.00             5-1/2%                 At end of 15 years
487.50              5%                    At end of nine years
667.50
With effect from June 1, 1971, GOI interest rates to ARC have been increased
by 1/2% per annum and are now therefore 5-1/2% on loans up to 10 years and 6%
on loans for 15 years. Since August 1968, ARC has been allowed a rebate of
1/4% on timely payments of interest on GOI borrowings.
24.       Interest rates payable by ARC on other borrowings are variable.
The first two market issues of ARC bonds are both dated 1982 and are at an
interest rate of 5-3/4%. The previous short-term borrowings from RBI at bank
rate (6%) have been replaced by LTO funds at 4-1/4% (para 22). The special



ANNEX 4
Page 7
deposits represent dividends payable on ARC's shares held by RBI and on which
ARC pays no interest.
Operating Results
25.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results to June 30, 1971
is summarized below (in Rs million):
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total       Net   Income   Before    Dividend       or
Year         Income  Expenses  Income    Tax   Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64       3.75       0.30    3.45    1.80       1.65        1.91      -0.26
1964/65       4.00       0.39    3.61    1.76       1.85        2.13      -0.28
1965/66       4.35       0.48    3.87    2.27       1.60        2.13      -0.53
1966/67       4.98       0.61    4.37    2.40       1.97        2.13      -0.16
1967/68       6.00       1.67    4.33    2.38       1.95        2.13      -0.18
1968/69      11.04       6.29    4.75    2.61       2.14        2.13       0.01
1969/70      27.28      20.55    6.73    3.70       3.03        2.13       0.92
1970/71      42.66      35.72    6.94    3.44       3.50        2.13       1.37
26.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern changed
when ARC began to expand its refinancing operations. In 1970/71 interest
received from loans and debentures represented 94% of total income received.
27.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the first
four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the time was
salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its expanded opera-
tion, interest paid on borrowed money has since 1967/68 been an important
item of expenses. In 1970/71 interest paid on borrowings and salaries and
employee benefits were 86% and 10%, respectively, of total expenses.
28.       ARC is in good financial condition (Appendix 4-1).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1971, is unimpaired by losses and its assets were in
GOI securities and debentures of land development banks, which are guaran-
teed by state governments. In accordance with its charter, ARC's accounts
are audited annually by accountants duly qualified under the All India
Companies Act of 1956 (the present auditors are Messrs. K. S. Aiyar and Co.).
Under the same Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not
found the need to exercise this power.
29.       Profitability.  Until 1968/69, net income after tax was insufficient
to meet ARC's fixed dividend of 4-1/4% annually and this deficiency had to be
made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee under the Act: ARC retains
the liability to reimburse GOI this sum (Rs 1.4 million) out of future profits.
Since 1968/69, however, profits have been sufficient to cover dividend payments
and leave ARC with a small surplus and this position significantly improved in
the subsequent two years.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
30.       In June 1971, ARC's profit margin was reduced by 1/2% increase in
its interest rates on borrowings from GOI (para 23), although the volume of
drawings at the higher rate will not be large enough to have an effect on
ARC's net income for some time. ARC's borrowing costs have also been increased
by a greater dependence on market borrowings (which with expenses effectively
amount to 6% annually) and its need to borrow more 15-year money from GOI
(to match preferential lending to small farmers) at the higher 5-3/4% interest
rate: against this ARC's lending rate is fixed at 6-1/2% annually. Partly
offsetting these increases, ARCts projections indicate increased recourse
to RBI's Long-Term Operations (LTO) fund which carries interest at 4-114%
only. Over the period 1972/73 to 1974/75, ARC drawings from GOI other than
IDA funds are estimated with Rs 640 million from RBI's LTO fund (presently
Rs 30 million). Over this same period drawings from GOI in respect of all
World Bank Group projects are estimated to be Rs 1,740 million (Appendix 4-2).
31.       The net effect of these projected drawings would be to increase
ARC's average borrowing rate marginally from 4.9% to 5.0%; on the lending
side, ARC's average interest rate is projected to increase from about 6.0% to
6.25% as ARC's higher lending rate of 6.5% increasingly comes into effect.
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICUL'1URAL WHOLESALE MAsEriS PHOJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Condensed Balance Sheets
At the end of Financial Years Indicated
1963/64             1964/65                      1965/66                      1966/67                       1967/68                     1968/69                      1969/70
Change frns                  Change f,Cam                 Change fron                  Change frms                  Change fran                  Change fran
ASSETS                                 RsN M        Ra M    Previors Date        Rs M     Previouss Date      Rs M     Pre-ls Date          Rs M     Previous Date      Rn M     Previous Date       Rs M     Previous Date
Cash on Hand and in Bsnk5s          .16        0.16        0.01             0.02         (0.15)          o.06         0.04             0.09        0.03            0.06        (0.03)           0.04        (0.02'
Investmaent                    l101.85        99.09      (2.76)            55.21        (43.88)         35.79       (19.42)            8.40       (27.39)          5.15        (.26)              99          .84
Loans                               -            -           -              1.47          1.47           3.03         1.56             7.35         3.2           25.49        18.15             .93
Debentures Purchased                -          4.50        4.50            47.53         43.03          66.73        19.20           119.o4        52.31         278.55       159.52          546.o4       367.49
Other Assets                      0.80         1.02        0.21             2.34          1.33           3.38         1.04             6.46         3.08          13.58         7.12           17.31         3.73
Total Assets                102.81      104.77        196             106.57         1.80          108.99        2.42           141.34        32.33          322.83       181.49         631.31       308.48
LIABILITIES AND CAPT'AL EqJTTY
Loana frcD Gov't of India        50-00        50.00          -             50.3-                        5'.00           -             80.03        30.00         257.50       177.50          556.88      299.38-
and others
Special Dep.sito                    -          1.13        1.13             2.39          1.26           3.64         1.26             4.90        1.26            6.15         1.25            7.40        1.25
Other Liabilities                 2.81         3.64      _.8'               4.18          0.54           5.3          1.16             6.44         1.09           9.16         2.72           16.94        7.78
Total Liabilities            52.81       54.77        1.96            56.57          1.80           58.99        2.42            91.34        42.35          272.81       181.47         581.22      308.41
Capital - Paid-up                50-°0        50-00          -             50-00            -           50.00           -             50.°-          -            50.00           -            50-00         -
Reserves and Surplus                N            N           N                N             N              N            N                N           N             0.02         0.02            0.09        0.07
Total Capital Equity         50.00       50.00-         N              0-00          _              50.00          N             50.00           N            50.02         0.02          go.09        0.07
Total Liabilities and
Capital Equity              102.81      104.77        1.96            106.57         1.80          108.99        2.42           141.34        32.35          322.83       181.49         63131        308.43
Y Includes Rs UO milliom public bond issue made in January 1970 at 5 3/4% interest per annum  repaypble in 1982.
N - Negligible
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Projected Balance Sheets
(As of dates indicated)
June 30, 1971            June 30, 1972             June 30, 1973             June 30, 1974              June 30, 1975
Change from              Change from               Change from               Change from                Change from
ASSETS                          Rs M Previols Date       Rs M Previous Date        Rs M Previous Date         Rs M Previous Date        Rs M Previous Date
Cash on hand an in
Banks                         0.10        o.o6         0.10       -              0.15       0.5             0.15       -              0.20      o.o
Investments                     5.00      (i9.99)        5.00       -              5.00       -              5.00        -              5.00       -
Loans to Commercial
Banks: 
IDA Projecnts                20.00       20.00       100.00     so.oo          220.00    120.00           250.00     30.00          230.00    (20.00)
Others                       80.00       37.07       100.00     20.00          160.00      60.00          200.00     40.00          250.00     50.00
Lending to LU.Bs for
IDA Projects /              135.00      135.00       456.00    321.00          835.00    379.00           990.00    155.00          905.00    (85.00)
LMB Debentures                700.00      153.96       840.00    140.00         1100.00    260.00          1400.00    300.00         1900.00    500.00
Other Assets                   15.00       (2.31)       20.00      5.00           25.00      5.00            30-00      5.00           35.00      5.00
955.10      323.79      1521.10    566.00         2343.19    824.05         87g75- 530.00              3325.20    450.05
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Loans frcm GOI0
(IDA Funds                  135.00      135.00       462.00    327.00          871.00    409.00         1120.00    249.00          1120.00       -
Other Loans from GOI
and Other Sources           750.00      185.72       930.00    180.oo         1286.00    356.00          1553.00    267.00         1990.00    437.00
Other Liabilities              19.60        2.66        26.68      7.08           30.10       3.42           33-47      3.37           35.89      2.42
904.60     yTN3         1418.63      5-14.0       2187.10    768.42         2706.47    519.37          3145.89    439.42
Capital Paid-up                5             -         10.00 1    50.00                              -                                150.00
Reserves
At Beginning of Year          0.09         _0.0                   -              2.40        -              8.05       -             18.68       -
Projected Net Income          2.53                     6.17       -             12.00       -              17.00       -             17.00       -
Total Available               2.62         -           6.67       -              14.42       -             25.05       -             35.68        -
Mandatyy Dividend
EndoY                      2.12        0            4       __                6.37        -              6.g        -              6.37       -
At End of Year                0.50      -_0o.41                  1.92             8.o5      5.63           18.6      10.63           29.31      10.63
Total Capital Equity           50.50        0.41-      102.42     51.92          15805                                 10.63          17.831     10.63
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND EQUITY                  955.10      323.79      1521.10    566.oo         2345.15    824.05          2875.15    530.00         3325.20    450.5O
PunJab, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Mysore, and Maharashtra Projects.
j Although mandatory dividend of 4-l/4% only applies to the initial Rs 50 million equiity capital, this rate of dividend
has been included on all issued equity capital in the above table.
October 2, 1972                                                                                                                                                        Ej|



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Technical Specifications of a Typical
Market Yard Under the Project
General
1.        These specifications refer to an assumed model market (Model A -
Annex 15) under the project. The specifications are typical of what would
be required under the proposed project but are not intended to be exclusive
since actual requirements would vary among the various markets to be
developed. An outline of the Model A is shown in drawing number World Bank
6989 (R) at the end of this Annex.
Site Preparation
2.        A topographic survey with contour intervals would be
carried out for any market yard to be developed under the project. An open
drain would be excavated around the perimeter of the site to carry runoff
from within the site to the drainage outlet. A levee would be constructed
around the perimeter of the site (where needed) to prevent inflow of runoff
water from adjacent areas. Earth fill would be added to low areas within
the site and the entire area graded to provide a recommended uniform slope
of 0.8% from the lowest point along the perimeter to the highest point
within the site. Open drains constructed within the site would have a
minimum recommended grade of 2.0% to ensure "self-cleaning" water velocity
in the respective drains.
3.        A boundary wall would be constructed around the perimeter of the
market yard.
4.        An entrance road would be constructed betweeni the new market
and an existing transportation route. The road would be hard-surfaced and
meet minimum specifications of the Indian Roads Congress and the Public
Works Department for roads for this use.
5.        Internal Roads - Roads with heavy traffic would be hard-surfaced
in order to reduce cleaning and maintenance costs, avoid dust in the dry
season, and avoid mud and water in the wet season. These roads would be
subjected to impact from steel-rimmed bullock carts and from lorries,
tractors, and trailers. Excessive maintenance costs would be avoided by
constructing these traffic areas on well-drained and compacted soil covered
with 30 cm of crushed and compacted rock, and 5 cm layer of bitumen or
other hard surfacing. Roads with light traffic would be of the same
construction, but without the hard surface. Roadways would be constructed



ANNEX 5
Page 2
sufficiently wide (generally to a minimum width of 11 meters) in order to
avoid congestion.
6.        Parking Areas - Areas used for the parking of bullocks carts,
trucks, and other vehicles would be leveled, compacted, and covered with
suitable surfacing (generally a 30 cm layer of compacted crushed rock).
Structures
7.       Market yards would have different structure requirements depending
upon kinds and quantities of products received. Some markets are already
partially built and existing construction would govern additional require-
ments. The following specifications are intended as a guide and reasonable
deviation would be expected.
8.        Administration Building - Space would be provided for officials of
the State Marketing Department (SMD) and the Regulated Market Committee
(RMC), sample analysis laboratory, storage of records and supplies and toilets.
9.        Quarters - Housing would be provided for guards and service
personnel (e.g. s.reepers and peons).
Auction Platform
10. (a) Covered platforms, having the following characteristics,
would protect products displayed for auction or tender
sale against rain and sun:
-    Floors would be sloped towards sides for drainage
and be about 0.3 m to 1.0 m above ground and about
360 my area each;
-    Roofs would have wind ties to withstand maximum
expected wind velocities, minimum clearance of about
3.75 m and would extend about 1.0 m beyong the sides
of the platform;
(b) An open, hard-surfaced display area, adjacent to the
covered platforms would be provided for periods of peak
product arrivals. This area would be subjected to
heavy traffic and the construction would be equivalent
to heavy traffic roadways. When conditions and need
warrant, additional covered platforms would be constructed
in this area.
11.       Shops-cum-godowns - Traders and/or commission agents licensed
by the RMC to conduct business in a market would construct shops-cum-godowns.
Each design would be approved by SMD and RMC. It is anticipated that shops-
cum-godowns would be constructed side by side in commodity groups. Each
would have a display platform and covered arcade at the front leading into
an office and godown. Dimensions would vary according to overall market



ANNEX 5
Page 3
layout and the needs of particular market intermediaries. Adequate areas
for shops-cum-godowns would be designated in the approval layout for
each regulated market.
12.       Canteen - A canteen (generally of about 350 m2) would be constructed
at a central location in the market for the convenience of market employees,
laborers, and the general public. Space for a meetlng hall (e.g. for farmers'
groups and RMC) would also be provided.
13.       Dormitory - A dormitory (of about 500 m2) would be constructed
for producers and others needing sleeping quarters for short periods.
14.       Public toilets and showers - These would be of basic design
emphasizing sanitation, and would be constructed in the market yard.
15.       Check Post - This would include space for display of market
information, and would be constructed at the entrance to the market yard.
16.       Residence for Head Guard - a Residence would be built for the
head guard responsible for the security of the market.
17.       Shelter for Fire Fighting Equipment - A shelter would be provided
for a pressure pump, hoses, and other fire fighting equipment.
Utilities (Quantities refer to requirements of Model A market)
18.       Watersu;ply - Where suitable town water is not available, a
tubewell would be drilled to necessary depth to obtain an adequate and
dependable supply of potable water. A storage bank elevated 10 m and with
a capacity of about 40 m3 would provide a reserve supply of water and a
uniform pressure in the distribution pipes. Underground pipes would
distribute potable water throughout the market yard.
19.       Electric Power - A three-phase power line would be constructed
and transformers installed to supply adequate electricity (about 25 kw
of 440 and 220 volt current). Single-phase 220 volt current would be
distributed throughout the market for illumination, ventilating fans,
power outlets for fractional HP motors, etc. and three-phase 440 volt
current for water pump and for other uses requiring higher voltage.
20.       Area Lighting - The entire market area would be illuminated at night
using conventional mercury vapor, sodium vapor, or fluorescent lamps mounted
on poles. Sufficient lamps would be installed to obtain a minimum illumina-
tion level of 50 lumens/mZ throughout the market area.
21.       Sewage - Sewage within the market would be collected and disposed
of according to existing regulations, standards, and recommendations for
the State. SMD would be responsible for the approval of designs for adequate
and reliable disposal facilities.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Equipment
22.       Office Equipment - The administration building would require
equipment such as typewriter, calculator, desks, chairs, filing cabinets,
supply cabinets, ventilating fans, drinking fountains, etc.
23.       Laboratory Equipment - Sampling and sample analysis equipment
would be required for product grading. Each market would require sampling
probes, a sample divider, an oven for moisture tests, an analytical balance,
and sieves with appropriate meshes for size classification. Cotton markets
would require a sample gin and groundnut markets a sample sheller.
Additional and more sophisticated equipment (e.g. for analyzing oil content)
would be provided as needed after trained personnel become available.
24.       Communication Equipment - Market information would be compiled
and distributed at each market. Equipment required for this service
would include telephone, radio and loudspeakers.
25.       Weighing Equipment - Platform scales would be required at each
market for the weighing of bagged products. Where preferred, beam balances
would be provided to weigh cotton.
26.       Fire Fighting Equipment - A portable water pump with pressure
hose and a power supply would be required.
27.       Drying Equipment - A simple sack-type heated air dryer of brick
construction (of the type shown in drawing no. 6966 (R) at the end of this
Annex) would be used to reduce excess moisture from expected increased
arrivals of rainy-season harvested grain crops. A typical dryer of 100
sacks could reduce the average moisture from 17% to 12% in 5 to 8 hours,
assuming a heated air supply of 400 m3 per minute at 50'C and normal weather
(dry bulb temperature of 259C).
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
TYPICAL LAY-OUT FOR A WHOLESALE MARKET
CAPACITY ABOUT 86000 TONS-YEAR
O   SHOP CUM GODOWN
Total area 21500  for construction     -_;_ __:_ _                                                        __
and futura eopans.on                 .--     ~,:+i                                . ~~,,       ''-r    <         t, ,,',         :':, :     , 
AUCTION PLATFORMS
Dm-nsion 6 60.,
03  MAIN OFFICE- 
SuggEestd area 360.2                  .                                                     f.      -F7                 - -
CANTEEN BAN KPOST -OFFICE                .-
Soggerd.'  .-.r " -:                                        ,.45'.    --:. -' .:                                ., '
OD      PRODUCER S
REST HOUSE
500m2...-....:  .:
O       STAFF DUARTERS
0       CHECK POST                                   .                                              -I.-.
.od Roside-ce for
Head guard ...d
PU1BLIC TOIL ETS
AREA RESERVED FOR SHOPS
®       PEAK ARRIVAL USE AREA
O       PRESENT PARKING AND
FUTURE CONSTRUCTION
O93  PARKING                                                               2i                       lX      .W iZ --i2I1
(@ ~  ENTRANCE ROAD
®i)     PARKING AREA
OUTSIDE CHECK POST                                         LiIIiII _        1II1                        (®     6 60
ReHrd surfooe                             |-                                                                    (.            |    0m+   
Gravel                                 -                         - ::- .. - ..C. -  .     .. J
Land scape                                                      
0   10  20  00  40  so m|. 
250w ~       72
w. -3111]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ~~-00 0






INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
SACK-TYPE DRIER FOR GRAIN
CAPACITY -104 SACKS                  D
.1  Z .
soweH L:l f . F 2 i StStXli-; i(\1 : k~~~~~~~~~~~C-l ~
-AOVER  INT  7DNTRD        
|             SIDE VIEW                     l          l   | +~~~~~~~~f  /
VANEV)EA                                     Oi
DOWER     C                        1                   t 1
L-----            3D  _ 60-                 0-4 -   I_
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~o              30 60         30      60    30        60     30
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B cl                                     ER'cl 
-IMENSIONS INC CM                                                  WOV   6ank  6666 12RI
SECTIN A-
o  ~~~o  40  60  o    loo~~~I                                     _
i  i  i  i           i1  _                              _~           
.IENIOS N  .                                                             B1k- 96 …R






ANNEX 6,
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Phasing Chart
The attached chart World Bank 7041 (R)
shows the project phasing over the five-year
disbursement period.
October 2, 1972






INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
PHASING CHART
YEAR 1               YEAR 2                YEAR 3                YEAR 4                YEAR 5
Quarters             Quarters             Quarters               Quarters              Quarters
REGULATED MARKET COMMITTEES                                                           …
PLANNING AND APPRAISAL                    BElIE IEEEEEIIEE 11111 11  IEE  11 mlEE  ll  IEEElli Mongo BElE
SUBLOAN APPROVAL                                    lIE  EEEE  BEI  MMI IEE  11  111  1111  MElE  IEE  11111
PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, BID INVITATION                     111  IEEE 11  111  IEEE 11   IIUM 1111  I l          KEElS  lIE
CONTRACTING                                                         lslo. 11111 MElvE 11l11   l EEEIl lEElIBEl IEEE IMBUE *111
CONSTRUCTION                                                                _               _    _ -              _ -                   _    _     _
MARKET INTERMEDIARIES
PLANNING AND APPRAISAL                    I h       MElE  111  IEEE  El  111  lIE  111  MEE  BEIE lI
SUBLOAN APPROVAL                                     111  111   iM E  ll E lliE lMlEEIllEEllEEll  mllE    lll lEEllEl EEEl 1os11   ElIE MINIM
PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS                                IEEEEEEE  Il  EEEE lIBEl BElIE  IEUE 11111 mmmi  ur..  u.u. *il.. a....
CONTRACTING AND CONSTRUCTION                          _    _     _                     _ -    -    -                                          _     _
I Staff              1 Staff               1 Staff               1 Staff               1 Staff
TRAINING SMD                                        m  mmmmm  mm_                m mm mm               m ..     m r1mm mm m. .m Amm mm  ME
6 Secret.          I 6 Secret.      |      6 Secret.           I 6 Secret.             6 Secret.
TRAINING MARKET SECRETARIES                                             mm       -mum                m  m   -M               -      =    mm          mm--
1 5 Graders           15 Graders|          15 Graders I           15 Graders            15 Graders
TRAINING GRADING INSPECTORS                                      m   mm   mm -       mm1in r-  mmmm   MM  mm .t*                            mm   mm   ME
|   PROJECT t\/ALURT101\1  t   1  t    Data Collection, Analysis ad __epot orl Bank   7
World Bank -7041 (2R)






Ii'DI
MYSVORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESATIE MARKETS PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(Rs Thousand)
Ofwhich foreign
exchange comPonent
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5     Total      Amount  % of Total
I    Regulated Market Committee
Civil Works                         -            782      3,000      3,545       3,545    10,872       2,220      20
Structures                          -          1,036      3,736      4,410       4,410    13,592       2,640      19
Utilpties                           -            254      1,019      1,200       1,200     3,673       1,520      41
Equipment                           -            164        427        500         500     1,6591        945      5
Sub-Total                        _          2,236      8,182      9,655       9,655    29,72        7,325      25
Engineering and Supervision 10%        -           224        818         965        965     2,972         -         -
Sub-Total                        -          2,460      9,000     tO,620      10,620    32,700       7,325      22
II   Market Intermediary 1/
Structures                         2,860       3,740      7,100      8,650       8,650    31,000       5,900      19
Utilities                            455         585      1,110      1,350       1,350     4,850       2,000      41
Equipment                            140         17         355        440         440     1,550         910      q9
Sub-Total                       3,455                  8,565     10,440      10,440    37,400       8,810      24
III Training & Proj. Evaluation
Training                              45          45         45          45         45       225         -         -
Evaluation                                                   95          95         95        80
Sub-Total                          45                    140        140         140        0          _
TOTAL                                 3,500      7,100     17,705      21,200     21,200    70,705      16,135       23
IV   Contingencies                  2/
Physical Contingencies (6.5%)-       225         460      1,150       1,380      1,380     4,595       1,050      23
Price Contingencies (5% p.a.)         380     _           4,o65      6,240       7,680    19,540       4,460
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    4,105      8,735     22,920      28,820     30,260    94,840      21,645       23
US$ '000 Equivalent                     5-)      1,092      2,865       3,603      3,782    11,855       2,706       23
1 / Including engineering and supervislon.
27  Physical contingencies 6.5% (average of 5% on RMCs  and 8% on market intermediaries' investments).
3/ Price contingency computed for total including physical contingency, and assumes disbursements commence about
two years after time of appraisal (see Annex
October 2, 1972






INDIA
MYSOR. AGRICULTURAL wniOLSSALE MAREETS PROJECTS
CaDital Cost of RNC Nodels
(Rs'000)
MODEL A (86,000 tons/year)    MODEL 3 (10,000._ons/year)           MMZL C jlimprovement)          MODEL D (ImDrovement)
Frin Ex. COD                Frin Ex. COD                   Fen Ex. ron                        Freign Ex. Comp.
Total Cost Am        -        Total Cost                     T     Cost                        T     Cost                 Co
CIVIL WORKS
Engineering Surveys                            4.0       -          -         2.0       -         -         3.0        -         -          1.0         -             -
Earth-enving and Levelling                    70.0       3.0       4         30.0       1.2       4        42.0        1.7       4         15.0         0.6           4
Surface Drainage and Culverts                 13.0       3.0      23          6.4       1.5      23         9.5        2.2      23          3.0         0.7          23
Internal Roads (Bitumen)                     1460.0    115.0      25        224.0      56.o      25       330.0       82.5      25        150.o        36.7          25
Parking Area (Gravel)                        113.0       7.0       5         46.o       2.4       5        75.0        3.8       5         25.o         1.3           5
Boundary Wall 45.5                                      5.0      11         31.4       3.5      11        37.0        4.0      11         20.0         2.2          11
Entrance Road                                100.0      25.0      25        100.0      25.0      25       100.0       25.0      25         50.0        12.5          25
Landscaping                                    5.0       -          -         1.5       -         -         3.0        -         -  -       1.0         -             -
Subtotal                                810.5    158.0       20        441.3      89.6      20       599.5    119.2        20        265.0        54.o          20
280.0 1/   56.o       20       100.0 1/    20.0           20
STRUCTURES                                                                                                319.5 ?/   63.2       20        165.0  /    34.0           20
Administration Building                      270.0      64.o       20       247.0      49.b      20         70.0      1tt.0     20         50.0        10.0          20
Auction Platforms                            576.0      86.0       15       216.0      33-0      15        216.0      33.0      15        144.0        21.6          15
Check Post                                     8.0       1.6       20         8.0       1.6      20         8.0        1.6      20          5,0         1.0          20
Canteen and Meeting Roon                     129.0      25.8       20        81.0      16.2      20       106.5       21.0      20         35.o         7.0          20
Producers' Rest House                        125.0      25.0       20        38.0       7.6      20        76.0       15.0      20          _-                        -
Public Toilets and Showers                    64.0      16.0       25        20.0       5.0      25        32.0        8.0      25          2.0         0.5          25
Guard Haose                                    8.0       1.6      20          8.0       1.6      20         8.0        1.6      20         5.0          1.0          20
Shelter for Fire Fighting Equipment            2.0        -         -         2.0       -         -          2.0       -         -          o.5         -             -
Water Troughs                                  3.0       0.2        6         1.6       0.1       6          2.5       0.1       6          o.5         0.1           6
Quarters for Guards and Service Personnel    yo.o       14.o       20        50.0      10.0      20         70.n V2.o           20         60.0         12.0         20
Subtotal                              1,255.0     234.2       19       671.6    124.5       19       591.0      108.3      18        302.0        53.2          18
UIILITIES
Water Supply                                 133.0       50.0      38        60.9      23.0      38         95.0      36.0      38         20.0          7.6         38
Electric Power                                143.0     7Y.0       54        61.0      33.0      54         94.0      51.0      54         20.0        10.8          54
Sewage Disposal                               57.0        6.0      11        19.2       2.0      11         29.5       3.2      11          5.O         o.5          11
Subtotal                                333.0    135.0        41       L4.1       5B.o      41        218.5      90.2      41         45.0        15.9         i41
EQUIPMENT                                                                                         .
Fire Fighting                                 18.0        8.7      48        10.0       4.8      48         15.0       7.2      h4          3.0         1.5          48
Platform Scales                               26.0      23.5       90        12.0      10.8      90         18.0      16.2      90          4.o          3.6         90
Comunications                                 10.0       6.o       60         6.0       3.6      60         -6.o       3.6      60          2.0         1.2          60
Office and Laboratory Equipment               25.0      15.0       60        15.0       9.0      60        14.0        8.4      60          8.o         44.8         60
Grain Dryer (Sack-type) and Other Equiprent   46.b      20.8       43        23.0       9.9      43         35.0      15.0    143          15.0          6.5         43
Jeep                                          25.0    2a.          95         -         -         -         25.0      91 R      95          -            -            -
Subtotal                                150.0      97.0       65        66.0        5. 1    56       113.0       74.-2     66         32.0         17.9         56
Total                                      2,548.5    624.2       24      1,320.0    310.2       23     1,242.0      jS'9       27        544.0       124.0          23
Engineering and Supervision (10%)            255.0        -         -       132.0       -         -       124.0        -         -         54.o
Contingencies 5.0%                            14u.5     31.0       22        72.0      15.5      21         68.o      17.0      25         29.0         6.i          21
TOTAL                                      2,944.0    655.2        22     1,524.0    325.7       21     1,434.0      35.9       25        627.0       130.1          21
1/ Already lnvested                                                                                                                                                      CD
g/ Necessary investment



ANNEX i7
rppendiCx 7-2
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL 'WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Operating Costs for Model Markets
Rs/Year
Model A     Model B     Model C       Model D
Salaries                         -   170,400      58,000      170,400       18,000
Fringe Benefits                 -    35,700       12,300       35,700        3,600
Utilities                              1,600         600       1,200           400
Municipal Taxes                        9,000       4,500       6,200         1,800
Maintenance                           29,100      13,200      24,700         3,000
Insurance                       6/    9,800        6,300       8,600         2,000
Cleaning and Sweeping                12,800        5,5bo       &,ooo         2s000
Contribution to:
Consolidated Fund          2    84,900       30,000      50,000        12,600
State Marketing Board      8/   55,300       19,600      33,000         6,900
Travel, Conferences, Study Tours      6,000        4,000       6,ooo         1,000
Honorary Chairman                      3,000       3,000       3,000         1,200
Postage, Telegram, Telephone,         6,000       4,000        6,000         1,500
Periodicals
Publicity  Advertising                3,500        2,500       3,000           500
Legal Expenses, Audit                 5,5oo        5,000       5,500         2,000
Jeep Expenses                         5,000          -         5,000           -
Miscellaneous                         29,400       3,500      18,700         1,000
Total                     467,000      172,000     385,000        57,500
1/  See Appendix  .3.
2/ About 20% of salaries (includes pension and medical costs).
3/ Mainly electricity cost.
/ About 0.3% on RMC's investment
i&/ 1%, 1%, 1.5% on construction in civil work and buildings
for Model A, B, C resp. (higher on C because of partly old constructions).
2.5% on investments in equipment.
6/  0.8% on investment in buildings
/ 25% of tobal revenues before increase in market fee.
y/ 5% of total revenures.
October 2, 1972



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
INDIA
MYSoRi; AGRlCULTORAL WO0ESALE MARlETS PROJECT
Average Salaries of RMCs
(in Rs
MODEL A and C             MODEL B                     MODEL D
Government Staff (paid by                           Total                    Total                      Total
State Goverrment)                 Number   Monthly Salary   Number Monthl1y Salary   Wber  Monthy Salary
Secretary                          1            1,130           1        590              1          320
Assistant Secretary                1              390           1         370             1          320
Accountant                          1             450           1         370                         -
Internal Auditor                   1              340           1         340             _           _
Non-Govermnent Staff
office Superintendent              1              490           -          -              -           -
Market Superintendent               -              -            1         370
First Division Clerk               2              680           1         370             _           _
License Inspector Grade I          1              470           1        370              -           -
License Inspector Grade II         1              340           -         -               _           _
Statistician                       1              470           -         -               1          210
Grading Officer                    1              590           -          -              -
Grading Inspector                  1              470           -          -              -
Grading Supervisor                 2              690           -          -              -
Propagandist                       1              470           -         -               -           -
Secord Division Clerk              8            2,000           4      1,000              1          210
Market Supervisor                  4            1,000           1         250             1           210
Auctioneer                         4            1,000           1         225             1           160
Market Fee Collector                -               -           1         225             -
Stenographer                       1              340           -          -              -           -
Typist                              1             250           1         250             1           210
Graders                             6           1,500           2         500             1           210
Driver                             1              200           -          -              -
Peons, Watchmen, Sweepers         20            3,240           8      1,280              2           320
TOTAL (NON=3Ov"'T.
STAFF)               56           14,200         21      1,84o              8        1,530
TOTAL COST (NO1I.-3Ov'T.
STAFF) PER YKA3                   17rO,hA                 7  9                        18,000
actober 2, 1972



ANNEX 7
Appe_ndix 4
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLSSALU MARKETS PROJECT
1/
Capital Cost of a Ilypical Market Intermediary's Shop-Cum-Godown
Foreign Exchange
Component
Total Cost      Amount          %
Rs             Rs
Construction                                  57,550         11,000         19
Utilities                                      9,000          3,700         4i
Equipment                                      2,890          1,700          9
Sub-total (including Engineering and
Supervision)                 69,44o         164,4oo         24
Contingencies (8%)                             5,560          1,300         24
TOTAL                                    75,0O0        17,700          24
1/  This typical shop-cum-codown has an approximate size of 250 m2 including a
yard of 70 m2 for disposal of commodities.
October 2, 1972



ANNEX  7
Appendix 7-§
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Operating Cost of a Typical Market Intermediary
Rs/Year
Salaries                                                                  15,840
Fringe Benefits (about 20%)                                                3,160.
Utilities                                                                     50
Municipal taxes (about 0.3% on investment)                                   225
Maintenance (about 1% on investment)                                         750
Insurance (about 0.8% on investment plus commodities)                      1,000
Postage, Telegram and Telephone                                            1,000
Market Fee-/                                                               6,250
Transportation costs inside market yard                                      500
3/
Cleaning, loading, stitching-                                                500
Commission and trading fee                                                   180
Miscellaneous                                                              1,545
TOTAL                                                                31,000
1/  Owner-manager Rs 9,000/year; one  office clerk Rs 3,000/year;
two peons Rs 3,840/year.
/ Based on average amount of 500 tons/year traded. Market fee 1%.
3/  500 tons X Rs 1/ton.
October 2, 1972



ANNFX 7
A ppendix  -
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
A. Staff Training Costs
1.  State Marketing Board Staff                                           as
5 senior staff for one year each at Rs8,OOO                         4o,ooo
Subtotal                                                       4o,ooo
b. Market Committees Staff
50 market secretaries for one-half year
each at Rs3,OO0                                               15o,ooo
50 graders for 3 months each at Rs700                               35,0oo
Subtotal                                                     1 85,ooo
TOTAL                                                         225,ooo
_/
B. Project Evaluation Costs
1. Staff Remuneration
1 senior research officer @ Rs16,OOO per annum for 4hyrs            64,oo0
2/
5 research workers         @    7,OO  l'          , It  tt         1 44b,oc
2 subordinate staff              3,000  "    "    "  "  "           240ooo
Subtotal                                                      232,000
2. Travel Expenses
60,000 kn per annum by road  @ Rs 1.50                              90,000
3.  Miscellaneous, including printing                                   6o0,ooo
TOTAL                                                        382,ooo
1/ Only for the IDA disbursement period.
2/ Master's degree level.
October 2, 1972



AMNEX 8
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
1/
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements -
(Rs'000)
Fiscal
Year            Quarter              Disbursed              Undisbursed
1973/74            3                     -                      58,240
4                     10                     58,230
1974/75            1                     10                     58,220
2                  1,110                     57,110
3                  1,145                     55,965
4                  1,200                     54,765
1975/76            1                  1,200                     53,565
2                  1,300                     52,265
3                  1,540                    50,725
4                  2,400                     48,325
1976/77            1                  3,500                     44,825
2                  3,900                     40,925
3                  4,380                     36,545
4                  4,450                     32,095
1977/78            1                  4,450                     27,645
2                  4,450                     23,195
3                  4,485                     18,710
4                  4,600                     14,110
1978/79            1                  4,600                      9,510
2                  4,600                      4,910
3                  4,910
1/   Assuming effectiveness by October 1, 1973 and a time contingency of
six months.
October 2, 1972






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Economist for the Marketing Department
Qualifications
1.        Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment of Mysore would make available a well-experienced economist as economic
adviser to SMD. The person selected would have the following:
-    master's degree or doctorate in a relevant discipline
(economics, agricultural economics, business administration,
etc.) from a good university;
-    at least five years' experience in some aspect of marketing
agricultural products;
-    a demonstrated ability to conduct or supervise meaningful
research in agricultural marketing;
-    an ability to work with a variety of agencies and institutions.
Duties
2.        The economist would be generally responsible for monitoring
changes in the agriculture of Mysore as they relate to marketing. In
particular, he wobld give continuing attention to:
(a) projections of changes in cropping patterns, production,
yields, marketable surplus and arrivals by district and
taluk, with a view to advising on the changing pattern of
needed investments in market facilities as between
different markets;
(b) the radius of actual arrivals to particular markets, with
a view to advising on the definition of particular market
areas;
(c) the attitudes and practices of different classes of farmers
(by size, commodity, region) as to:
-    mode of transport to market
-    size of lot
-    frequency of marketing
-    distance to market



ANNEX 9
Page 2
-    choice of market
-    source of production financing
-    self-storage on farm
-    self-storage at market
-    source of market information
-    source of inputs
-    prices and margins
(d) coordinating and assisting the Project Evaluation (Annex 13);
(e) providing meaningful information to IDA under the Quarterly
Reporting Requirements; and
(f) assisting commercial banks by providing information for loan
appraisal and administration under the project.
3.        The economist would conduct or initiate studies in these matters
and would interpret the findings and advise on their implications for
location of markets, grades and standards, and market intelligence.
In carrying out his work the economist would keep close liaison with all
governmental and private agencies that gather statistics and information
related to market arrivals and marketing. In particular, he would work
closely with the Bureau of Economics and Statistics, with agencies involved
in promoting production (extension service, PWD), the Town Planning
Department and the universities.
October 2, 1972



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Participating Commercial Banks
A. Canara Bank
1.        Canara Bank was established in 1906 and nationalized, together
with 13 other major commercial banks, in July 1969. Canara has a tradition
of progressive lending policies compared to most other leading commercial
banks and, even before nationalization, was active in the provision of
credit to small-scale industries and to agriculture.
2.        Capital.  Canara's paid-up capital, which is wholly owned by
GOI, is Rs 17.5 million. The Act 1/ under which Canara was nationalized
provides that the capital structure may be changed by GOI after consultation
with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) provided, however, that the paid-up
capital shall not exceed Rs 150 million.
3.        Management and Control.  The general direction of the affairs and
business of Canara is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising a Custodian,
who is appointed by GOI and is the Chief Executive of the bank, and five
directors appointed by GOI after consultation with RBI. The bank has an
efficient Internal Inspection Department and the accounts are audited by
external auditors approved by RBI who are required to report to GOI. Canara
is expanding its Agricultural Finance Department (AFD) both by recruitment
of technically qualified persons who are given an introduction to commercial
banking before being sent into the field and by training bank professionals
in the techniques of agricultural financing.
4.        Sources and Cost of Funds.  Canara derives its resources from
its share capital, reserves and deposits. Deposits, which account for about
95% of resources, increased by nearly 59% between December 1969 and
December 1971. The cost of deposits is about 6% p.a. including interest paid
to depositors at an average rate of 4% p.a. (Interest rates range from nil
on current accounts to 7-1/4% on deposits fixed for terms exceeding five
years.)
5.        Activities.  Besides providing a full commercial banking service,
Canara has innovated a number of schemes to attract deposits particularly
in the rural and semi-urban areas. It has also developed its rural credit
1/   The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act
1970.



Annex 10
Page 2
activity based on an area approach whereby particular areas are surveyed
in depth and credit is provided to finance the mix of inputs that are
needed to develop the agriculture of the area. Advances to agriculture at
end FY 1971 increased by 10% over FY 1970 and totalled Rs 171 million
(US$27.3 million) which represented 12% of total advances.
6.        Financial Condition.  Canara's condensed balance sheet and profit
and loss accounts are given at Appendices 11-1 and 11-2. The financial
situation is satisfactory although, in common with most of the Indian public
sector banks, net worth is small compared with total liabilities, principally
as a result of the substantial growth in deposits over recent years. Net
profit (after tax but subject to staff bonus) increased by 87% and 35%
respectively in 1970 and 1971 over the preceding years despite sharp
increases in establishment expenses consequent upon the opening of 233 new
branches during the two-year period and an upward revision of staff wages
and salaries. The substantial improvement in profits was due in large part
to the removal by RBI of the ceiling of 9.5% on lending rates in February 1970.
B. The State Bank of India Group
7.        The State Bank of India (SBI) was established by Act of Parliament
on May 8, 1955 for the general purposes of extending banking facilities,
particularly in the rural and semi-urban areas, and for various other
public purposes. The same Act transferred to SBI the undertaking of the
Imperial Bank of India. Subsequent acts provided for the formation of a
number of banks as subsidiaries of SBI to take over the undertakings of
various state-associated banks located in the old princely states. SBI and
its subsidiary banks are referred to as the State Bank Group (SBG). SBG
is represented in the State of Mysore by SBI, State Bank of Mysore (SBM)
and State Bank of Hyderabad (SBH).
8.        Capital.  SBI's authorized capital is Rs 200 million divided into
two million shares of Rs 100 each. The issued and paid-up capital is
Rs 56.25 million of which about 92% is held by RBI and the balance by about
1,300 private shareholders, the remnants of the shareholders of the Imperial
Bank of India. The shares are freely transferrable and the issued capital
may be increased up to Rs 125 million by the Central Board of SBI except
that no transfer or issue may be made which would result in RBI holding less
than 55% of the issued capital of SBI. SBM has an authorized capital of
Rs 20 million divided into 200,000 shares of Rs 100 each. The issued and
paid-up capital is Rs 10.035 million. The authorized share capital of
SBH is Rs 10 million divided into 100,000 shares of Rs 100 each. The
issued and paid-up capital of Rs 5 million is wholly owned by SBI.
9.        Management.  The general direction of the affairs and business of
SBI is entrusted to a Central Board at present comprising 17 members
including a chairman and vice-chairman appointed by GOI in consultation
with RBI and a managing director appointed by the Central Board with the
approval of GOI. There are six directors nominated by GOI, one by RBI



ANNEX 10
Page 3
and two elected by shareholders other than RBI. The presidents of five
oi the seven local boards which control SBI's local head offices are ex-
officio members of the Central Board. Each of the subsidiary banks is
managed by a Board of Directors which is obliged to comply with directions
given by SBI. The chairman of SBI is ex-oficio chairman of each of the
Boards of Directors of subsidiary banks and nominees of SBI and RBI
constitute a majority of members of each Board.
10.       Organization and Staffing.  The head office of SBI is in Bombay
and its seven local head offices are in Ahmedabad, Bombay, Calcutta, Hyderabad,
Kaupur, Madras and New Delhi. The head office of SBM is in Bangalore and
that of SBH in Hyderabad. At end 1971 SBG had 3,781 branch offices
distributed throughout India (SBM 166 and SBH 252) of which 249 were located
in Mysore State. SBG branch exparision, particularly into rural areas, has
been dramatic in recent years; 518 branches, an increase of 16%, were opened
in 1971, more than half of them in centers with less than 10,000 population.
Staff employed by the group exceeds 100,000 including a professional staff
well-experienced in commercial banking operations. SBI has its own staff
training college and it and its subsidiaries operate a number of staff
training schools and centers. Considerable emphasis is placed on the
training of staff in the techniques of agricultural financing, particularly
small farmer credit.
11.       Business of State Bank Group.  Where RBI does not have an office,
SBG acts as RBI's agent for:
(a) paying, receiving, collecting and remitting money,
bullion and securities on behalf of any government in
India; and
(b) undertaking and transacting any other business which
RBI may entrust to it.
12.       Members of the Group are required to provide a full commercial
banking service and, in keeping with its status as a banking group within
the public sector, SBG is expected to be a pace setter in development
banking. To facilitate its operations in development finance, SBG has
been permitted since 1968 to make advances to priority sectors as defined
by the Central Board for periods up to 15 years.
13.       Sources and Cost of Capital.  SBI and its subsidiaries derive
their resources from share capital and reserves, deposits received from the
public, rediscounts with RBI and borrowings from banks and other sources.
They may also apply for funds from the Industrial Finance Corporation and
ARC for specific projects or to finance schemes in conjunction with these
institutions. The cost of funds raised through deposits, which form about
90% of Group resources, is about 5-1/2% p.a. including interest paid to
depositors at an average rate of about 3-1/2% p.a. (no interest is paid on
current accounts while other rates range up to 7-1/4% for five-year
term deposits).



ANNEX 10
Page 4
14.       Activities.  During 1971, deposits received by SBG increased by
nearly 20% to a year-end balance of Rs 19.1 billion (US$2.06 billion) which
represented more than a quarter of the total deposits held by all scheduled
commercial banks. Advances by the Group at end FY 1971 totalled Rs 14.3
billion (US$2 billion), accounting for 29% of the total advances outstanding
to scheduled commercial banks. The growth in the Group's activities over
recent years has been largely due to expansion of the branch network
particularly into new and previously unbanked areas rather than at the
expense,of other banks. Significantly, deposits of rural and semi-rural
branches formed more than 40% of SBG's total deposits at end of December
1971. 4dvances to the agricultural sector of Rs 1.7 billion (US$230
million) at end FY 1971, while lower than at end FY 1970 (due mainly to the
repaymeit of credit extended for fertilizer distribution), showed an 84%
increase over the four-year period commencing January 1968. During 1971,
SBG reviewed its strategy for financing the agricultural sector and decided
to reduce its scattered lending and place greater emphasis on an intensive
area approach. This will involve the selection of about 150 Intensive
Centers, over a two to three year period during which Agricultural Development
Branches will be established.
15.    , Financial Condition and Audit.  The accounts of SBI are required
to be audited by two auditors qualified under the Companies Act 1956. The
auditors are appointed by RBI in consultation with GOI and are required to
report to GOI on their findings. The accounts of subsidiary banks are
required to be audited by an auditor qualified under the Companies Act
who is appointed by SBI with the approval of RBI. The auditor is required
to report to SBI on his findings and to forward a copy of his report to GOI.
16.       SBG does not publish consolidated accounts but comparative
statements of the Group's consolidated position are shown at Appendix 11-3.-
Condensed balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of SBM and Sl3H are
given at Appendices 11-4 through 11-7 respectively. The Groupts financial
position is sound and each of the members operating in Mysore State,
namely, SBI, SBM and SBH, is considered suitable to participate in the
project.
C. Syndicate Bank
17.       Syndicate Bank (Syndicate) is one of the 14 major commercial
banks which were nationalized in July 1969. During its comparatively short
history as a privately-owned bank (it was originally registered in 1925),
Syndicate had a remarkable growth record. At the time of nationalization
after less than 44 years' operation, Syndicate had 306 branches, deposits
totalled Rs 1.27 billion, and advances outstanding were 0.91 billion. Growth
has continued since nationalization and, at December 31, 1971, deposits had
increased to Rs 2.2 billion, advances outstanding totalled Rs 1.5 billion, and
there were 507 branch offices of the bank distributed throughout India. Syn-
dicate was one of the earliest of the major commercial banks to provide credit
to the agricultural sector, and in 1964, established an Agricultural Finance
Department (AFD) to deal exclusively in agricultural credit management.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
18.       Capital.  Syndicate's paid-up capital, which is wholly owned by
GOI, is Rs 14.2 million. The Act (see footnote 1, Page 1) under which
Syndicate was nationalized provides that the capital structure may be changed
by GOI after consultation with RBI provided, however, that the paid-up capital
shall not exceed Rs 150 million.
19.       Management and Control.  The general direction of the affairs and
business of Syndicate is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising a
Custodian, who is appointed by GOI and is the Chief Executive of the bank,
and five Directors appointed by GOI after consultation with RBI. The
bank has an efficient Internal Inspection Department and the accounts are
audited by external auditors approved by RBI who are required to report to
GOI.
20.       Organization and Staffing.  Syndicate's head office is at Manipal,
in the State of Mysore (which is still the bank's principal area of operation
and the location of about half of its branches).  Syndicate has over 12,000
professional staff of whom about 120 are employed in the AFD. APID staff is
largely composed of agriculture graduates who are employed as "Farm
Representatives" and are deployed among the branches in the rural areas to
assist branch managers in their agricultural credit activities. Syndicate
is expanding AFD both by recruitment of technically qualified persons who
are given an introduction to commercial banking before being sent into the
field and by training bank professionals in the techniques of agricultural
financing.
21.       Sources and Cost of Funds.  Syndicate derives its resources from
its share capital, reserves and deposits. Deposits, which account for over
95% of resources, increased by 16% and 31% at end of FY1970 and 1971
respectively. The cost of deposits is about 6% p.a. including interest paid
to depositors at an average rate of 4% p.a. (Interest rates range from nil
on current accounts to 7-1/4% on deposits fixed for terms exceeding five
years.)
22.       Activities.  Besides providing a full commercial banking service,
Syndicate has innovated a number of schemes to attract deposits particularly
in the rural and semi-urban areas. It has also pioneered a number of schemes
for providing finance to farmers, notably the Farm Loan Scheme under which
technical guidance is provided to farmer borrowers and the Agricard Scheme
whereby small farmers are enabled to obtain their seasonal requirements in
kind from an approved dealer. To enable it to develop its agricultural
financing along meaningful lines, Syndicate has carried out a program of
field trials of fertilizers, seeds, mechanical aids and other farm inputs.
Advances to agriculture at end FY1971 totalled Rs 198 million (US$27.3
million) which represented 13% of total advances. Included in the agricul-
tural advances were 38,000 loans amounting to Rs 75 (US$10 million) made
under the Farm Loan Scheme, an increase of Rs 14.3 million (US$2 million)
over the amount outstanding at the end of FY1970.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
23.       Financial Condition.  Syndicate's condensed balance sheet and
profit and loss accounts are given at Appendices 11-8 and 11-9. The financial
situation is satisfactory although, in common with most of the Indian public
sector banks, net worth is small compared with total liabilities, principally
as a result of the substantial growth in deposits over recent years. Net
profit (after tax but subject to staff bonus) increased by 126% and 38%
respectivelY in 1970 and 1971 over the preceding years despite sharp increases
in establishment expenses consequent upon the opening of 150 new branches
during the two-year period and an upward revision of staff wages and salaries.
The substantial improvement in profits was due in large part to the removal
by RBI of the ceiling of 9.5% on lending rates in February 1970.
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSOR3 AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Canara Bank
(rondensed Balange Sheets At 31 st Dpc-mbe-
(Rs Thousands)
1969                  1970            1 971
Assets
Cash in Hand and with RBI                          165,256              190,882          198,952
Balances with Other Banks.                          12,703                8,582          129,623
Money at Call and Short Notice                      60,800                4,000           63,525
Investments in Securities, Shares,
Debentures or Bonds                             451,124              598,000          803,781
Advances (less bad debts) and
Bills Discounted                              1, 254,693           1,689,826        1,853,340
Bills Receivable                                   184,693              219,742           239,851
Constituents'Liabilities for
Acceptances, iAc.                               118,721              162,791          163,012
Premises Less Depreciation                           79796                7,3568           7,73
Furniture and Fixture Less Depreciation              9,140               13,034           18,518
Other Assets                                        98,001               62,279           62,097
TOTAL ASSETS                                2,362,927            2,956,704        3,540,072
Liabilities and Equity
Borrowings from Other Banks, Agents, Etc.            7,838                8,278            19,427
Bills Payable                                       25,924               36,040            36,o66
Bills for Collection Being Bills Receivable        184,693              219,742           239,851
Other Liabilities                                  136,396               90,089           96,215
Acceptances, Endorsements, and Other
Obligations                                    118,721               162,790          163,012
Deposits and Other Accounts                      1,852,408           2,399,218         2,941,064
Total Liabilities                                2,325,980            2,916,157        3,495,635            D L
Capital-Paid Up                                     17,500               17,500           17j,500
Reserve Funds and Other Reserves                   18,204                20,269           23,880           x O
Profit and Loss Account                              1,243                2,778            3,057
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                2,362,927            2,956,704        3,540,072



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE IMARKETS PROJECT
Canara Bank
Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December
(Rs t'00)
1969                   1970              1971
Income
Interest and Discount                             108,094               147,299           194,825
Commission, Exchange and Brokerage                 13,728                18,906            23,009
Rents                                                 362                   340               326
Profit and Sale of Investments                       -                     -                 -
Income from Non-Banking Assets                       _                        1                15
Other Receipts                                      3,583                 5,120             7,921
TOTAL INCOME                                  125,767               171,666           226,096
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowings           58,941                78,761           10o4,547
Salaries and Allowances                            43,841                59,252            76,187
Directors' Fees and Allowances                         64                    25                59
Rents, Taxes, Insurance and Utilities               4,882                 6,233             8,078
Legal Fees                                             63                    66                92
Postage and Communications                          2,794                 3,473            14,311
Auditors? Fees                                        127                   290               288
Depreciation and Repairs                            1,995                 2,724            44,037
Stationery, Printing and Advertising                2,599                 3,586             3,999
Loss on Sale of Non-Banking Assets                      3                                       7
Miscellaneous Expenditures                         64,92                  6 931            lo.58
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                            120,231               161,341           212,189
12371               171,6661          2126,9186
CD 
Profit (Subject to Staff Bonus)                     5.3610,32-5                            13,907 
125.,767              171,0666          226,096               0)
October 2, 1972                                   =                                        =
0



INDIA
MIY3OR, AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARE;TS PROJECT
State Bank Groap
Consolidated Position as at 31st December
Liabilities              (Rs Millions)                              Assets                     (Rs Millions)
1969      1970       1971                                            1969                   1971
Capital Funds             270        290        280         Cash Inc. Balances with Banks  1,450          1,310       1,900
Deposits               13,670    15,700      22,010          Investments                      4,130        4,480      6,810
Borrowings                 820       490        980          Advances                         9,560       11,210     14,570
Bills for Collection                                         Bills Receivable
(as per Contra)        2h0       4oo         460             (as per Contra)                 240         4oo         460
Acceptances                                                 Customer Liabilities for
(as per Contra)        530       570         590            Acceptances (as per Contra)    530           570         590
Other Liabilities         880      1,030        990         Premises and Furniture              170          210        300
Other Assets                       330          300        680
TOTAL            16,1410    18,480     25,310               TOTAL                      16,410      18,,48o     250310
NOTE:  Intra-Group balances have been eliminated.
x* o
F-j
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
State Bank of Irsore
Condensed Balance Sheets at 31st December
FRs ThouS8sadB)
1969         1970          1971
Assets
Cash in Hand and with IRI                                  17,003         57,629       40,538
Balances with Other Banks                                     161            370            91
Money at Call and Short Notice
Investments in Securities, Shares,
Debentures or Bonds                                  138,780        154,293       185,028
Advances (less bad debt ) and
Bills Disccunted                                      403,800       485,561       471,375
Bills Receivable                                            3,457          5,272        10,757
Constituents'Liabilities for
Acceptances, Etc.                                       5,959
Premises Less Depreciation                                  3,654          4,281         8,148
Furniture and Fixture Less Depreciation                     1,911          2,872         3,808
Other Assets                                               16,525        17.483        13,511
TOTAL ASSETS                                          591,250       727,761       733,256
Liabilities and Equity
Borrowings from Other Banks, Agents,  Ec.                  23,193         45,890        51,734
Bills Payable                                               5,216          5,844         4,376
Bills for Collection being Bills Receivable                 3,457          5,272       10,757
Other Liabilities                                          27,858        91,376        14,988
Acceptances, Endorsements   and Other
Obligations                                             5,959          _             _
Deposits and Other Accounts                               505.908        559t426      631,183
Total Liabilities                                         571,591       707,808       713,038                     o
Capital Paid-Up                                            10,030        10,035        10,035
Reserve Funds and Other Reserves                            9,625         9,895        10,161
Profit and Loss Account                                         4             23            22
TOTAL LIABILITIESWAND EQUITY                          591,250        727,761      733,256
October 2,1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
State Bank of Mysore
Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December
(,s' 000)
1969             1970              1971
Income
Interest and Discount                                 35,471             44h,126           52,182
Comnission, Exchange and Brokerage                     5,o60              5,632             6,986
Rents                                                    106                113               528
Profit on Sale of Investments                               3                 8                 1
Income From Non-Banking Assets                          -                  -                 -
Other Receipts                                           881              1.243             1,091
TOTAL INCCJE                                     41,521             51,122            60,788
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowings              19,685             24,806            28,839
Salaries and Allowances                               15,832             20,542            25,012
Directors' Fees and Allowances                             18                21                24
Rents, Taxes, Insurance and Utilities                    959              1,110             1,472
Legal Fees                                                10                 16                 6
Postage and Communications                               406                511               578
Auditors' Fees                                              9                 9                 9
Depreciation and. Repairs                                 573               718             1,096
Stationery, Printing and Advertising                     626                716               806
Loss on Sale of Non-Banking Assets                      _-                                   -
Miscellaneous Expenditures                              .3                1.42              1.617
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                               39,091             49,791            59,1459          (D
Profit                                                 2,430              1.331             1.329            x C
41,521            51,122            60,788
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
State Bank of Hyderabad
Condensed Balance Sheets at 31st December
ts Thousands)
1969                  1970                1971
Assets
Cash in Hand and with RBI                          50,831                49,810              64,616
3alances with Other Banks                           1,211                 1,852                5,113
Money at Call and Short Notice                       -                       -
Investments in Securities, Shares,
Debentures or Bonds                           1S5,471               178,826             229,393
Advances (less bad debts) and
BiUs Discounted                               523,617               499,606             580,003
Bills Receivable                                   19,610                22,827               21,640
Constituents Liabilities for
Acceptances, Etc.                              24,369                31,376              57,572
Premises Less Depreciation                          3,765                 149971               4,944
Furniture and Fixture Less Depreciation             14,626                6,611                7,939
Other Assets                                       17 851                16,191              23,112
TOTAL ASSETS                                  800,351               812,070             994,332
Liabilities and Ecquity
Borrowings from Other Banks, Agents, Etc.         100,847                61,700              15,998
Bills Payable                                       34,149               35,969               30,466
Bills for Collection being Bills Receivable        19,610                22,827              21,6140
Other Liabilities                                  25,325                 1,149              55,835
Acceptances, Endorsements, and Other
Obligations                                    24,369                31,376              57,572
Deposits and Other Accounts                       5842936               647,723              801,372
Total Liabilities                                 789,236               800,744             982s883
Capital Paid-Up                                     5,000                 5,000               5,000
Reserve F'unds and Other Reserves                   6,107                 6,318               6,443
Drofit and Loss Account                                 8                     8                   6
TOTJAL LIABILITIES  D IUITY                   800,351               812,070             9914332
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
State Bank of Hyderabad
Condensed Profit and Lose Accounts for the Year Ended 31 st December
(Rs '000)
1969              1970              191.
Income
Interest and Discount                                  41,102            147,282           57,624
Commissions Exchange and Brokerage                      8,328             9,211            10,765
Rents                                                       2                  2                 1
Profit on Sale of Investments                               6                 22                 2
Income From Non-Banking Assets                              2              -                    1
Other Receipts                                          1.193              2.41o            2.938
TOTAL INCOME                                     50,633             58,927            71,331
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowings               21,021            22,031            26,277
Salaries and Allowances                                21,156            28,189            35,379
Directors' Fees and Allowances                              4                  3                 3
Rents, Taxes, Insurance and Utilities                   1 ,281            1 ,521            1,961
Legal Fees                                                 30                 22               11
Postage and Communications                                951              1,169            1,302
Auditors' Fees                                              9                  9                 9
Depreciation and Repairs                                  808                924            1,282
Stationery, Orinting and Advertising                      904                996            1,211
Loss on Sale of Non-Banking Assets                                             1
Miscellaneous Expenditures                              2.039              3.010             3.274
TOTAI EXPENDITURES                               48,203             57,875            70s709
Profit                                                  2,430              11052              622X
October 2, 1972                                        50,633            58,927            71,331
c



INDIA
MYSCLR AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Syndicate Bank
Condensed Balance Sheets at 31st December
(Rs Thousands)
1969                  1970              1971
Assets
Caseh in Hand and with RBI                          86,875                93,258            132,074
Balances with Other Banks                           22,384                25,874             47,431
Money at Call and Short Notice                       4,000                 5,000              2,500
Investments in Securities, Shares,
Debentures or Bonds                             456,796               462,674            613,857
Advances (less bad debts) and
Bills Discoanted                               1,049o1242           1,228,223          1,501,623
Bills Receivable                                   101,982               128,824            138,707
Constituents Liabilities for
Acceptances,  Etc.                                55,808               73,164             95,643
Premises Less Depreciation                            7,402                8,366              8,592
Furniture and Fixture Less Depreciation               8,926               12,703             14,944
Other Assets                                     .   t.518               103,167            114,153
TOTAL ASSETS                                1,874,933             2,141,9253         2,669,524
Liabilities and Equity
Borrowings from Other Banks, Agents, ftc,          119,019                66,425             10,887
Bills Payable                                       18,961                21,124             24,580
Bills for Collection being BiUs Receivable         101,982               128,824            138,707
Other Liabilities                                  101,182               140,909            167,398
Acceptances, Endorsements, and Other
Obligations                                      55,808                73,164             95,643
Deposits and Other Accounts                      1,447,222             1,677,470          2,196,389
Total Liabilities                                1,844,174             2,107,916          2,633,604
Capital-Paid Up                                     14,197                14,197             14,197
Reserve Fund and Other Reserves                     15,554                16,979             19,383
Profit and Loss Account                              1,008                 2,161              2,340
0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                1,874,933             2,1411,253         2,669,524
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Syndicate Bank
Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December
(Rs Thousands)
1969                    1970            1971
Income
Interest and Discount                            90,775                118,925           149,795
Cormission, Exchange  and Brokerage               8,766                 11,o001           13,,260
Rents                                               649                    680               900
Profit and Sale of Investments                      786                     741              245
Income from Non-Banking Assets                        4                       3                4
Other Receipts                                    3.744                  3,859             4,693
TCTAL INCOME                               104,724                135,212           168,897
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowings         50,780                 64,070            80,O97
Salaries and Allowances                          37,082                 46,954            57,383
Directorsf Fees and Allowances                        36                     20                66
Rents, Taxes, Insurance and Utilities             3,257                  4,338             5,554
Legal Fees                                            28                     34                79
Postage and Communications                        2,252                  3,001             3,795
Auditorst Fees                                       124                    268               228
Depreciation and Repairs                          1,529                   2,322             2,857
Sationery, Printing and Advertising               2,710                   2,908            3,828
Loss on Sale of Non-Banking Assets                     3
Miscellaneous Expenditures                         4,033                  4.776            6.011
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                          101 ,834               128,691           159,898
Profit (Subject to Staff Bonus)                   2,889                  6,521             8,999            1 M
104,723                135L212          168 897
October 2, 1972






ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Matters for Consideration in Subappraisal
A.   Subappraisal of Regulated Market Committees
1.   Regulated Market Committee
(a)  Legality of constitution of the RMC
(b)  Composition of the RMC
(c)  Financial position and local standing of individual
members of the RMC
(d)  Capability of the RMC to manage the affairs of the market
(e)  RMC's power to borrow and give security.
2.   Regulated Market Area
(a)  Area of operation:
(1) as defined under the Regulated Markets Act
(2) actual area from which market arrivals emanate
(b)  Notified commodities
(c)  Proportion of market arrivals, by commodity:
(1) produced within the defined market area
(2) brought to the market from outside the defined area
(d)  Population of the market area
(e)  Agriculture of the market area of operation including:
(1) crop areas
(2) annual production by commodities
(3) marketable surplus by commodities



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(4) market arrivals by commodities
(5) seasonality of arrivals
(f) Extent of irrigated land, types of irrigation, effect
of irrigation on production, plans for extending
irrigated area
(g) Degree of mechanization of:
(1) production
(2) transportation
with an assessment of likely developments.
(h) Transportation facilities within the market area and
possible developments
(i) Availability and location of storage and processing
facilities in the market area and whether owned or
operated by:
(1) public sector
(2) private sector
3.   Market Yard
(a) Location and ownership of existing market yard and
subyards
(b) Desirability of and proposals for relocating market yard
and subyards, status of land acquisition, area, price
paid or to be paid, whether use as market yard permissible
under Town Planning regulations, availability of infra-
structural services, e.g. roads, power, water and
telephones
(c) Suitability for further development of land already
owned by RMC
(d) Numbers of market intermediaries by type currently active
in market and numbers of licenses held
4.   Proposed Market Yard Development
(a) Details of proposed development and justification for
each component



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(b)  Adequacy of proposed development to cater for anticipated
market arrivals over ensuing ten years, proximity to
producing areas and public transport routes, and freedom
from damaging pollutants
(c)  Feasibility of further development if required
(d)  Technical suitability of proposed development with
particular regard to layout, design, construction
standards and costs. In this regard, particular
attention would be paid to ensuring that, on completion
of the proposed works, the yard would be complete and
adequate for projected arrivals. Specifically, for
each market being developed:
(1) adequate drainage would be provided and water and
sewerage systems would be constructed to minimum
standards of the Indian Standards Institute
(2) access and internal roads would be hard-surfaced
and to a standard required for projected traffic
(3) a wall or fence would be built around the yard
(4) adequate office space for RMC staff would be
available
(5) suitable land for expansion would be available
(6) adequate space would exist for shops and godowns
for market intermediaries and a sufficient number
would have indicated their intention to construct
these facilities.
(e) Proposed schedule of implementation and outlay of each
phase of the scheme
(f)  Proportion of proposed development to be executed by:
(1)  RMC
(2) market intermediaries
(3) others
(g) Acceptability of the proposed development in relation
to traffic flows on the roads surrounding the market



ANNEX 11
Page 4
5.   General
(a) RMC's repayment capacity. This will involve a detailed
appraisal of projected market arrivals taking into account
the possibility of:
(1) changes in the cropping pattern in the market area
of operations in response to market demand
(2) increased yields resulting from the introduction of
new techniques
(3) infrastructural changes, including the development
of adjacent markets, which may have an effect on
flow patterns
(4) adequacy of proposed lease-terms for facilities to
be leased out and demand for same
(b) RMC's functions and procedures with particular regard to:
(1) licensing of market functionaries
(2) collection of market fees
(3) settlement of market disputes
(4) collection and dissemination of market information
(5) grading and storage procedure
(6) enforcement of Regulated Market Act
(c) RMC's financial status, accounting standards and auditing
arrangements
(d) Acceptability of proposed development to:
(1) producers
(2) market intermediaries, particularly the extent: to
which they are prepared to develop facilities in the
market yard
(3) the municipality in which the yard is located
(e) Status of any legal disputes involving regulated market
or RMC
(f) Staff employ d by RMC: numbers, functions and calibre,
and whether adequate to operate the market



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(g) Where a facility (e.g. building for canteen or grain dryer) is
constructed for lease, the likelihood of its being leased and
probable rental in relation to costs including capital costs.
B.   Subappraisal of Market Intermediaries Within the Jurisdiction of RMCs
Operating Under the Project
1.   Overall market arrivals from market areas; this involves
reference to subappraisal under "A" above.
2.   Nature of Subborrower
(a) Whether company, partnership, cooperative, or single
proprietorship
(b)  Details of ownership.  Experience of staff.
(c) Description of business activities (as commission agent,
trader, other) including details of commodities, tons
handled, locations, etc. Nature of any legal disputes.
(d) Details of assets owned.
(e) Details of licenses currently held to carry out business.
3.  Financial Position
(a) Five-year financial history including balance sheets and
income statements.
(b) Nature of outstanding liabilities including contingent
liabilities.
4.   Project for Which Subloan Requested
(a) Location of proposed building; ownership or lease arrange-
ments for plot.
(b) Design of proposed building, including necessary approvals
by RMC and SMD.
(c)  Ccat estimates and estimated phasing.
5.   Subborrower's Repayment Capacity
(a) Projected net income. This involves projecting: tonnage
of each commodity handled, by activity; margin on each;
and all operating costs, including rentals and market fees.
(b) Other debt-service requirements (if any).
October 2, 1972






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
The Agricultural Finance Corporation
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was established follow-
ing the introduction by GOI in early 1968 of a scheme for social control of
commercial banks under which the banks were required to substantially
increase their supply of credit to various priority sectors including
agriculture. Up to that time the banks' lending had been strictly commercially
and security oriented and they did not have sufficient experience in agricul-
tural financing to greatly expand their activities in that area with the
rapidity which was expected of them. The Indian Banks Association therefore
promoted AFC to provide an organization which would facilitate participation
by the commercial banks in agricultural development.
2.        AFC was incorporated under the Companies Act 1956 on April 10,
1968 with an authorized capital of Rs 1 billion of which Rs 100 million was
issued and subscribed and RS 50 million paid up. Membership (Appendix 13-1)
which is restricted to banks included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act 1934, comprised 37 banks (since reduced to 36 following
a merger of two member banks) and of these 14, whose holdings totalled nearly
86% of the share capital, were nationalized in July 1969.
3.        The stated functions of AFC may be summarized as follows:
(a) the financing of agriculture (constructed in its widest sense),
either alone or in participation with other institutions,
particularly member banks;
(b) the undertaking of promotional or development activities
which would facilitate the provision of finance to agricul-
ture, particularly from member banks.
4.        AFC's management is vested in a Board of Directors which is
restricted to 25 members of whom three may be appointed by the President of
India (termed "the Government Directors"), one by Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC) and the remainder by the members with the exception that
the Directors may co-opt to the Board not more than four persons with
expert knowledge of agriculture, agricultural operations or agricultural
finance. At the end of 1971 the Board of Directors comprised a Chairman
and 16 other directors including two Government Directors, an ARC appointee
and the Managing Director who is the chief executive officer responsible
to the Board for the day-to-day operations of AFC.
5.        The head office of AFC is in Bombay and it has a regional office
in Calcutta and four branch offices in the States of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh
Rajesthan and Tamil Nadu.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
6.        AFC has six departments, namely, Projects, Research and Planning,
Information, Loans, Accounts and Administration. The Projects Department,
which exists to identify and evaluate projects for financing by member
banks, is staffed by ten Project executive officers assisted by ten
Project officers and has expertise in land development, agro-industry,
agronomy, dairying, marketing and fisheries. Included in the Department
is a Project Appraisal Wing, staffed by two cost accountants, two statisti-
cians, a market economist and a lawyer, who carry out economic, financial
and legal appraisals of projects.
7.        During the past two years, as a result of the increased willingness
by commercial banks to commit funds to the financing of agriculture, AFC
has concerned itself more with assisting members to develop their agricultural
lending than with involvement in direct financing. This is done either
by formulating projects which are then suggested to the banks for financing
or, alternatively, by acting as consultants to the banks in the appraisal
of particular projects or in surveys of Lead districts. 1/ Among schemes
which have been identified and appraised by AFC and subsequently taken
over by commercial banks for financing are an integrated agricultural
services project in Maharashtra providing credit for well construction,
purchase of pump sets and working capital; a scheme for the construction
of a market yard and ancillary services in Tamil Nadu; a dairy program in
Maharashtra, a forestry scheme in Mysore (involving total financing of
Rs 53 million) and a number of schemes for financing State Electricity
Boards for the energization of irrigation wells. AFC has completed an
extensive survey and formulated agricultural development schemes for Syndi-
cate Bank in one of its Lead Districts in Mysore has carried out a Lead
Bank Survey for Indian Overseas Bank in Tamil Nadu, and has prepared
comprehensive agricultural development schemes for Allahabad Bank in two
of its Lead districts in Uttar Pradesh.
8.        AFC is gradually building up a cadre of expertise and developing
a methodology for project formulation and appraisal, and has initiated a
number of seminars for disseminating information to bank staff which will
assist the banks in expanding their own appraisal and supervision functions.
It has also published a manual 2/ to assist prospective agricultural borrowers
to formulate loan applications.
1/ Under the Lead Bank Scheme of the Reserve Bank, all 336 districts in
the country (with the exception of the metropolitan areas of Bombay,
Calcutta and Madras and Union Territories of Chandigarh, Delhi and
Goa) are allocated among the major scheduled banks. The Lead Bank is
responsible for co-ordinating the efforts of the financial institutions
in the district and liaising with the district authorities in the
interests of Lead district development. Lead banks are required to
survey their respective Lead districts to identify areas for bank expan-
sion in the district.
2/   "Guidelines for Formulating Schemes and Projects" - published by Agri-
cultural Finance Corporation Limited, Bombay 1970, Rs 6.00.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        During the less than four years of its existence, AFC has
experienced teething troubles and has been subject to criticism -- notably,
that it has sought the easier avenues of agricultural lending for itself
and member banks in that by far the largest single type of loan arranged
by AFC has been the loans to State Electricity Boards for the energization
of irrigation wells (some 96% of total disbursements to end 1971 were for
this purpose), and that disbursement of loans for other purposes have
been extremely slow. AFC's response to the first of these major criticisms
is that there was, and indeed still is, an immense demand for finance for
the elctrification of pump sets the satisfaction of which could have a
significant impact on production and that, further, as a result of AFC's
work, it was discovered that State Electricity Boards were losing Rs 300
on each connection under existing procedures; this was rectified and, addi-
tionally, the cost of electric connection to pump sets was reduced by
25%. With regard to criticisms of slow disbursements, AFC claims that,
while this has been to some extent due to AFC's failure to correctly
assess borrower demand, other factors, particularly inadequacies in the
agricultural extension service at the State level, outside AFC's direct
control, which are now being rectified, have been responsible.
10.       AFC has been undergoing a period of uncertainty as to its future
in that both the Banking Commission and the National Commission on Agricul-
ture have recommended that it be merged with other organizations, particu-
larly the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, with a view to consolidating
the expertise and experience of the various agencies invclved in agricultural
finance. These suggestions are being strongly resisted by AFC and the
outcome is still unpredictable. Nonetheless, AFC is well managed and its
staff, though still limited in number, is dynamic and has built up a degree
of expertise which would enable it, whether as a separate entity or as the
technical wing of some larger organization, to organize the necessary loan
appraisals and supervision for banks participating under the project.
November 24, 1972






ANNEX 12
Appendix 12-1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Finance Corporation Limited
List of Members (by Categories) and by Shareholdings
No. of Shares of      Total    Percentage
Rs 10,000 Each    Holdings by Holdings by
Category    Name of Member   (Rs 5,000 per share paid) Categories  Categories
Nationalized
Banks:       1. Central Bank
of India                 1,552
2. Punjab National
Bank                      1,200
3. Bank of India             1,170
4. Bank of Baroda              882
5. United Commer-
cial Bank                   775
6. United Bank of
India                      475
7. Canara Bank                 425
8. Dena Bank                   382
9. Allahabad Bank              380
10. Union Bank of
India                       375
11. Syndicate Bank              275
12. Indian Bank                 275
13. Bank of Maharash-
tra                        225
14. Indian Overseas
Bank                        200             8,591         85.91
Banks Not
Nationalized:
1. Andhra Bank Ltd.            125
2. The Bank of Rajas-
than Ltd.                   40
3. The vijaya Bank
Ltd.                         40
4. Belgaum Bank Ltd.            15
5. The United Western
Bank Ltd.                    10
6. The South Indian
Bank Ltd.                    10
7. The Vysya Bank Ltd.           3



ANNEX 12
Appendix 12-1
Page 2
No. of Shares of      Total    Percentage
Rs 10,000 each    Holdings by Holdings by
Category    Name of Member   (Rs 5,000 per share paid)  Categories  Categories
8. Vareilly Corp. (Bank)
Ltd.                         2
9. The Bank of Madura
Ltd.                         2
10. The Karur Vysya Bank
Ltd.                         2
11. Tanjore Permanent
Bank Ltd.                     1
12. The Karnataka Bank Ltd.       1
13. The South India Bank
Ltd. (Tinnevelly)             1
14. The Benares State Bank
Ltd.                         1
15. The Nedungadi Bank Ltd.       1             254           2.54
Foreign
Banks       1. National & Grindlays
Bank Ltd.                  725
2. The Chartered Bank         225
3. Mercantile Bank Ltd.        100
4. Bank of America NT & SA    60
5. First National City Bank   20
6. American Express Inter-
national Banking Corp.      20
7. Banque Nationale de
Paris                        5            1,155          11.55
TOTAL:  36 Members                          10,000         100.00
October 2, 1972



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Project Evaluation
Purpoe
1.        To examine the economic impact of the project and the changing
pattern of marketing of agricultural products in the State.
Guidelines for Study
2.        The study would be conducted during the project disbursement period.
At least three markets out of those selected for development in the first
year of the project and three selected in the second would be chosen for
study. In each case at least two markets would be where the bulk of trade
was still conducted in the bazaar and project investments would be to
move the market to a new site. Markets chosen for study should reflect
a variety of sizes, commodities handled, and stages of development. In
order to record changes, data collection would start from time of approval
of the RMC subloans involved.
3.        One investigator would be assigned per market studied.  If the
investigator cannot be located in the market center, he should be able to
make frequent trips to the market yard, e.g. two trips per week in the
offseason and a continuous stay in the market place for two or three months
after the major harvests.
4.        The data gathering would be a combination of statistical informa-
tion and careful direct observation. For this purpose each investigator
would maintain a diary.
General Data Requirements for Each Market Studied
5.   (a)  Market Area, both as defined by SMD and as exists in practice.
In this regard, a sample survey of market arrivals would be
conducted to plot the actual area serving the market by
principal commodity. Trends in production, area irrigated,
yields, marketable surplus, area under crops, introduction
of new practices, employment and population in the market
area would also be identified.
(b) Market Arrivals - history of arrivals by commodity and season.
(c) Market Departures - destinations, seasonality, modes of
transport, lot sizes.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(d) Market Participants. The above survey of arrivals would also
identify proportions of deliveries to the market by:
-    farmers (by size)
-    middlemen
-    others
The average size of lot, method of transport and distance
from origin of the goods, by commodity, would also be
indicated for farmers (by size) and middlemen. Sources
and prices of inputs (including credit) would also be
identified. In addition, the number of market intermedia-
ries would be indicated.
(e) Market Regulation. History of regulation in this market
and quantities of notified commodities; activities of RMC,
including revenues, costs and investments; disputes, if
any; pattern of trade; market charges; grading and
standards.
(f) Market Intelligence. Details of information distributed
on prices, quantities, grades, etc. In this regard,
the above survey of arrivals would examine how various
participants actually obtain information on prices, grades,
quantities purchased, stocks held, shipments, etc. The
evaluation would also examine which media (telephone,
post, etc.) are principally used, and their adequacy.
(g) Available Storage. Details of quantities, quality, ownership,
tariffs, costs, utilization (by season and commodity).
(h)  Prices.  Weekly or monthly prices (as available) by commodity.
Care would be taken to identify variety and grade and to
record average (or model) price and range.
(i) Attitudes of farmers and market intermediaries to changes
in prices and regulation and how these attitudes affect
production and market practices.
(j) Auxiliary Treatment of Commodities in Market Yards. Extent
of cleaning, drying, dehulling, processing in market yard.
Specific Data Objectives
6.        For each market studied, data should be collected as required to
evaluate the economic impact of the project. The following are indicative
(but not limiting) of what would be required:



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(a) Delays to Vehicles. In order to assess the extent to which
project investments reduce the cost of congestion in
market bazaars, for RMICs where the trade is still conducted
in the bazaar, the following data would be collected, before
and after the trade shifts:
-    times taken by types of vehicles (mainly trucks and
bullock carts) to travel from the edge of the town to
destination in market (e.g. merchant's shop-cum-
godown), unload or collect goods, and travel out of
market area;
-    opportunity costs of trucks and other vehicles.  In
the case of lorries, information would be collected on
rates charged for trucks, and vehicle operating
costs.
(b) Time Savings Through Use of Tender System of Sale. Both
tender system and auction sale would be studied to measure
aggregate time required by buyers sellers, commission agents
and RIC staffs in conducting a given volume of sales
under each. The opportunity costs of the times involved
would be identified by examining the returns and costs of
the various participants. Specifically, data on volumes
handled, margins, operating costs and profits of typical
market intermediaries would be collected.
(c) Reduced Cost of Social Overhead. For markets requiring
the shifting of trade from the bazaar, the effect on
municipal budgets of reduced costs of cleaning, sewerages,
water, police and fire protection would be examined.
(d) Reduced losses Through Use of Heated Air Dryers. The evaluation
would collect data on the following:
-    tonnage of arrivals of high moisture grain
-    prices of grain of normal moisture (up to 12%)
-    prices of high moisture (over 12%) grain
-    tonnage of grain dried by hot air dryers
-    charges and operating costs of hot air dryers
(e) Reduced Storage Losses. Investigators would interview
market intermediaries and examine records to obtain
information on actual storage losses on existing and new
storages.
(f) Grades and Standards. The evaluation would also examine the
extent to which investments under the project are accompanied
by changes in grades and standards, and their use by buyers
and sellers.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Other
7.        Information would be collected on the extent to which the
markets are used to disseminate information to farmers. A record would
be made of farmers' meetings held, printed matter distributed, and other
extension activities. The extent of credit (e.g. banks) and other input
supplies provided at the market yard before and after development would
be indicated.
8.        The evaluation would also note, and to the extent possible quantify,
changes (benefits or costs) accompanying investments under the project.
9.        Progress in implementing improved grades and standards and their
use would also be examined.
10.       For selected important commodities, a comparison would be made
of total marketing costs of the system of sale through regulated markets
compared with sale through alternative systems (e.g. direct sale to buyer).
November 24, 1972



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
MYSOR1E AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
A. Market Committees
1.        To study the financial viability of RMCs under the project, 4
financial models have been prepared, with the assistance of the State Marketing
Department, Public Works Department and Town Planning Department.
New Markets (7 markets) 1/
(a)  Model A (Appendix 15-1) represents new construction
of a large market (annual turnover about 86,000 tons/
year on a yard of about 10 ha).
(b) Model B (Appendix 15-2) represents new construction
of a small-to medium-sized market (30,000 tons/year).
Average size of the developed market yard would be
about 5 ha.
Improvements to Existing Markets (23 markets) 1/
In these markets some investments have already been made
in the new yard (often including some land-levelling, an
office building, and one or two auction platforms), although
the trade frequently has not yet shifted to the new site.
(c) Model C (Appendix 15-3a) represents improvements to
a medium-sized existing market (50,000 tons/year).
(d)  Model D (Appendix 15-3b) represents improvements to
a small existing market (10,000 tons/year).
Revenues of RMCs
2.        The revenues of an RMC are a function of the tonnage traded,
the average value per ton and the market fee percentage. For the markets
tentatively selected for development under the project, market arrivals
1/   Total project costs (Annex 7) were based on a detailed analysis of the
investment needs of 30 markets. The models here are illustrative only
and do not correspond exactly to the average investment required by
each size-class; hence, the number of markets of each model times its
investment cost will not correspond exactly with total project costs.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
are projected to grow by 4-1/2% per year for the first five years, 3% during
the next five and 1-1/2% thereafter. This projection of growth is
conservative when viewed against the Statewide growth in arrivals during
the preceding five years of 9% per year (and much higher for certain
individual markets). The average value of the arrivals to the selected
markets during 1971-72 has been about Rs 1,390/ton, excluding the three
main markets for arecanuts, an especially high valued crop. However,
the prices for groundnut, cotton and paddy have fluctuated considerably
over the last five years (Annex 2) and in 1972 GOI felt the need to
support cotton prices and commenced bulk purchases. Therefore, in preparing
financial models, the average arrival value has been reduced 10% (to
Rs 1,250/ton).
3.        A market fee of 1% has been assumed, the rate that the State
Government proposes to enact as applicable for all RMCs under the project
(text, para 4.06). At a market fee of 1% the three models show attractive
rates of return (36% for Model A, 20% for Model B, 29% for Model C and 18%
for Model D). The rate of return is, however, very sensitive to changes in
market fee, as indicated in the following table:
Rate of Return
Market Fee                       Model A   Model B   Model C   Model D
a.0%                            36         20         29        18
0.9%                             28        16         20        14
0.8%                             20        11         11         9
0.7%                             13         6          2         6
0 .6%                             5         -          -          1
4.        The above rates of return are sensitive in a virtually identical
way to changes in average prices of products traded or volume of arrivals.
For example, a 20% drop in average prices traded at the "D" model would reduce
its rate of return to 9%. A drop in volume of arrivals due to unfavorable
weather conditions or some other factor, would have a similar effect.  Be-
cause of this sensitivity to changes in volume or average prices, the increase
of mirkel: fee to 1% of the value of commodities handled would be a condition
of board presentation of the project.
Operatin Costs
5.        The projected operating costs are based on an analysis of the
actual costs of existing RMCs and consist to a large extent of salaries.
The secretary, his assistant, the accountant and the auditor are state
civil servants and their salaries are paid by State Government. To meet
those expenses and also RMC election costs, SMD, under the Act, levies
a uniform contribution to the Consolidated Fund of the State.  The levy
last year was a uniform 25% of the gross revenues of all RMCs. When the
market fee increases it is assumed that the contribution to the Consolidated
Fund would remain at the same absolute level as earlier.  In addition, 5%
of ma RMCs growth revenues is paid to the State Marketing Board as a fund
to aid financially weak RMCs, for promotlion of grading and standardization,



ANNEX 14
Page 3
and for education in marketing. Total operating costs are assumed to
increase by 3% per year during the first 10 years and 1-1/2% per year
thereafter. Details of operating costs are shown in Appendix 7-2.
Investment Costs
6.        These are based on a detailed analysis of what is required for
a market to function in an efficient manner (Annex 5). Detailed cost
estimates are in Appendix 7-1. For all three models, additional investment
in the yard would have to be made during the life of the project (after
about 7 and 14 years) due to increased arrivals. The outlay would mostly
be in additional roads and utilities to allow more market intermediaries
to utilize the yard.
7.        Because of differences in operating characteristics the terms
of subloans would differ in each case among the RMCs. The subloans in each
case would cover up to 95% of the investment cost and would be for 10
years for Iodel A, 15 years for B and D, and 12 years for C, all including
two years' grace. Projected cash flows for the model markets are shown in
Appendices 14-1, 14-2, 14-3(a) and 14-3(b).
B. Market Intermediaries
8.        The project would provide funds to market intermediaries for
construction of shops-cum-godowns. The average size of an adequate shop-
cum-godown is about 250 m2 with an estimated cost of Rs 75,000 and would include
a display yard, office, and godown for working storage.
9.        The lot for the shop-cum-godown is assumed to be either already
owned or obtained by lease from the RMC.
10.       Good data on the revenues and costs of market intermediaries are
scarce; however, a financial model for a typical market intermediary was
prepared (Appendix 14-4). A typical market intermediary (commission agent
and/or trader) gets his income partly from his 1-1/2% commission on goods
for which he acts as commission agent, and partly from trading with his
own commodities at an assumed margin of 4% (based on a study of the workings
of jowar markets in Maharashtra).
11.       The subloan to the market intermediary would cover 75% of the
construction cost and would be for eight years including one year's grace.
12.       The financial rate of return is estimated at 18%.
C. Financial Intermediaries
12.       PCB's would borrow from ARC at 6-1/2% and on-lend to subborrowers
at 9%, providing a 2-1/2% spread. In addition, PCBs would provide about



ANNEX 14
Page 4
18% of subloans from their own funds. PCBs' repayments to ARC would parallel
collections from subborrowers. The projected cash flow for PCBs is shown in
Appendix 14-5 and indicates they would accumulate sufficient resources to
cover risk and overhead and generate a satisfactory profit.
13.       ARC would borrow from GOI at 6% (including 1/4% for prompt
repayment) and on-lend at 6-1/2%. ARC would provide from its own resources
about 2% of all subloans. Repayment to GOI would be after collection of
all subloans. A projected cash flow for ARC is shown in Appendix 15-6 which
shows that it would accumulate sufficient resources to cover overheads and
risk and generate a satisfactory profit.
February 28, 1973



INDIA
U'SOFE A0RICOITURA.I W3OLESALE MARKETS PRO'JECT
RSC Cast Flow Projections - odel '"A" Market
(Bs '000)
YEAF         '        2         S                           "4  .    7        8         9        10        11       12       _lS        14       1S        IL-6  1.7         .ISf       12       i
I.  INCOME STATEMENT PRO2ECTIONS
Market fees 1/                                      1,075    1,123    1,174    1,227    1,282    1,320    1,360    1,40o    1,443    1,486    1,508    1,531    1,554    1,577    1,6oo    1,624    1,646    1,673    1,698    1,723
License fees  2/                                       1'       17        17       20        20       20        22       22        22       24       24        24        25       25        25        26       26        26        27       27
Rentals  3!                                            14        14       14       14        14       14        15       15        15       15       15        15        15       17        17        17       17        17        17       17
TOTAL REVENOES                  (1)                  1,i66    I,154    1,205    1,261    1,316    1,364    1,397    1,438    1,487    1,525    1,547    1,570    1,594    1,619    1,642    1,667    1,691    1,716    1,742    1,767
Operating Costs                 (2)                    467      48i       495      510      526       542      558       575      592       610      619       628      637       647       657      669       677       687      697       708
Profit before Interest nd
Depreciation                    (3)                    439      673       710      751      790       822      839       363      688       915      928       942      957       972       985      998    1,014    1,029    1,045    1,059
Interest project ton.  2/                              53      189       252      252      242       216      190       162      131        97       61        21       -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -
Depreciations   6/                                    151       151      151      151       151      151      201       201      201       201      201       201      201       301       301      301       301       301      301       301
NET PROFITS (LOSSES)                                  425      333       307      348      399       455      448       500      556       617      666      720       756       671      684       697       713       728      744       758
TI. CASH 'LOW PROJECTIONS
Invest-ent coots  7/           (4)                  1,512    1,513        -        -        -         -       700        -        -         -        -         -        -        700       -         -         -         -        -         -
Debt service  8/               (5)                     63      189       252      379       505      505      505       505      505       505      505       252       -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
CASH OUTFLTd                   (6)                  2,042    2,183       747      889    1,031    1,247    1,763    1,080    1,097    1,115    1,L24          880      637    1,347       657       669       677       687      697       708
Total of lines (2).(4),(5)
Lon rece-ied   9/               (7)                 1,393    1,398        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -
CARH INFLOW                    (8)                 2s504    2,552    1,205    1,261    1,316    1,364    1,397    1,438    1,480    1,525    1,547    1,570    1,594    1,619    1,642    1,667    1,691    1,716    1,742    1,767
Total of lines (1). (7)
NET CASH INFLOW                                       442      369      458       372      285       317     (366)      358      383       41o      423       690      957       272       985      998    1,014    1,029    i,o45    1,059
Line (8) less line (6)
Interest on acc,ulaOted                                 -       28        52       82       109      133      i60       148      178       212      249       289       348      426       468       555      649       748       855      969
surplus  jL/
TOTAL CASH FLOW
- AnnusL                                              462       397      510      454       394      450      (206)     506       561      621       672      979    1,305       698    1,453    1,553    1,663    1,777    1,900    2,028
- Curulative                                          452      859    1,369    1,823    2,217    2,667    2,461    2,967    3,528    4,0    L4,822    5,301    7,106    7,804    9,257   10,810   12,473   14,250                  16,150   18,178
IIT. FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
NET COST/BENEFIT 2TrREAN                             873)    (840)     710       751      790       822      139       863      888       915      928       942      957       272       985      998    1,014    1,029    i,o45    1,059
line (3) less line (4)
Rate of Return: 36%
1/ ArrieaaL  o' 86,000 tons in year 1,erpected to increase 4.5% p.a. 'irst five yewrs, 3% P.s. next file,
1.5% p.a. thereafter.  Average price or arrival. Rs 1,250/ton.  Aa.ket fee (i%) collected on 1005% O
arrivals from beginning.
2/ Increase in proportlon to arrivals.
I lncludes rent from canteen and hot air dryer.
/ Increase os  3% P.as  first 10 years, 1.5% p..a thereafter.  Detailo An Appendices 7-2 and 7-3'
T/ ntermst prejeot lorn 9% p.s
/ Straight line depreciatios.  Assumed econsnic lifetime of the rarket  ibout 20 years.  No resi         v.l value.
7/ Con.nist  of ineatlment cash outlays of gs 2,944,ODO plus stamp duty (2.25%) and appraisal fee (0.5%).
81 10 years repayment including 2 years grace.
2' 95% of itvestnent excluding stamp duty and appraisal fee.
20/ Asese 6% p.s. a. 
october 2, 1972



MYSORE AOSICULTURAL WHOLESALE MAPESTS PP07ECT
P.MC Cash Flow Pro ec:ions - Model "B" NW.rket
in Is  O00)
YEAII             1        2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10       11       12      13       14       15       16     1j         18       1.°       20
S    INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS
Market fee 1/                                      375      392      410      423     447      46i      474      489      524     519      526      534      542      550      558      567      575      584      592       600
License fee/                                         7        7        7        8        8       8        9        9        9       10      10       13       10       10       10C      1 1       1       11       11        1
Rentals  3/                                         10       10       10       1C      10       10       11       11       11      11       11       11       11       12       12       12       12      12       12         12
TOTAL REVENUES                                  i)       392     409      427      446      465      479     494      509      524      540     547      555      563      572      580      590      598      607      615       623
operating  osts _                              ¢2)       172     177      132      188      193     199      205      211      217      224      227     231      254      237      241      245      249      250      256       26D
Profit before Interest and Lepreciations   (3)           220     232      245      253      272     28E       289     298      307      316      320     324      329      335      339      345      349      355      353       3>3
Interest project loan   5/                          33       96      130      130     127      122      115      108      100       92      82       72       62       5D       37       23        3       _        _        _
Depreciations 6/                                    75       03       78       78       78      78       96       96       96       96      96       96       96      132      132      132     132      132      132       132
NET PROFITS (LOSSES)                                     109       56      37       50       67      8E        78      94      3n       128      142     156      171      153      170      190      209      223      22-       231
TASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Investmwent costs 7'                      (4)      783      783       -                 -       -       250       -        -        -       -        -        -       250       -        -        -
Debt sercice  p/                          (5)       33       90      130      162     193      193      193      193      193     193      193      193      193      193      193      133       98
£4AS19 O   FLOW                                          968    1058      312      350      386      392     648      4o4      410      417      420     424      427      680      434      438      347      252      256       26-
Total of lines (2), (4). (5'
Loan re-eived  2/                         (7)      724       24
CASH INFLOW                                     3)      1116    1133      427      446      465      479     494      509      524      54o      547      555     563      572      58c      590      598      607      615       623
Total of lines (1)?7)
NET CASh PLOW                                           128        75     115       9        79       87    (154)    105       124      123      127     131      136    (108)    146        152      251      355      359       3^3
Line (8) lens line (6)
Interest on acceIslated  -urpln   1 )/              -         8       13       20      27       34       41       34       42       52      62       74       86       99       99      113     129      152    Lw         215
TOTAL CA£ 8 LOW
_ Ann-ol                                           128       83      123      112     1o6      121    (113)    139        156     175      189      205      222       ;9)    245       265     38D      5°o      5;1?      578
- Tnlative                                         128      211      359      455     561      659      569      708    834    1039    1228    1433    s655    1646    1891    2156    2536    3043    35">                ulO3
III  FINANCIAL RATE OP RETURN
NET COST/RE1EIT  STREAM                                (563)   (551)    245       256      272      280       39     298      307      316      320      324      329      85      339      345      349      355      359       363
_ine (3) less tine (4)
Rate of Retoro 209
1/  Arrivals of 30,000 tons in  year 1 expected to increase 4.5% p... first five ye3rs, 3% p.a. nest fivo yearn
and 1.S p.a. thereafter.  Average price of arrislo  iS 1250'ton.  The earket fee (1S is colle-ted on
l30% of arrlcels free beginning.
2' Increase in proportion to arrivals.
3/  Includes rmt from canteen and hot air dryer.
V/  Increase of 3% p.s. first 11 years, 1.55% p... tHereafter; detailn in Appen-in  7-2 and  7-3.
C   Interest project loan 9% p.a.
Straight line depreciation.  Asouned econosinc lifeti3e of the market 3boul 20 yearn.  So re.id,sca] se.
7 Consists of incest-ent ca,h sotlays of Rs 1,52.!,300  pl-s st-sop +lty (2.;Ef) nd appraisal fee (°.4%).
ARerage ti-e for construction 2 years.  Additinnal in-estm.nt from own funds needed year 7 and 14 to cope
vtth increasing asriv.lo.
8/  15 years repayment including 2 years gro..e.
j/  95% of Invest.ment enxcluding starmp duty and appraisal fee.
10/ isssUe 6% p...
October 2, 1972'



INDIA
-MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
RMC Cash Flow Projections - ?bunl "C" Market
(iin Rs '000)
YEAP        1       2        3       4        5       6        7       8       9      10       fL      12     1J         14      15       16      17       18      19        20
I    INCOME STATEMENT PROCCTIONS
Market fee                                       625      653     683     713      745     767      790     814      838     864     877      890      903     920      930     944      958     973      987     1102
License fee                                       13       13      13       15      15      15       16      16       16      18      i8       18      19       19       19      20       20      20       21       21
Rentels 3/                                        11      1fL      L        11      11      11       12      12       12      12      12       12      12       13       13      13       13      13       13       13
TOTAL REVENUES                              (1)       649     677      707      739     771     793      818     842      866     894     907      920     934      952     962      977      991    lOOj   1321       1136
Operating Costs 4/                          (2)        385     396     4o8      421     433      446     459     473      487     502      510     517      525     533      541     549      557      565     574       583
Profit before Interest and Depreciation   (3)          264     281     299      318     338      347     359      369     379     392      397     403      4o9     419      421     428      434      441     447       453
Interest project loan 5/                          31       91      122    122      118     110      100      90       80      68      55       40      25        9        -       -        -        -       -         -
Depreciation 6/                                   74       74      74       74      74       74     103     103      103     103     103      103      103     160      160     160      160     166      160      160
NET PROFITS (LOSSES)                                  159      116     103      122     146     163      15i    1i6       196     221     239      20       2061    250      251     268      274     281      287      293
IT   CASH FLOW PRO:ICTOXiS
Investment cost                         (4)      735      737      -        -       -        -      400       -       -       -        -       -        -      400
Debt service 8/                         (5)        31      91     122      167     212     212      212     212      212     212     212      212      212     106
CASH jUTFiOd                                 (6)      1152    1221-    530      585      45      58    10i1       685     s99     714      722     729      737    1039      541      549     557      565     574       583
Totals of lines (2), (4). (5)
Loan received 9/                        (7)      681      68i      -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       _        _       _        _        _       -        _       -         _
CAS:, INFLOW                                 (")      1330    1358     707      739     771      793     818      8i2     866     894      907     920      934      952     962      977     991    11O6    1021      1336
Total of lines (1' , (7)
NET ('ASH FLOW                                         178     134     177      151     112      135    (253)    157      167     i8o      185     191      197      (87)    421      428     434      441     447       453
Line (8) lass line (6)
Interest  n Accrued Surplu   2/                            11      19       31      42       52      63      52       65      78       94     n1o      129     i48      152    1i6       223     263      305      353
TOTAL CASH FLOW
- Annual                                        178      149     196      182     168     137    (19o)    209       232     258     279      301      326      61      573     614      657     704      752      S33
- Acnusulative                                  173      3?2    519       701     869    1056      846    1075    1307    1565    1644    2145    2471    2532    3105    3719    4376    5080    5832           6635
III FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
NET COST/BEINEIIT STREAM                              (472)   (45c)    299      318      338     347      (41)    369     379      392     397      413     409       19     421      428     434      441     447       453
Line (3) lenn line (4)
Rate of Return 29g
A IrrLvals 50,030 tons in year lexpected ts increase  4.5% p.a. first five years, 3.0% nex' fine yenrs
-    and 1.5% p.s. thereafter.  4verage price of arrivals Rs. 1,250/ten.  The market Cee (1%) is collected
en 120% of arrivals from beginnisg.
j   Increase in proportion to arrivals.
Includes rent frme canteen and hot air dryer.
1ncrease of 3% p.s. first 10 years, 1.5% p.s. thereafter.  Detuils in Appeniix 7-2 and 7-3.
.' Interest proect loss 9% p.s.
6/ Straig8t line lepreciution.  Ass-sad economic lifetine of the market about 20 years.  No residuaL va-s.
7/  Consists of investa,en,  oash outlays of As 1,54,',00 plus stas isty (7.9%) and appraisal fee (1.5%).
Auerage tire for comstruction 2 years.  Additional Invteste- fr.. o-an Dons3 needed year 7 and IU, t,
epy sith iwressing orit-le.
S8 1' years repayment including 7 years grsce.
2/ 95% of investment exncuding steV  duty and appraisal fee.
30' Asssee 6t p.c.
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICT]TUPAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJET0
RM4C cah Flow Projections - Model "D" Market
tin Rs 'O00)
1       2       3        4        5       6        7       8        9        10      11       12       13      14       15       16      17       18      19       20
I.  INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS
Market fee  i/                                    125     131      137     143      149     153      158     163      166      173     175      178      ISO     183      i86      189     192      194      197      200
License fee  2/                                     5       5        5       6        6       6        6        6       6        7       7        7        7        7       7        8        8                         3 9
Rentals  /                                          8       8        8       8        a       8        9        9       9        9       9        9        9      10       10       10       10       10      10       10
TOTAL REVES                                  (1)       138     144      150     157      163     167      173      178     183      189     191      194      196     200      203      207      210     212      215      219
Operating Costs 4/                           (2)        57      59       60      62       64      66       68       70      72       74      75       77       78      79       BO       Al       Q2       S4       t5      96
Profit before Interest and Denreciation      (3)        91      85       90      95       99     101      105      108     ill      115     116      117      LI8     121      123      126      128     128      130      132
Interest on project loan  5/                       13      39       52      48       45      4i       38       34      31       27      24       20       16      13        9        5        5      -        -
Depreciation  6/                                   32      32       32      32       32      32       36       36      36       36      36       36       36      44       44       44       44       44      44       44
NET PROFITS (LOSSES)                                    36      14        6      15       22       28      31       38      44       52       56      61       66      64       70       77       79       84      *6       88
II.  CASH FLOW PRJECTIONS
Investment cost Z/                      (4)       321     321       -       -        -       -        6o       -       -        -       -        -        -       6o
Debt  serviceos                         (5)        13      39       52      66       80      8o       80       8o      80       80      so       So       80      80       80       So       4o      -                 -
CASH OUTFLOW
Total of Lines (2), (4), (5)            (6)       391     419      112     128      144     146      208     150      152      154     155      157      158     219      16o      i6i     122       84       S5       86
Lomn received  2/                       (7)       297     297       -       -        _        -       _        _       -        _       _        _        _       -        _        -        _       _        _        _
CASH INFLOW
Total of Lines (1), (7)                 (8)       435     441      150     157      163     167      173     178      183      189     191      194      196     200      203      207     210      212      215      218
NET CASH FLOW
Line (8) leas line (6)                             44      22       38      29       19      21    (35)        28      31       35      36       37       38    (19)       43       46       88     128      130      132
Interest nnccumulated Surplus  /                   -        3        4       6        9      10       12       13      15       18      21       25       28      32       33       36       43      50       61       73
TOTAL CASH FLOW
-  Annual                                          44      25       42      35       28      31      (23)      41      46       53      57       62       66      13       76       84     131      178      191      205
- Accumulative                                    44       69      111     i46      174     205      182     223      269      322     379      441      507     520      596      680     811      989   1,180   1,385
ITT.  FINMICTAL RATE OF REIUIIN
NET COST BENEFIT STREAM
Line (3) less line (4)                           (240)   (236)      90      95       99     101       45      108     111      115     116      117      118       61     123      126     128      128    130       132
Rate of Return 18%
2/ Arrivals of 10,000 tons in year I expected to increa- 4.5% p.a. first five years, 3% p.B. next five years and 1.5% p.a. thereafter.
Average price of arrivals Rs1250/ton.  The market fec (1%) is collected on 100% of arrivals from beginning.
2/  Increase in proportion to arrivals.
3/  Includes rent from canteen and hot air dryer.
i   Increase of 3f p.a. first ten years, 1.5% p.a. thereafter; details in Appendix 7-2 and 7-3.
5/  Interest project loan 9% p.a.
Straight line depreciation.  Assumed econonic lifetine of the market about 20 years.  No residue value.
/  Consists of investment casb outlays of Rs642,000 plus stamp duty (2.25%) and appraisal fee (0.5%).
Average time for construction two years.  Additional investnent from own funds needed year 7 sad 14 to cope with incTeasing arrivals.
|  15 years repayment including two years' grace.
2/ 95% of investment excluding stamp duty and appraisal fee.
Assume 6% p.A.       October 2, 1972



ANNEX 14
Appendix 14-4
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL AHOLSSALE MARKETS PROJECT
Cash Flow Pro.ections - Itypical Market Intermediary
(in Rs '000)
Year                                      1       2                                                   92  4    6  8  9   10-20
I. INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS
Corrnission 1/                       -     19.3   19.9   20.5   21.1   21.7   22.1   22.4   22.7   23.0
Trade margin Z/                      -     25.8   26.5   27.3   28.1   28.5   28.9   29.4   29.8   30.3
TOTAL REVENUES 21               (1)          45.1   46.It  47.8   49.2   50.2   51.0   51.8   52.5   53.3
Operating Costs g             (2)   -      31.6   32.3   32.9   33.6   34.2   34.9   35.6   36.3   37.0
Profit before Interest
and Depreciations         (3)   -     13.5   14.1   14.9   15.6   16.0   16.1   16.2   16.2  1.3
Interest on project; loan 5/        2.5     5.1    5.1    4.5    3.9    3.3    2.5    1.8    o.9        -
Depreciation 6/                     4.o     4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Net profit (loss) before tax       (6.5)    4.4    5.0    6.4    7.7    8.7    9.6   10I.4   11.3   12.3
Tax on income 7/                     -      0.3    0.4    o.,    0.5    o.6    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8
Net profit (loss) after tax        (6.5)    4.1    4.6    6.o    7.2    8.1    8.9    9.7   10.5   11.5
TI. CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Investment costs 8/           (4) 79.5       -      _       _      _              _
Debt service  9/              (5)  2. g       i   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2
CASHI OJTFLOW                   (6) 82.0    36.7   43.5  4U.1   44.8   45.1   46.1   46.8   47.5   37.0
Totals of lines (2),(4),(5)
Loan received 10/             (7) 56.2       -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
CASH INFLOW
Totals of lines (1), (7)      (8) 56.2    45.1   46.4i  47.8   49.2   50.2   51.0   51.8   52.5   53.3
NE2 CASH FLOW                       (25.8)    8.4    2.9    3.7    4.4    4.8    4. 5    5.0    5.o   16.3
Line (8) less line (6)
Interest on accumulated
surplus 11/                     -                                                   0.2    0.5    o.8
TOTAL CASH FLOW
- Annual                         (25.8)    8.4    2.9    3.7    4.4    4.8    4.9    5.2    5.5   17.1
- Cumulative                     (25.8)  (17.4) (14.5) (10.8)  (6.4)  (1.6)   3.3    8.5   14.0   31.1
III.  FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
NET COST/BENEFIT STREAM            (79.5)   13.5   14.1   14.9   15.6   16.0   16.1   16.2   16.2   16.3
Line (3) less line (4)
Rate of return: 18%
1/ Average price of traded commodity Rs 1250/ton; commission fee 1.5%.
Income based on about 1000 tons handled per year.
2/ Trading margin about 4% of purchase price; income based on about 500 tons/year
handled, partly sold immediately, partly stored a few months.
3/ Increasing 3.0% per year during the first five years and 1.5% during the next
five years; stable thereafter.
W   See Appendix T-5. Increasing 2% p.a. during the first 10 years; stable
thereafter.
Intereat on project loan at 9% p.a.
h/ Straight line; assumed economic lifetime 20 years; no residual value.
7/ About 7% on profit before tax.
I/  Rs 75,000 plus stamp duty (2.25%) and appraisal fee (0.5%) Rs 2000. Average
price of lot about Rs 2500.
i/  8 years repayment including one year grace.
10/ 75% of investment cost, exclusive of stamp duty and appraisal fee.
11/ At assumed 6% p.a.
October 2, 1972






INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Typical Partioipating Commercial Bank
Projected Cashck flof Project Funds
-       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9      10      11       12      13       14      15       i6      17       18       19      20
I. CASH INFLOW
ARC Funds                                     .23  1  8i4    5,171   6.543   6,828       -       -       -        -      -        -       _        _       _        -       -        _       _        _       _
Own Funds                                      2       63    1,269   1.597   1,657
Collection of Loans from Sub-Horrowe           -      1$       705   1.513   2,629   3,641   4,349   4,659   4,9  4,455   4,1-    3,620   2,905   2,155   2,008   1,441             734
Interest fron Accumulated Surpls-                                       -        1       '53     io4     163      227    295     363      432     496      552     602      651     695      729     752      777
L                                      1,''1  2.545    -.14    9,653  11.132   3,694   4,453   4,822   4,886  4,750   4,540   4,052   3,401   2,707   2,610   2,092   1,429             729     T52      777
II.  CASH OU-'R)W
'isbursement                                1,'25  2.34-    S,4o  86,140   3,485        -        -       -        -      -        -       -        -       -
Service of ARC Loan                                   115      440      953   1,708   2,485   3,111   3,392   3,392  3,242   3,037   2,627   2,100   i,548   1,442   1,036          528      -        -       -
Cost of  wn, --,,,ds  3/                               2        - 3     164    2S2      312      312     312      312    312      312     312      312     312      312     312     312      312      312     312
Administration Crosts  4!                       66     90        96      9-;     96      48       48      48       48     48       48      48       48      24       24      24       24      24       24      24
TOTAL                                    104  2,5 4    7.054   9.353  10,551   2,845   3,471   3,752   3,752  3,6o2   3.397   2,987   2,460   1,884   1,778   1,372            864      336     336      336
III.  NET CASH INFLOW (OUTOLOW)
Annual                                           3'    39)      91      300     581     849      982   1,070   1,134  1,148   1,143   1,065        941     823      832     720      565     393      416     441
Cumulative                                      531    92)      1)    299      880   1,729   2,711   3,781   4.915  6,063   7,206   8.271   9,212  10,035  10867  11,587  12 152  12,545  12,961  13,402
1/  Each topical participating commercial bank is assc-ed to handle about 1/3 of project funds.
2/  Subloans are all at 9%.  The average term to RMCs is assumed to be 12 years including 2 years' grace; to market intermediaries, 8 years including 1 year grace.
3' At assumed .; p.a.
6' At assumed 3 man-years of senior professional ti.e    Rsl3,000 p.a. plus 100% to cover sapport staff, etc. ) during disbursement period.                                                                                      H
October 2, 1972



INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTU1AL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
ProJected 0852 Plow of Project Funds
(in Re '000)
3      Ji  4    5.   _6        iL7      8        9       10      11      12      13       14      15      16      17      18       19      20
I.  CASH INFLOW
IDA Punds                      2,240  5,129  14,072  17,716  18,583    -        -        -        -      -        -       -       -               -        -       - _     _       _
Own Funds                        229    525   1.439   1.812   1,599    -        -
Collection of Loans
from PCBs                    80    344   1.321   2,859   5,123  7,473   9,333   10,176  10,176   9,726   9,111   7,881   6,301   4.644   4,327   3.108   1,584
Interest from Accumulated
Surplus 1/                  -      -       -         4      52    7t    4C6         766   1198   1,656   2,114   2,563   2,965   3,296   3,550   3,800   3,992   4,102   4,125   4,150
TOTAL                     2,549  5,998  16,83E  22.391  25,557  7,626   9,738   10,942  11,374  11,382  11,225  10,444   9,266   7,940   7,877   6,908   5,576   4.102   4,125   4,150
II. CASH OUTFLOW
Disbursement to PCBs           2,469  5,654  15,511  19,528  20,482    -       -         -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -
Repa sment of Loan to F0O
(Tncluding InterestO  2/     64    276     826   1,740   2,786  3,320   3,320    3,320   3,320   3,320   3,320   3,320   3.320   3,320   3,320   3,320   3,320   3,320   3,320  61,060
Cost of Own Funds  1/              I    28       88     187      297    354     354      354     354     354      354     354     354     354      354     354     354     354     354      354
Administration Costs  3/         100    144     144     144       73     70      70       70 700          70       70      70      70      35       35      35      35      35       35      35
VOTAL                     2,640  ,102  16 559  21,599  23,635  3,744   3,744    3,744   3,744   3,744   3,744   3,744   3,744   3,709   3,709   3,709   3.709   3,709   3,709  61,449
III.  NET CASH INFlOW /011FrLOW)
Annual                          (91)   (104)   263       792  2,022  3,382   5,994    7,198   7.630   7,638   7,481   6,700   5,522   4,231   4,168   3,199   1,867        393     416 (57,299)
Cumulative                      (91)   (195)     68      860  2,882  6,764 12. 758  19,956 27,586  35,224 42,705  49,405 54,927 59,158  63,326 66,525 68,392  68,785  69,201  11,902
At 6. 0% interest rate.
2!  At 5.75t interest rate.
At assumed 4 man-years of senior professional time (@ Rsl8,000 p.a. plus 100, to cover support staff, etc.) during disbursement period.
October 2, 1972



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Benefits
Quantifiable Benefits
1.        Because markets differ greatly and because projects to improve
them are recent, both the methodology of assessing benefits and their
measurement are imprecise.
2.        Nevertheless, an attempt has been made here using the rough
data available to measure four benefits of the project:  (a) savings to
transporters through reduced congestion, (b) reduced cost of social
overhead, (c) reduced losses through use of heated air dryers, and (d)
reduced storage losses.
(a) Reduced Congestion
3.        For most of the markets financed under the project (representing
about 3/4 of projected arrivals to markets expected to be developed under
the project), trade is currently taking place in the crowded bazaars of
market towns. The congestion of the bazaar areas causes considerable
delays to trucks, farmers, market intermediaries and other users of the
market. The project would enable the trade to shift to new, well-laid-out
sites at the edges of towns where congestion would be minimized. The
move to the new sites would reduce the time taken for trucks, farmers and
bullock carts to deliver and remove goods, and for market intermediaries
to conclude transactions. Conditions vary between markets and good data
on each are unavailable; however, based on observations of market users,
the congested conditions in the bazaars delay each truck at least one
hour per trip compared to the proposed new market, and each bullock
cart by one-half day.
4.        Trucks would handle 1.55 million ton (30% of arrivals or 0.42
million ton plus 80% of departures or 1.13 million ton). This would
be equivalent to 221,000 truck loads (at an assumed average 7 ton per load)
and 221,000 hours' delay (at one hour per load), worth Rs 8.20 million (at
Rs 37.1 per hour -- see Appendix 15-1).
5.        Bullock carts would handle 1.27 million ton (70% of arrivals or
0.99 million ton, plus 20% of departures or 0.28 million ton), equivalent,
at 1 ton per bullock cart, to 1.27 million bullock cart loads. At one-half



ANNEX 15
Page 2
day's delay per bullock cartload this would be a total delay of 635,000
bullock cart days worth, at a loss of Rs 5 per day 1/ for driver and
bullock cart totalling Rs 3.18 million. The total benefit from reduced
delays for lorries and bullock carts would be Rs 11.4 million (for those
markets where the trade is currently in the bazaar) at the end of the
disbursement period. These estimates do not include savings to other
users of the bazaar area, not rel.ated to the agricultural wholesale trade.
(b) Reduced Cost of Social Overhead
6.        Where markets are located in crowded urban areas the cost of
providing utilities, police protection, road maintenance, health and
sanitation services are high and are expected to increase significantly
because of increasing arrivals. Transferring the wholesale trade to --w
narkets outside the bazaars would result in less overall traffic and related
municipal expenses in these already overcrowded areas. Police protection
would be cheaper for a compact fenced market yard than for dispersed facilities
in the bazaars. For an equal volume -^f marketed produce, road repairs and
sanitation requirements would be less for a well laid out market nutside of
town than for scattered marketing farilities. Studies of municipal budgets
in Pakistan indicated a cost of these social overheads per capita of US$7.40
equivalent per year. Assuming a similar level of these costs in India and
assuming they were reduced on a net basis by only 1% (i.e. by about US$0.074
equivalent per capita) by moving the wholesale market to a less congested
site, the saving would be Rs 1.26 million on the 2.35 million inhabitants of
the towns tentatively selected for development under the project (excluding
Bangalore which, at 1.7 million inhabitants, is a special case). This is
equivalent to about Rs 45,000 per market town expected under the project.
(c) Reduced Losses Through Use of Heated Air Dryers
7.        About 2% of foodgrain arrivals (which account for about 50% of
aggregate wholesale market arrivals in the State) are expected to be
affected by rain and subsequent loss. This could well increase with more
double cropping. For example, in Punjab in 1970-71 season the percentage
of arrivals affected by rain varied among markets from 20% to 40%. Rain-
affected grain is not as great a problem in Mysore as in PunJab, but an
estimate of 2% of arrivals(18,000 tons per year at full development) would
be conser'rative.  If excess moisture (grain at say 17% moisture) was reduced
to 12% by simple hot air dryers of the type proposed (Annex 6), the new
producer price of such grain could be increased by at least an average of 10%.
Allowing for the fact that part of the increased price is due to loss in weight
during drying and operating costs, the average net value of rain-affected
I/   The opportunity cost of a bullock cart and driver (generally the farmer)
is difficult to determine. The figure used here of Rs 5 per day (Rs 2.5
for the driver and Rs 2.5 for the bullock cart) is about one-half the
going Public Works Department rate for bullock cart and driver on con-
tract work.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
grain would be increased by Rs 17 per ton 1|. On an estimaLted 18,000 tons of
rain-affected grain at full development this would be equivalent to Rs 313,000.
(d) Reduced Storage Losses
8.        Storage capacity for working purposes would be provided for the
500 market intermediaries under the project in an amount of 28,000 tons 2/
of static capacity. This is assume<l to be used 60% (17,000 ton) for
working storage (e.g. combining small purchases into larger lots) and 40%
(11,000 ton) for longer-term storage. The existing shops-cum-godowns in
the crowded bazaars are dark, unhygienic and open to infestation by rodents,
insects and birds. Data on storage losses are scanty but are generally
assumed to average at least 10% over the year for storages of the type being
replaced by the project. Assuming this loss can be reduced by 3 percentage
points on goods stored in the longer-term storage by moving to godowns located
in the new markets, this would be a benefit of about Rs 410,000 3/. This does
not take into account any reduction in losses on goods in working storage.
Other Benefits
9.        An important benefit that is virtually impossible to measure is
the improvement in farmers' attitudes towards markets. Where strong RMCs
operate, farmers are assured that malpractices will be minimized and that
a strong tribunal exists for settlement of disputes. Competition among
buyers, and prices to farmers, are maximized, providing an improved
atmosphere to encourage farmers to invest and produce more. More farmers
would be encouraged to deliver to regulated markets rather than sell to
village merchants or mills. Total farmers' receipts almost certainly would
rise. Studies point to a positive supply elasticity, indicating that some
induced agricultural production would result. If farmers' prices under the
project increased overall by 1.0% (a very conservative assumption) the net
1/   An average ton of foodgrain (including groundnuts) is assumed to be worth
Rs 950 per ton (with 12% moisture content). One ton of foodgrain at 17%
moisture would be worth Rs 864 (10% assumed price discount). After dry-
ing to 12% moisture (loss of 57 kg in weight) the product (943 kg) would
be worth Rs 896 (943 kg at Rs 950 per ton). Operating costs (fuel, labor
and overhead) of Rs 15 per ton must then be deducted from the gross
benefit (of 896-864 - Rs 32) to arrive at a net benefit of Rs 17 per ton.
2/   Each shop-cum-godown on average would have 75 m2 for storage, equivalent
to 56 ton of storage (at 0.75 ton per m2).
3/   Reduction in loss by 3 percentage points (from 10% in existing storages
to 7% in the new shops-cum-godowns) on 11,000 ton. This is equal to a
saving of 330 ton of produce at an average vRlue of R 1,250 or
Rs 412,000 (say Rs 410,000).



ANNEX 15
Page 4
value of additional production induced thereby would be about Rs 4.8 1/ mil-
lion at full development. This would increase the project's economic rate
of return by about 6 percentage points (to 21%).
10.       The project would facilitate an improved system of grades and
standards which would encourage the delivery of better quality products
and would make improved market intelligence possible.
11.       The project would also permit the use of sale by tender (Annex 2)
with resulting time savings to market-users.
12.       Timely and accurate price information from different markets
would enable the market mechanism to function better. Farmers would be
better able to choose the best market and form (e.g., shelled or unshelled
groundnuts) to sell their products, and market intermediaries would be in
a better position to decide where and when to buy, sell, or store. Because
participants in the market chain would be able to make better decisions,
the nation's total cost of transport, processing, handling and storage
would thereby be reduced.
13.       The new markets would become centers for disseminating new
information and ideas on farm matters. In addition, the clean and modern
yards would have a demonstration effect on other community activity.
B. Costs
14.      '.2vil works and equipment, including an overall physical
contingency of 6.5%, would come to Rs 75.2 million (details in Annex 8).
Land was costed at its opportunity value, at Rs 1,250 per ha per year,
for unirrigated land on the outskirts of market towns.
15.       Most of the operating costs of RMCs are already being incurred
with or without the project. However, additional costs for SMD (the
costs of engineers, architects and an economic adviser required under the
project) and for ARC and PCBs (for subloan appraisal and administration)
would be incurred and are included in the cost stream.
C. Rate of Return
16.       B&aed on the above estimates of benefits and costs, the economic
rate of return to the project would be about 15% (Appendix 15-2).
1/   Assuming that one-half of the value of incremental production is addi-
tion to net income, and supply elasticity is 0.4%.
November 24, 1972



ANNEX 15
Appendix 15-1
INDIA
MYSORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT
Operating Characteristics of Truck Used in Hauling Agricultural Produce
Initial cost of truck                     Rs 72,000
Average load                                       7 tons
Annual output (distance)                      61,600 km
Useful life of vehicle                         9-1/2 years
Normal running speed                              40 km/hr
Hours per year (travelling)
Variable Cost (Paise)- per km)
Maintenance and tires and tubes              15.1
Fuel                                         12.1
27.2
Rs
Variable cost per hour (assuming
40 km/hr)                                    10.9
Calculation of Net Value of Incremental
Hour                                               Rs
Revenue (40 km at Rs 1.20)                   48.0
Variable costs (from above)                  10.9
TOTAL                                  37.1
/1   From IDA-Commissioned 1970 consultant's study, with costs
updated to July 1972 by Bank staff. Costs represent
estimates of economic costs.
/2   One Paise - Rs 0.01.
November 24, 1972



INDIA
MESORE AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE M TS PROJ1C
Economic Rate of Return Calculrtions
YIAR       1       2       3        4      5       6       7        a       9       10      11      12      13      14      15      16       .7      i8      19      20      21       2: .3
1,  SUZ  1/                                                                              _        -                _-                              -       --                                                                                -
Civil ibrBn, Isatning & foject waluation          3,725   7,557  10.555  22,59o  02,53 9      -           . 1,000   3,200   3,700   3,70O     -       -        -  1,000   3,200   3,7900   3,700       -       -
Land Rest 2/                                        200     05?    370      370    301      300     300    300    300       300     300     300     300    300      300    300       300     300     300     300     300       300      300
Operating Cost lnereental to FroJ..t:
1DO                                            150     360    36C      367    367    200       100     100     100     100     100     100    100      100     100    100       100     100     100     100     100       100      100
ARC & PFC                                      480     790      93     580    360    210       210     210    210      210     210     210     210    110      117    120     110       113      110     110    110       113      ill
TOTAL                                             4,555   5.96G  2 .375  23,527  23,600     710     610   1,610   3,810   4,310   4,310     610     61o     510   1,510   3,710   4,210   4,210      510     510     510       510      510
II. BENEFITS
Lorry B, 01100k-cart -ise Savings flue to
B.meed Congestion                                -       -     900   4,0DC   -.t00  11,375  11,390  12,400  12,950  13,330  13,740  14,150  14,570  14,800  15,000  15,200  15,450  15,70C  15,900  16,100  16,400   16,600   16,800
Savings in  -nicpal 3ndgets                                  -     100     45v    957   1,260   1,26o      60   1,260    ,260o  1,260 1   ,26o   1,260   1,26o   1,26o   1,260   1,260   1,260   1,260   1,26o   1,26o    1,260    1,26o
Reduced Storage -os-en                                        -      Il     150    23C      400    4-10    410        0     410     410     410     410      410     4 410    41     410     4010    0io      410     41       410      410
Lncreased VBae of Into through
,h nfReatedtlclryers                                  -       -      10     noC    210    310       310     310     310    310      310     310     310     310      310     310     310     310     310      310    310       310      310
70-AL                                                 _           1,020   4,717   8,940  13,355  13,570  14,380  14,930  15,310  15,720  16,130  16,550  16,780  16,980  17,180  17,430  17,680  17,880  18,080 18,380    18,580   18,780
Ill.  MIT BERE-T S-.EA                                 (4,555) (8,960)(19,285)(19,11C,(14,660) 12,645  13,260  12,770  11,100  11,000  n,410  15,520  15,940  16,270  15,470  13,470  13,220  13,470  17,370  17,570 17,870    18,070   18,270
Rate of Ratorn  15%
S 5e Adme 7.
2/ At as_d epPe.mity most of 5. 1250 per ha.
October 2, 1972



F  7O                           To AorongJobod lXr                 , P        h   C H I N A
INDIA                                                                                        6 KiSTAN
T. N-ndo 
MYSORE
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT   <                                                                                                 I
A     Mwak ts                                                      To.hlpr  t 
o-   Dist ict BiedquARte r
o     Other Important Toeno
-        Noational Highways
- -District Boundares
-   -    State BoundariEs
International Boundares                                           0                     SO               To H,de.,bod
To Kollhopo,   StiroiX 'A '                                             '        g      hhpu                        7     > 
A  Sloonoroon ~~~    \       _.
t  9           \                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 B\- = oor~            Soodono,wS  
..r~ ~~~~~~~~~~.g~
Maongo                  f Sops,                        jS                     S                                                                           if' j 
T. GT   Gortakot
M6 .......                                                                                                                                L     Et             L Gyg /, ) / J /,KL  . GM  \  Et O
To   Vengurlo  I  { - \g ;}v R LE ~~~~B A i t H UNPtRY A
Mormugoo ^¢ B;p WD t R A                                              R                                                                                   1,30oGntkl  
KILOMETERS
°4       '0                                                               15 'o   O o,o o _              A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
T ;                                                                                                 el                                 MIL/V  ' Bo ES
=                                                        Ch-,                                 A                             T.C Hyd.,.b.d, st \  raP j(  /     W 
\   T Canozore\  l /  Sw§   V                  X       )     E          X              >V2'
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A pp v tt ddote  _zrpr\mrlnG A 
2 t ffi t9dbrsoDt .t ~~~~~~~~~~tUKr    t cAtt lt  r\ _J_
'adluztttJt tsdI/wh                         \(                             7fE                         <          i        t    
-  j                                   t      r ottmnoo 
\     \           Tc  oo:men                                            7t                          siiP



