CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Project Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Project Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition, inter alia, that ARC agree to undertake such obligations towards
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Mysore, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Mysore), Mysore
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the Credit under Category I will be made
available to ARC, and ARC in turn will make the said proceeds available to the
Participating Commercial Banks (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement)
under a Refinance Agreement to be entered into between ARC and each
Participating Commercial Bank; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall carry out Part A of the Project, or cause said Part
to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
financial, administrative, engineering and town planning practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Borrower under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including,
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement,
as such Schedule may be modified from time to time with the agreement of the
Association.
(b)   ARC shall enter into a refinance agreement with each PCB under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, those set forth
in Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time with the agreement of the Association.
(c)   ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and under each Refinance Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any Refinance Agreement or any provision thereof included in
Schedule 4 or 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall
take all necessary steps to ensure that all goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category I shall be
procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category
I to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. ARC: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
under Category I, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without


﻿5
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the
Association's representatives or cause them to be enabled to examine Part A of
the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association or cause the Association
to be furnished all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
under Category I and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC shall: (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in
respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project: (ii) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARC and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ARC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ARC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the obligations of ARC under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the respective obligations of ARC and each PCB tinder each
Refinance Agreement the administration, operations and financial condition of ARC
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ARC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by ARC and each PCB
of their respective obligations under each Refinance Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all properties and its records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the datc on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and by each PCB under each
Refinance Agreement, and all interest and charges thereon, shall
have been repaid.


﻿7
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿8
Cable address:
AGROFINANS
Bombay
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as ARC shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ Eric Gonsalves
Authorized Representatie


