CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Mysore, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Mysore), Mysore
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter called ARC), ARC has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(D)   By a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
-       Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the Credit under Category I will be made
available to ARC and ARC in turn will make the said proceeds available to the
Participating Commercial Banks (as hereinafter defined) under a Refinance
Agreement to be entered into between ARC and each Participating Commercial
Bank; and
(E)   WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969. with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof


﻿4
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Mysore" means the State of Mysore, a state of India, or any successor
thereof.
(b)   "ARC"    means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and existing under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "PCB" means a Participating Commercial Bank, or any successor
thereof.
(d)   "Participating Commercial Bank" means any scheduled bank organized
under the laws of India and participating in the financing of Part A of the Project.
(e)   "SMD" means the Mysore State Agricultural Marketing Department.
(f)   "Act" means the Mysore Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation)
Act of 1966 as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g)   "Market Committee" means a Market Conmittee established pursuant
to the provisions of the Act.
(h)   "SMB" means the Mysore State Agricultural Marketing Board provided
for under the Act.
(i)   "market intermediary" means a wholesaler, wholesale-cum-commission
agent, broker, commission agent, trader, cooperative, corporate or statutory body,


﻿5
or other person licensed by a Market Committee to operate within a market
included under Part A of the Project.
(j)   "PWD" means the Mysore Public Works Department.
(k)   "TPD" means the Mysore Town Planning Department.
(1)   "Mysore Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and Mysore, and all schedules thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and ARC, and all schedules thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01 () of this A. eement,
and all schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(o)   "Refinance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between ARC and each PCB pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and
all schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(p)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PCB
to a Market Committee or market intermediary for purposes of carrying out Part
A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(q)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost


﻿6
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit under Category I shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 17IX) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1983 and ending October 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound financial, administrative, engineering and town planning practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿7
(b)   In order to assist Mysore in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to Mysore the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Credit under Category II.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Category
I to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be modified from time to time with the agreement of the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof included in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC to enter into a refinance
agreement with each PCB     under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be modified from time to time with the agreement of the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC and each PCB to perform their
respective obligations under each Refinance Agreement in accordance with the
provisions therein set forth and to exercise their respective rights under such
agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARC and each PCB to perform such
obligations, shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, assigning, abrogating or waiving any Refinance Agreement or any
provision thereof included in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Mysore to perform
all of its obligations under the Mysore Agreement; and (ii) ARC to perform all
of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
the performance of any such obligations of Mysore or ARC.


﻿8
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to bc made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC and each PCB to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC and each PCB to: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account
of the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months and in the case
of each PCB six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning their accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Mysore of its obligations under the Mysore


﻿9
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the performance by ARC and each PCB of
their respective obligations under each Refinance Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of ARC and each PCB and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ARC and each
PCB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by Mysore of its obligations tinder the Mysore
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the performance by ARC and each PCB
of their respective obligations under each Refinance Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Mysore Agreement,
the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and each Refinance
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable inimediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration suci-
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  Mysore shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Mysore Agreement.
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or under any Refinance
Agreement.
(c)   Any PCB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
any Refinance Agreement.
(d)   ARC or any PCB shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or
any PCB or by others whereby any of the property of ARC or any PCB shall
or may be distributed among its creditors.


﻿(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, any PCB or SMD
or for the suspension of its operations.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Mysore will be able to perform its obligations under the Mysore
Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or (iii) ARC or any PCB will be
able to perform its obligations under any Refinance Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the
defaulting party.
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Mysore Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of Mysore and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(b)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has bcon duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿12
(d)   Mysore has made available the personnel referred to in Section 2.06
of the Mysore Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Mysore Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Mysore, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of Mysore in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ARC in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 7, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.05 and
4.02(a) of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section
6.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraph (b) of Section 6.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s!/ Eric Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ I.P.M. Cargill       Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Sub-loans                       7,920,000           80% of total
disbursed                                           expenditures
II.   Training and                       80,000           60% of total
evaluation                                          expenditures
TOTAL                8,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of
any country other than the Borrower,
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by


﻿15
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   any amounts included in Sub-loans to finance the purchase of land.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower,
to any other Category; and
(b)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in Category I is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Asso,:ation may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's program     to develop regulated
agricultural wholesale markets throughout the territories of the Borrower, and
consists of the following:
Part A
The development and operation by SMD, Market Committees and market
intermediaries of regulated agricultural wholesale markets in Mysore, including
construction and provision of, inter alia, required surveys and land preparation,
access roads, auction platforms, fencing, buildings, traders' shops-cum-godowns,
internal roadways and parking areas, utilities and equipment.
Part B
The training of (i) senior staff of SMD; (ii) market secretaries of Market
Committees; and (iii) agricultural produce graders.
Part C
An economic evaluation of a sample (not less than six) of the markets
included under Part A of the Project, to determine the economic impact of the
Project and the changing pattern of marketing of agricultural products in Mysore.
The development of the markets included under the Project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Each market yard to be financed under Part A of the Project shall be designed
according to its site requirements and commercial needs. On behalf of Market
Committees, SMD shall prepare or cause to be prepared detailed drawings,
specifications, tender documents and construction contracts and shall supervise or
cause to be supervised construction works.
2.    After approval by the PCB concerned and ARC, PWD shall under the general
supervision of SMD call for bids through public tender following established
procedures for governmental procurement in Mysore. After appropriate bid
evaluation, PWD shall award contracts for construction.
3.    Payments to successful bidders shall be approved by the appropriate engineer
of PWD.
4.    Designs and specifications of facilities for market intermediaries shall be
approved by Market Committees and SMD.
5.    Contracts for construction shall be furnished to the PCB concerned.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
To ARC from the Borrower
(a)  Term: 15 years, including a grace period of up to three years;
(b)   Repayment terms: in annual installments;
(c)   Interest rate: 6% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding,
with 1/4% rebate for prompt repayment of principal and interest; and
(d)   Exchange risk: for the account of the Borrower.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Refinance Agreements
1.   Undertaking to carry out Project
Each PCB shall undertake to carry out that portion of Part A of the Project
for which it is required to make funds available under the Project, or cause said
portion to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound financial, administrative, engineering and town planning practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
2.   Refinance of Sub-loans
(a)   Amount: ARC shall refinance up to 82% of expenditures by each PCB
for Sub-loans;
(b)   Repayment terms: to coincide, more or less, with expected repayments
of Sub-loans; provided, however, that prepayment of Sub-loans shall require
proportionate prepayment of amounts refinanced;
(c)   Interest rate: 6-1/2%  per annum   on amounts withdnwn and
outstanding.
3.    Terms of Sub-loans - Market Committees
(a)   Amount: PCBs shall finance up to and not more than 95% of the
total investment cost of Market Committees.
(b)   Repayment terms: up to 15 years including 2, and exceptionally up
to 3, years of grace;
(c)   Interest rate: 9% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding;
(d)   Security: first lien on property or assets financed or other satisfactory
security.
4.    Terms of Sub-loans - Market Intermediaries
(a)   Amount: PCBs shall finance up to 75% of the total investment cost
of market intermediaries, exclusive of cost of land;


﻿20
(b)   Repayment terms: up to 9 years including I year of grace;
(c)   Interest rate: 9% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding;
(d)   Security: first lien on property or assets financed or other satisfactory
security.
5.    Restrictions - Market Committees
Except as the Borrower, ARC and the Association shall otherwise agree, each
PCB shall undertake to restrict, during the period any part of a Sub-loan to a
Market Committee is outstanding, and subject to the requirements of the Act,
the use by such Market Committee of its available funds as follows:
(i)         to the Market Committee's contributions to the SMB and SMD
as prescribed under Chapter VIl of the Act;
(ii)       to   the   Market   Committee's    ordinary  operating  and
administration expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes
(if any), and debt service requirements; and
(iii)       only after the items in (i) and (ii) above have been paid or
provided for, to development purposes, including expansion of
market facilities and building of farm-to-market feeder roads.
6.    Appraisal of Sub-loans
In accordance with sound banking practice, each PCB shall carry out or cause
to be carried out a detailed appraisal for each Sub-loan, either by its own staff
or by consultants approved by ARC, in order to ensure, inter alia, in the case
of Market Committee beneficiaries, that the Market Committee's proposed
investment will result in an efficient and complete functioning market yard, and
in the case of market intermediary beneficiaries, that the market intermediary will
have a valid license, that its proposed plans have been approved by the Market
Committee concerned and the SMD, and that it has the financial capacity to repay
the Sub-loan.
7.    Insurance
(a)   Each PCB undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured, or make or
cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by ARC against


﻿21
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Each PCB shall cause each Market Committee and market intermediary
beneficiary of a Sub-loan to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other adequate provision for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound practice.
8.    Use of Proceeds
Except as ARC and the Association may otherwise agree, each PCB shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
it by ARC to be used exclusively for the Project.
9.    Plans, Specifications, etc.
Each PCB shall furnish or cause to be furnished to ARC and the Association,
upon request, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as ARC and the Association shall
reasonably request.
10.  Records, Financial (ovenants
(a)   Each PCB: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project: (ii) shall enable ARC's and the
Association's representatives, or cause them to be enabled, to inspect the goods
financed out of such proceeds and relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to ARC and the Association or cause ARC and the Association to be
furnished all such information as ARC and the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   Each PCB shall, and shall cause each Market Committee and market
intermediary beneficiary of a Sub-loan to, maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿22
(c)   Each PCB shall: (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in respect
of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project; (ii) have such accounts
audited, each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to ARC
and the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year; and (iv) furnish to ARC and the Association such other information
concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as ARC
and the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(d)   Each PCB shall cause each Market Committee beneficiary of a Sub-loan,
during the period any part of a Sub-loan for such beneficiary remains outstanding,
to: (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed
and received on account of the Project; (ii) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, 'in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to ARC; (iii) furnish to the
PCB and ARC, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the PCB, ARC and the As ociation shall have
reasonably requested, including a certification that to the best of the auditors'
knowledge, the proceeds of the Sub-loan have been expended for purposes of the
Project; and (iv) furnish to the PCB, ARC and the Association such other
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the PCB, ARC and the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
11.   Procurement
Except as Mysore, ARC and the Association shall otherwise agree, each PCB
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that all goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category I shall be procured in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
12.   Management and Operations
Each PCB shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business and
financial practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate number; and
(b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,


﻿23
privileges and franchise: which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business
or in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
13.   Consultation, Information and Inspection
(a)   Each PCB shall cooperate fully with ARC and the Association to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each PCB shall,
from time to time, at the request of ARC and the Association, exchange views
with ARC and the Association through its representatives with regard to the
performance of its obligations under the Refinance Agreement, its administration,
operations and financial condition, and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
(b)   Each PCB shall promptly inform ARC and the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by it of its obligations under
its Refinance Agreement.
(c)   Each PCB shall enable ARC's and the Association's representatives to
inspect all properties and its records and documents relevant to the Project.


