CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Mysore Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale
Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
STATE OF MYSORE
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 378 IN
Mysore Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Wholesale
Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
STATE OF MYSORE
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿1
MYSORE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
STATE OF MYSORE, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Mysore).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition inter alia that Mysore agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter called ARC), ARC has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the Credit under Category I will be made
available to ARC, and ARC in turn will make the said proceeds available to the
Participating Commercial Banks (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement)
under a Refinance Agreement to be entered into between ARC and each
Participating Commercial Bank;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available to Mysore the proceeds of the
Credit under Category II; and
WHEREAS Mysore, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Mysore shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and town planning practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Mysore shall
take all necessary steps to ensure that all goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category I shall be
procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Mysore undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured, or
make, or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Mysore shall cause each Market Committee and market intermediary
beneficiary of a Sub-loan to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Mysore shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Mysore shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, upon request, the plans, specifications, contract documents and


﻿5
construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modificiations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Mysore: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives, or cause
them to be enabled, to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Mysore shall cause Market Committee beneficiaries of Sub-loans (i)
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition; and (ii) to
furnish to the Association and each PCB such information concerning such accounts
and financial statements as the Association and each PCB, respectively, shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) Mysore shall, through the SMD, provide all necessary
assistance to Market Committees in the preparation of drawings and specifications
to support applications for Sub-loans, the preparation of tender documents, calling
for tenders, the analysis of bids, and the supervision of construction.
(b)   Mysore shall cause its PWD and TPD to provide all necessary assistance
to SMD in Project planning and supervision.
Section. 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Mysore shall,
until the Closing Date, make available to SMD, on a full time basis for purposes
of the Project, the services of the following qualified specialists: (i) an engineer,
and (ii) an architect experienced in designing layouts and structures of the sort
proposed to be developed under Part A      of the Project, and (iii) an economist,
all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Mysore shall
set, maintain and enforce uniform market fees for all markets in Mysore regulated
under the Act and included in the Project, of not less than 1% of the value of
the agricultural produce marketed.


﻿I
6
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Mysore shall
during each of the first five years after the Effective Date:
(a)   cause at least one senior staff member of the SMD to attend a one-year
course in marketing at the institute operated by the Borrower's Directorate of
Marketing and Inspection at Nagpur, or other suitable institution;
(b)   cause not less than ten market secretaries to attend the appropriate
training course for market secretaries provided by the Borrower or other suitable
institution; and
(c)   cause not less than 15 agricultural produce graders to attend the
appropriate training course for such graders provided by the Borrower or other
suitable institution.
Section 2.09. Mysore shall, within six months after the Effective Date, cause
SMD to enter into a contract with an institution acceptable to the Association,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to assist Mysore in
carrying out Part C of the Project.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Mysore shall
restrict, during the period any part of a Sub-loan to a Market Committee is
outstanding, and subject to the requirements of the Act, the use by such Market
Committee of its available funds as follows:
(i)         to the Market Committee's contributions to the SMB and SMD
as prescribed under Chapter VIII of the Act;
(ii)        to   the   Market    Committee's    ordinary   operating   and
administration expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes
(if any), and debt service requirements; and
(iii)       only after the items in (i) and (ii) above have been paid or
provided for, to development purposes, including expansion of
market facilities and building of farm-to-market feeder roads.
Section 2.11. Mysore shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) ARC to perform all
of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and (ii) ARC and each PCB to perform all of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and each Refinance Agreement, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with the performance of any such
obligations of ARC or any PCB.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. The Association and Mysore shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and Mysore shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Association and Mysore shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by any party to the
Project Agreement or any Refinance Agreement, of its obligations thereunder.
Section 3.03. Mysore shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all properties and records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Mysore of this event.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
Mysore thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Project Agreement
terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿8
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Mysore:
The Development Commissioner and
Special Secretary to Government
for Agricultural Production
and Planning
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore
Cable address:
Vikas
Bangalore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Mysore may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government of Mysore
or such other person or persons as Mysore shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Mysore shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Mysore, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Mysore pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.


﻿I
9
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
STATE OF MYSORE
By /s/ Eric Gonsalves
Authorized Representative


