Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T 7533-TON
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT FOR SDR 4.7 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$5.85 MILLION)
TO
THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
FOR A
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 7, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 16, 2002)
Currency Unit      =   Tongan Pa'anga
I Pa'anga          =   US$0.50
US$1.00            =   TOP 2.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERM         - Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management
CHARM        - Comprehensive Hazard and Risk Management (a SOPAC program)
CPAR         - Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ           - Consultant's Qualifications
DMU          - Disaster Management Unit (product of a SOPAC program)
ERM          - Emergency and Risk Management
FMR          - Financial Monitoring Report
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GOT          - Government of the Kingdom of Tonga
lAs          - Implementing Agencies
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IDA          - International Development Association
MOW          - Ministry of Works
MLSNR        - Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
NCB          - National Competitive Bidding
NDMO         - National Disaster Management Office
NGO          - Non-government Organization
NRBT         - National Reserve Bank of Tonga
OCOS         - Office of Chief of Staff of Tropical Cyclone Waka Recovery
PCC          - Project Coordination Committee
PCR          - Project Completion Report
PMO          - Prime Minister's Office
PMU          - Project Management Unit
POM          - Project Operational Manual
PPAR         - Project Performance Audit Report
QBS          - Quality-Based Selection of consultant firms
QCBS         - Quality and Cost-based Selection of consultant firms
SDR          - Special Drawing Rights
SOPAC        - South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission
TANGO        - Tongan Association of Non-Governmental Organizations
TD           - Treasury Department
TOP          - Tongan Pa'anga currency
USD          - United States of America Dollar currency
VDMC         - Vava'u Disaster Management Committee
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Regional Vice President             .   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                    :   Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Director                        J *itendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager           William D.O. Paterson, EASTR



THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR A PROPOSED
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Contents
I. COUNTRY BACKGROUND .......................1
II. THE CYCLONE DISASTER .1
The Cyclone Damage Estimates .I
Response to the Cyclone Emergency                          .2
Response Gap and the Response by IDA                        .2
Lessons Learned                                   .2
Rationale for IDA Involvement                           .3
MII. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                    .3
Project Objectives                                .3
Project Description                                .3
Project Cost and Financing                            .5
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                            .6
Project Organizing and Management                          .6
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                 .7
Retroactive Financing                               .8
Project Sustainability                              .8
Environmental and Social Aspects                          .9
Participatory Approach                              .9
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .10
Project Benefits .10
Project Risks .10
Agreed Actions .10
Appendix I - Housing Component .12
Appendix 2 - Evaluation of Building Practices .17
Appendix 3 - Emergency and Risk Management Component .27
Appendix 4 - Project Costs .33
Appendix 5 - Financial Management Assessment .36
Appendix 6   - Procurement Capacity Assessment and Implementation Arrangements .40
Appendix 7   - Environmental and Social Guidelines .46
Appendix 8   - Key Implementation Activities and Monitoring Indicators .53






THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT FOR A
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.    The archipelago of the Kingdom of Tonga comprises 170 islands in three main island
groups extending over 700 km in the South Pacific, and is prone to cyclones typically up to
Force 4 (Cyclone Category C). The population of 98,000 is primarily Polynesian, with a literacy
rate close to 99 per cent and a low incidence of poverty. The fiscal situation in the country is
generally deteriorating, and real GDP growth, after strengthening in 1999/00 to 6 percent, is
estimated to have slowed to about 3 percent in 2000/01 (largely due to lower agricultural
production). GDP is dominated by the services sector with a 60 per cent contribution, while
agriculture and industry contribute 30% and 10% respectively. The country must import a high
proportion of its food, and relies on tourism for hard currency earnings. Tonga remains
dependent on sizable external aid and remittances from Tongan communities overseas to offset
its trade deficit. The government is starting to emphasize the development of the private sector,
especially the encouragement of investment, and is committing increased funds for health and
education. Tonga has a reasonable basic infrastructure and well-developed social services.
II. THE CYCLONE DISASTER
The Cyclone Damage Estimates
2.    Tropical Cyclone Waka struck the Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu island group late on
December 30, 2001, and the Vava'u island group on December 31, 2001, with maximum
sustained winds at 100 knots and gusts to 140 knots (200 km/h), with moderate rainfall. The
cyclone caused substantial damage to buildings, trees, food and cash crops, and power, but there
were no fatalities or major injuries and negligible damage to transport infrastructure or land. The
damage was widespread and variable, and was worst in the Vava'u and Niuafo'ou islands, and
moderate on the Niuatoputapu and Ha'apai islands. The affected population totaled about 26,500
persons or 4,600 households.
3.    The effects of the cyclone were most evident on weak structures (mainly old houses and
poorly built community buildings) and roofs, and on crops and trees. On Vava'u sixty percent of
buildings were damaged, including about twenty percent completely demolished or severely
damaged. Many rain water collection systems were damaged or destroyed, but water tanks were
largely undamaged. The issues that required immediate attention included school repairs,
replanting of crops, repairs to private buildings, and providing domestic water supply
connections.



-2 -
4.    The government's report on damage assessment in January 2002 estimated losses of TOP
104.4 million (USD 48 m), and a relief and rehabilitation program of TOP 79.5 m (USD 36 m).
The damage estimates included 1500 homes (TOP 70 m); 25 schools (TOP 7.4 m); agriculture
and fisheries (TOP 24 m); water supply, power, telecommunications and government property,
including minor damage to wharves and jetties (TOP 3.0 m). Subsequent detailed assessments
confirmed the physical extent of damage, and assessed the core needs for the recovery program
to comprise 512 homes (TOP 8 m), schools (TOP 1.5 million), and agriculture and fishing (TOP
0.1 Im), with other needs being met by local communities.
Response to the Cyclone Emergency
5.    Within the first few days after the cyclone, the Australian and New Zealand Governments
provided immediate relief assistance with aerial survey, damage assessment, and the delivery of
tents, covers, water-purification tablets and emergency supplies. The Canada Fund redirected
aid to school repairs which are being managed by TANGO, the national association of NGOs.
Domestically, the Governor of Vava'u reacted proactively in working with communities to
provide shelter, and organizing returning teachers to partially restore schools. On January 20,
the Government formed a special task force under Chief of Staff for Recovery from Cyclone
Waka, comprising three senior officials, and this office (OCOS) has worked with the Vava'u
Disaster Management Committee (VDMC) to direct the recovery operations and manage donor
funds. A recovery program was presented to a meeting of donors on January 24, 2002.
Response Gap and the Response by IDA
6.    Bi-lateral donors, such as Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom and Canada Fund,
are meeting all requirements for school repairs, with an amount totaling about TOP 1 million
(USD 0.5 million). France and Europe have provided smaller amounts for schools and relief
supplies, and others for agriculture. In housing, a total of 512 houses were destroyed and require
replacement, and about 1,000 more were substantially damaged. About 60-80 houses have been
pledged by Caritas (30) and Australia (30-50), leaving a gap of 430-450 houses, with an
estimated cost of about TOP 7 million for low-cost cyclone-resistant units. Assistance is also
requested for strengthening the national emergency and risk management framework. Following
the donors' meeting on January 25, 2002, the Government requested IDA assistance on housing
and emergency and risk management on March 13, and the preparation and appraisal of an IDA
Credit covering about 400 house units was conducted from April 8 to 16, 2002.
Lessons Learned
7.    Relevant lessons can be drawn from international and Bank experience in disaster
management, from other projects in the Pacific Islands, and from the few previous operations in
Tonga (e.g., Second Tongan Development Bank Project). First, for housing assistance, the aim
should be to provide most assistance to the poor who have no access to insurance; to bring
existing good sector policies and practices to bear upon housing reconstruction; and to encourage
mitigation measures that reduce future impacts. Second, the experience with developing a risk
management strategy in Samoa has shown the importance of adopting a comprehensive approach
to risk assessment, involving active community participation in formulating and agreeing on
mitigation plans, and of upgrading information technology. The Samoa project has also shown



-3-
the benefits of effective project management in a dedicated unit, and the positive influence that
Bank procurement procedures can have on national procurement procedures.Third, the
management of funds and small loans warrants caution and strong fiduciary provisions because
these were not managed well by the Tongan Development Bank under previous assistance.
Finally, an emergency lending operation should not aim to address long-term policy issues or
sector reforms but may support them to the extent that is practical.
Rationale For IDA Involvement
8.    The financing gap in the recovery efforts is beyond the financial capacity of the
Government at this time, when international reserves are low and the current account deficit is
widening. IDA support would be directly benefiting very poor households who constitute the
great majority of those impacted by the cyclone. Reducing the vulnerability of small island states
to economic and physical shocks is a focus of the Bank's Pacific regional strategy. IDA can
provide support from international experience in emergency management processes (Disaster
Management Facility), a successful coastal infrastructure risk management activity in Samoa, the
Climate Change Adaptation initiative, and work on catastrophe insurance in Vanuatu.
Successful models for provision of emergency housing and for building a risk management
strategy are available in this Bank work and can be augmented through regional partners such as
SOPAC.
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
9.    The main objective is to assist in recovering the standard of living of the population
affected by the cyclone through the rehabilitation of the social infrastructure in selected affected
areas and to improve its resilience to natural hazards.
10.   The second objective is to strengthen and upgrade the emergency and risk management
capacity of the country through the improvement of its nationwide resilience to natural hazards,
including the effects of climate change.
Project Description
11.   The project would assist recovery of social infrastructure in the affected area, through
rapid replacement of destroyed or damaged housing, and over three years strengthen the national
capacity for emergency and risk management. The project components are as follows:
A.    Social Infrastructure Recovery (USD 4.2 m, 67% of total costs)
A. I  Replacement Housing (US$3.4 million, 54% of total costs):  Construction and
supervision of about 400 units of low-cost cyclone-resistant housing in the Vava'u group,
and Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu islands, to replace completely damaged houses of
households with inadequate financial capacity to rebuild.



- 4 -
A.2  4ssisted Reconstruction of Community Buildings (US$0.26 million, 4% of total project
costs): Assistance to community-based works for reconstruction or retrofitting of community
buildings for hazard-resistance in about 40 villages of Vava'u, including Niuafo'ou and
Niuatoputapu islands through the provision of grants. The acceptance of sub-projects and
certification of works would be implemented by the VDMC, with the guidance of a technical
specialist. The payment of the grants would be administered by the PMU upon certification
by the VDMC, and audited on statements of expenditure. It is anticipated that the grants
would be approximately equal in size, with variation in exceptional cases at the discretion of
the VDMC.
A.3 Retrofitting of Existing Houses and Enterprises (US$0.53 million, 8% of total project
cost):  Assistance to community-based works for voluntary retrofitting and upgrading the
natural hazard resistance of residential and small-to-medium enterprise buildings nationwide,
through the provision of grants of up to TOP 5,000 to individuals or firms in the form of a
1:1 subsidy for approved treatments. The acceptance of sub-projects and certification of
works would be implemented under a contract with a firm or an NGO, with the guidance of a
technical specialist (same as in A.2). The payment of the grants would be administered by
the PMU upon certification by the implementing entity, and audited on statements of
expenditure.
B.    Emergency and Risk Management Capacity-Building (USD 1.8 m, 29%     of
project cost)
B.1 Strengthening of Emergency and Risk Management Processes (US$0.80 million, 13%
of total project cost): Reduction of vulnerability to disasters through improved effectiveness
of all phases of emergency management at national and local levels, through advisory
services and community training, with focus on (i) institutional arrangements and financial
resource options for risk reduction, readiness, response and recovery phases; (ii) training and
equipment for improved readiness and response; and (iii) A public information and education
program on proactively reducing risks to natural hazards, and on disaster preparedness.
B.2 Land and Risk Information (US$0.80 million, 13% of total project cost):
Establishment of updated high-resolution land and geographic information system for
support of risk management and for many sectoral applications, including: (i) aerial
photography and mapping of all main island groups; (ii) establishment of geographic
information system for national use; and (iii) development and implementation of a national
risk mitigation strategy for natural hazards and climate change effects, including risk
assessment for key hazards in vulnerable areas.
B.3 Improvement of Building Standards (US$0.20 million, 3% of total project cost):
Implementation and dissemination of improved building code and controls, and training of
building industry, through advisory services, training and workshops.
C. Project Management (USD 0.27 m, 4% of project cost):
C.J Project Management (US$0.27 million, 4% of total project cost): Management and
coordination of project activities, procurement, financial management and accounting,



monitoring of environmental and social safeguards requirements, auditing of project
accounts, monitoring and reporting, etc.
12.   In parallel to the project, other housing support is being provided by two sources under
separate financing and implementation arrangements, i.e.: (i) Caritas Oceania (an NGO liaising
through the Catholic Church of Tonga) - 30 houses, selected on the basis of high social risk and
poverty, and involving owner or community contributions in kind; and (ii) the Australian
Government - about 30-50 houses. The total number of houses committed, therefore is 460-480,
leaving 32-52 houses requiring finance. The project would finance additional houses if savings
are realized through procurement or other parts of the Project. All houses will be of standard
design based on the low-cost cyclone-resistant house model built by MOW after the 1982
Cyclone Isaac, comprising a single room of about 35 sq. m area (4.9 m by 7.3 m). The Project
provides for updating of the design to conform with current best practice, and for fast
implementation of the housing component by December 2002 in view of the extent of
homelessness and the onset of the next wet and cyclone season in November. A detailed
description of the project components, including technical background on the building industry,
is presented in Appendices I to 3 of this Technical Annex.
Project Cost and Financing
13.    The total baseline project costs are estimated at USD 6.31 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of USD 5.19 million equivalent (83%) and taxes and duties
estimated at about USD 0.17 million (2.6%). The Government has provided special tax
exemption for most recovery activities, including all of the project activities except consultant
services'. This total cost comprises: (i) civil works (housing construction) for USD 4.11 million
equivalent (65%); (ii) goods (aerial survey and mapping, and information technology) for USD
0.42 million equivalent (7%); (iii) consulting services for USD 1.68 million (27%); (iv)
training, workshops and incremental operating costs for USD 0.10 million equivalent (1%). A
summary of project costs by component is presented in Table 1, and detailed costs are shown in
Appendix 4 to this Technical Annex.
Table 1: Summary Project Costs by Component
Indicative           IDA-        IDA
Costs       % of     financing  financing
Component                  (US$M)       Total   (US$M)      (%)
Social Infrastructure Recovery  4.22      67       3.80        90
Emergency and Risk             1.83       29        1.80       99
Management
Project Management             0.27        4        0.26       92
TOTAL PROJECT                  6.31       100       5.85       93
The Government indicated at negotiations an intention to exempt foreign consultant services for the Project from taxation.



- 6 -
14.   From the total financing required of USD 6.31 million equivalent, IDA would finance
US$5.85 million equivalent (100% of foreign exchange costs and 70% of local costs excluding
taxes). The proposed IDA financing would cover 93% of total project costs and 95.3% of the
total costs net of taxes and duties. The GOT would finance the remaining expenditures estimated
at US$0.46 million equivalent, including US$0.17 million of taxes and duties. A breakdown of
the financing plan and the estimated disbursement schedule are shown in Appendix 4 of this
Technical Annex. This Technical Annex is distributed in support of the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, Report No. P 7533-TON dated May 7, 2002.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization and Management
15.   Oversight. The government would establish a Project Coordination Committee (PCC),
chaired by the Secretary of Finance and comprising representatives of all agencies involved in
implementation of the project, i.e.: Ministry of Works (MOW), Ministry of Lands, Survey and
Natural Resources (MLSNR), Central Planning, National Disaster Management Office (NDMO)
and VDMC. The PCC would be responsible for the overall coordination of the project
implementation and achieving all the performance indicators.
16.   A Project Management Unit (PMU) under the PCC would be responsible for the day-to-
day management, monitoring and coordination of the project activities. The PMU will be located
within the Ministry of Finance, and comprise a Project Manager/Procurement Officer, Finance
Officer, Project Accountant, and Administrative Assistant. The PMU will be responsible for
project accounting and financial management in cooperation with the Treasury Department,
Ministry of Finance. It will report on a monthly basis on progress in project implementation.
17.   Implementing Agencies. There are three implementing agencies - Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Ministry of Works (MOW), and Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources
(MLSNR) - that will implement the respective components under the project, as follows:
(a) Ministry of Finance:                      Components A.2, B. 1 and C;
(b) Ministry of Works:                        Components A. 1, A.3 and B.3
(c) Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources  Component B.2.
Under the guidance of the PMU, the implementing agencies will be responsible for project
procurement, including preparation of bidding documents, evaluation and contract award,
inspection and certification of completion of works, and management of contracts.
18.   Implementation: The main housing component (A. 1) would be undertaken through a
single ICB contract for the construction of 400 houses by December 2002, in order to achieve
reliable and fast implementation and low costs, supervised by a firm to be selected through
quality and cost-based selection (QCBS). A preliminary list of housing recipients was reviewed
at appraisal and their eligibility will be verified through a survey to be conducted prior to
construction of the houses - the eligibility criteria and the list of villages involved are presented
in Appendix 1 (see Table 2). The community-based works for reconstruction of community



- 7 -
buildings in Vava'u (A.2) are to be managed by the PMU through the VDMC who would
administer the selection of subprojects and certify completion. The community-based works for
retrofitting of existing buildings throughout the country (A.3) are to be managed by MOW
through a firm or NGO who would be appointed to administer the selection of subprojects and
certification of completion. For both A.2 and A.3, specialist technical oversight and guidance
will be provided through MOW and its advisors, and all grants for the community-based works
would be administered by the PMU. The advisory services for emergency and risk management,
and development of a risk mitigation strategy would be provided through an international
consulting firm selected by QCBS, acting in partnership with programs implemented by SOPAC.
The aerial surveys and development of spatial information systems would be procured through
ICB and managed by the MLSNR. The PMU and an independent audit firm will both be
appointed at the beginning of the Project, as conditions of effectiveness.
19.   Project implementation is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. The Closing Date
of the Credit will be December 31, 2005.
Financial Management and Disbursement and Reporting
20.   A formal assessment of the financial management capacity was performed on all of the
implementing agencies of the project. This indicates the need to strengthen the financial
management system of the various implementing government ministries and agencies to meet the
Bank's minimum requirements for financial management. Moreover, there are parallel programs
which would strengthen the financial management and accounting systems of some of the
Government agencies, and address relevant financial management issues such as good
governance practices and strengthening of the planning, monitoring and reporting capability of
the ministries. The World Bank could complement initiatives on further strengthening of the
financial management systems in various government agencies in future projects, which would
require a broader and in-depth evaluation to harmonize with the works of the donors and ADB.
Meanwhile, to ensure the smooth implementation of the project, the Government agreed to
install an integrated financial management information and accounting systems that could
generate the reporting information required to meet both international accounting standards
(IAS) and the Bank's minimum requirements.
Funds Flow
21.   GOT/MOF would pass on IDA funds through the MOF's coordinating team to the
various implementation agencies (MOW and MLSNR) in accordance with the prevailing policies
and procedures applicable for IDA funds with GOT bearing the foreign exchange risk. These
funds will usually be transferred from IDA to the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT), into
a Special account held in the name of MOF, and otherwise by direct payment to the payee. The
counterpart funds will be transferred through the MOF at the beginning of the year through
annual budgetary allocations (based on annual procurement work plans). The local currency
Project Account, to be set-up in the NRBT and funded in Pa'anga, will serve as the depository of
counterpart funds for the project.



-8 -
Disbursement Arrangements
22.   The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at the National Reserve
Bank of Tonga, which is capable of providing efficient payment and clearing facilities. IDA
would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$585,000. Initially, the allocation
would be limited to US$200,000, until disbursements have reached SDR 2.0 million, at which
time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. The SA will be maintained by the
coordinating team. These amounts would be used only for the purposes of the project to cover
its project expenditures. Disbursements under the credit will be made on a transactional basis,
using SOEs, for (a) grants, (b) goods, (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, (d) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training and
workshops, and (f) incremental operating costs. In addition, the Borrower will open a local
currency account in the Central Bank, for depositing the GOT's counterpart financing
contributions for the project. Supporting documents will be maintained by the coordinating team,
and made available to the IDA's visiting missions and auditors as required. The coordinating
team will also prepare and provide to IDA its quarterly reports on implementation progress along
with Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in formats agreed with the IDA. The FMRs will be
used for monitoring purposes. These arrangements are discussed in detail in Appendix 5 to this
Technical Annex.
Audit
23.   Project accounts will be audited on a semi-annual and annual basis in accordance with
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA. The auditor's
report will be made available to the IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year for the
annual audit and within 45 days after the semi-annual closing of books, every 15th of August and
February. The audits will include a separate opinion on the SOE, the Special Account, sub-
projects work, and grants. The first audit (for the financial year 2002) would include a review
and commentary on the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of 2002's financial
statements. A qualified, independent external auditor, acceptable to the IDA, would be appointed
within two months after project effectiveness. The costs of annual audits will be made by the
from the proceeds of the Credit.
Retroactive Financing
24.   Retroactive financing of up to SDR 940,000 (US$1.17 million) (20% of the proposed
Credit amount) would be available for eligible expenditures incurred since April 16, 2002, which
is the date of completion of the Bank's appraisal, provided they comply with the agreed
procurement guidelines. This provision would allow for the Credit to cover project preparation
activities and for the main contract to be procured in time to achieve completion by the end of
2002.



-9 -
Project Sustainability
25.   As the key focus of the project is rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure, future
maintenance needs are minimized through the hazard-resistant design and evidence of past
robustness. For other aspects, the provisions for extensive dissemination on risk mitigation
techniques through training in application of the new building code, for inspectors, builders and
homeowners, is expected to gradually change building practices and thus progressively reduce
the vulnerability of buildings to natural disasters. This, together with the incentives provided for
retrofitting of existing buildings for hazard resistance, should extend the improvement in
resilience of buildings well beyond the affected area. In respect of emergency management, the
lessons learned from the response to TC Waka, the additional information tools, and the
restructured institutional arrangements, are expected to result in a more sustainable and effective
organization and procedures.
Environmental and Social Aspects
26.   The magnitude of adverse environmental impacts is expected to be minor. The types of
environmental issues that may arise relate to land clearing for site preparation, movement of
workers, equipment, and materials to and from project site, and proper disposal of debris. Civil
works contracts for housing reconstruction works will include special technical provisions
specifying good environmental practices, in compliance with the environmental requirements of
the Bank. The supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring that environmental
requirements as contractually stipulated are followed.
27.   The majority of the affected population is from socio-economic groups least able to cope
with loss of home and income. The affected households tend to be large in size, 6- 8 household
members, and are engaged primarily in subsistence agriculture and fishing. Cash incomes are
low and tentatively in the range of TOP 1,200 to TOP 2,000 per year per household. Financial
capacity to re-build homes to cyclone-resistant standards was reported to be limited. It is
therefore anticipated that the replacement of housing under the project will have positive social
impacts.
Potential Land Tenure Issues
28.   Most of the activities under the project are restoration works and do not therefore require
any new land acquisition from local land owners, or alienation of land under different tenure
systems. Since no new land, which is being otherwise used by anyone for residence or
cultivation, is expected to be acquired or alienated, there is little likelihood of any clearance of
squatters or encroachers. Bank guidelines require that households establish ownership or usufruct
to the land where the houses will be rebuilt. Accordingly, eligibility criteria for participation in
the project include documentary evidence to establish legal ownership or continued occupation
of the house by the current occupant.



- 10-
Participatory Approach
29.   Civil society has been extensively consulted during the preparation of the project. The
project design has been presented to and reviewed by NGO representatives and local church
organizations; views and information were obtained from local tradesmen, builders, and private
commercial banks. Continued involvement of the beneficiaries is built into the project
implementation arrangements. Implementation will include engagement of a local NGO for the
public information and education campaign, and possibly for monitoring the community building
and retrofitting components.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
30.   There are four primary sources of benefits from the Project. Direct benefits will accrue to
the poor and others made homeless or affected by the cyclone through first, a more secure and
resilient dwelling, and second through the financial asset value of the house. Second, deferred
benefits will accrue to the country through a reduction of potential damage costs and loss of
productivity when another cyclone emergency strikes. Third, citizens will be better prepared,
less vulnerable to injury or loss, and expect-faster and more effective response in terms of
emergency information, rescue and relief supplies as a result of the improved ERM procedures.
Finally, all public and private economic assets could be better protected and less vulnerable to
damage as a result of the hazard mapping, and the risk management strategy and individual
plans, resulting in lower risks and exposure to risk and consequently lower damage and recovery
costs.
Project Risks
31.   The risks in the project include controllable and uncontrollable risks. The risk of further
natural hazards - storm, earthquake or tsunami - are moderate to substantial. The damage risk
from major cyclone-level storms is about 5 times higher than from major earthquakes - major
cyclones occur every 10 years and minor cyclones 2 years on average, and major earthquakes
about 50 years on average - however, these frequencies may change and intensities may worsen
in the coming decades as a result of global warming. Controllable risks include: (i) weak
implementation capacity, including slow or flawed procurement; (ii) financial risk in potential
for mismanagement of funds; (iii) slow or inaccurate accounting; (iv) inappropriate selection of
beneficiaries; and (v) low absorption of institutional strengthening and training. These risks will
be mitigated through the financial management, procurement and implementation arrangements
defined for the project.
Agreed Actions
32.   The following were agreed at negotiations as conditions of effectiveness:  (i)
Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee; (ii) Establishment of the Project
Management Unit; (iii) Appointment of an independent auditor with qualifications and
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (iv) Evidence satisfactory to IDA on the



- 11 -
land tenure arrangements made with each affected household and beneficiary shall be furnished
to IDA; (v) Adoption of an Operational Manual; and (vi) Adoption of a project financial
management system in operational condition and satisfactory to IDA.
33.   Other actions, necessary to the prompt and effective implementation of the Project, were
agreed at negotiations, as follows: (i) Revision of the basic house design and preparation/issue
of bidding documents for housing construction contract by May 15, 2002; (ii) Completion of an
operational manual by May 31, 2002; (iii) Appointment of the Project Manager and Financial
Officer by June 15, 2002; (iv) Completion of a verification survey of intended housing
recipients, verifying their eligibility for housing assistance under the Project and collecting
baseline demographic profiles, by June 30, 2002; (v) Establishment of a revised national
emergency and risk management strategy and institutional framework satisfactory to IDA and
endorsed by Cabinet by October 31, 2002; (vi) Specific improvement of budgetary and executive
powers of the national management of emergencies and natural disasters satisfactory to IDA and
endorsed by Cabinet by October 31, 2002; and (vii) Draft regulations authorizing powers for
inspection and enforcement of building requirements for all buildings, under existing legislation,
would be agreed with MOH and submitted to Cabinet by November 30, 2002.



- 12 -                            Appendix I
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
HOUSING COMPONENT
Background
1.    The housing sector suffered the most as a result of the cyclone; according to government
estimates about 60% of all structures were damaged. Much of the damage was to old residential
houses and poorly constructed community buildings, such as churches and schools - damage to
education facilities delayed the start of the school year by two weeks. Of the affected structures,
about 10% were completely demolished, 20% suffered major roof and wall damage, and the
remainder were moderately damaged. The National Disaster Management Committee estimates
that 512 houses were completely destroyed and 1000 houses were partially or moderately
damaged, 23 community halls were completely damaged and 36 partially damaged in Vava'u
and Niuafo'ou. The majority of the buildings were uninsured, and the NDMC is compiling
information on the numbers of insured structures. Detailed and reliable field information,
including household information on affected households, is now being assembled.
Post-cyclone Relief Efforts
2.    In early January, the government appealed to the donor community for rehabilitation
assistance to mitigate the effects of the cyclone. In response, the Canada Fund redirected aid to
school repairs which is being managed by TANGO, an association of NGOs. Australia and New
Zealand are providing assistance of about US$360,000 to rehabilitate schools. Caritas (Catholic
Relief Services) is providing assistance for the reconstruction of 30 houses, in phases of 10. This
work is already under way - the selection process for the first set of 10 households has been
completed and construction has been initiated. Additionally, the Australian government has
confirmed grant funding for 30 units and the EU is considering providing a grant to assist
implementation of the IDA housing replacement program. On its part, IDA is proposing to
contribute about US$4.2 million towards reconstruction and retrofitting activities in the housing
sector.
Component Objective
3.    The primary objective of the proposed component is to assist the government of Tonga in
replacing and rehabilitating badly damaged social infrastructure in the urban and rural areas of
Vava'u affected by the cyclone, and to improve building resilience to natural hazards
nationwide.
Component Description
Component A - Housing Component (USD 4.2 million).
(see Appendix 4 for a detailed cost breakdown)



-13 -                              Appendix l
4.    Sub-component Al: Construction of replacement housing (USD 3.4 million). The
principal objective of this sub-component is to assist the GOT in replacing approximately 400
housing units, representing about 80 percent of collapsed or heavily damnaged units in the
Vava'u island group. Units with missing roofs or missing roofs and walls are classified as
heavily damaged. Extensive consultations with government and civil society representatives
confirmed the choice of a standard residential unit to be provided to all beneficiaries. The
houses would be constructed on the previous house sites, and no relocation of houses is planned.
The existing housing model from the post-1982 recovery has proved to be robust with very few
of these units affected by TC Waka even about 20 years after construction. The housing model
provided under the proposed project will be the existing 2 room, 35 square meters, cyclone-
resistant unit developed and installed after the 1982 tropical cyclone Isaac, with modifications as
described in Appendix 2. The cost per unit of the updated standard model is estimated to be
TOP 16,000 (US$8,000), including transportation of materials and on-site installation.
5.    The government is currently in discussions with the European Union for the financing of
VIP latrines and water tank units for households in Vava'u. The combined cost of the water
tanks and VIP latrines is estimated at TOP 2,600 (US$1,300). It is proposed that if EU funding
is confirmed, the toilet and water tank units would be provided to the selected beneficiary
households under the IDA housing component. The EU funded works would then be a parallel
activity to this project.
6.    The Borrower has completed a preliminary assessment of affected households, and is
responsible for providing an update of the damage assessment and eligibility estimates by June
30, 2002. Based on this update, the Bank will review the total number of housing units to be
constructed in order to mitigate the risk of over-investments. The preliminary damage
assessment completed by the Vava'u Disaster Management Committee is summarized in Table 1
below. The table lists the numbers of households with completely or heavily damaged houses,
and who would be potentially eligible for replacement housing. A detailed list of the villages is
given in Table 2, which will be confirmed by June 30, 2002 following the verification survey,
and will be the basis for allocating houses for assistance, between financing agencies.
Table 1. Distribution Of Households* By District And Village
No.        District         Villages    Households
I   Pangaimotu               4            56
2   Hahake                   24           167
3   Hihifo                   5            72
4   Leimatu'a                4            90
5   Outer Island villages    10           84
Total                   47           469
* Households with completely or substantially damaged housing units
Source: Damage Assessment List prepared by the Govenunent of Tonga



- 14 -                              Appendix I
Table 2: Beneficiary Villages, By District
VAHE HAHAKE    VAHE HAHAKE    OUTER ISLANDS VILLAGES    OUTER ISLANDS VILLAGES
Tu'anekivale   Talau          Tuanga                    Hunga
Ha'akio        Fa'okula       Kapa                      Ovaka
Ta'anea        Houmelei      'Otea                      VAHE PANGAIMOTU
Holeva         Fangatongo     Longomapu                 Pangaimotu
Koloa          Tailulu        Olo'ua                    Nga'unoho
Houma          Okoa           Nuapapu                   Utungake
Mangia         Neiafu         Falevai                   'Utulei
Ha'alaufuli    Neiafutahi     Tefisi                    VAHE LEIMATU'A
Toula          Saineai        Tu' Anuku                 Mataika
Utui           Masilamea      Vaimalo                   Leimatu'a
Fungamisi      Sailoame       Lape                      Holonga
Makave         Falaleu        Matamaka                  Feletoa
Source: Damage Assessment List prepared by the Government of Tonga
7.    Sub-component A2: Rehabilitation of community buildings (USD 0.26 million). A number
of public buildings, mainly schools and community halls, were also damaged during the cyclone.
While bilateral donors are providing assistance for re-building schools, there is as yet no
provision for community halls which are used for a variety of public and community activities.
This sub-component will finance the structural repair of about 40 community facilities in project
villages, including the design and supervision of the repair works. Each village will receive an
equal grant of about TOP 12,000 (US$6,000) towards rehabilitation costs; the beneficiary
communities are expected to contribute to the total costs of works in cash and/or kind. Works
under this sub-component will be managed by the PMU through the VDMC, who will be
responsible for selection and verification of the subprojects, and general supervision. They will
be assisted by a technical specialist under MOW to ensure that all civil works are completed to
cyclone resistant standards and comply with the draft building code.
8.    Sub-component A3: Retrofitting existing housing stock (USD 0.53 million). The majority
of the buildings damaged in the cyclone were structurally weak and ad hoc buildings. The
absence of construction standards hitherto means that across the country there are houses, shops,
and service establishments vulnerable to future cyclones. Approximately 250 households and
small businesses will receive grant assistance on a voluntary basis for upgrading structures to
cyclone resistant standards. Beneficiaries will be eligible to receive 50 percent of the estimated
repair costs, with a maximum grant of TOP 5,000 (US$2,500) per household or business
establishment for approved treatments. The acceptance of sub-projects and certification of works
would be implemented under a contract with a firm or an NGO, with the guidance of a technical
specialist (same as in A.2). The payment of the grants would be administered by the PMU upon
certification by the implementing entity, and audited on statements of expenditure.
Eligibility Criteria
9.    Sub-component Al. The MOW has developed, jointly with Caritas, criteria for the
selection of beneficiary households under the Caritas housing assistance program. Selection of



- 15 -                             Appendix I
beneficiaries is based on the number of children in the household, collapse of housing unit,
presence of elderly, infants, or widows in the household, absence of land allotment for
agriculture, and security of land tenure. The main filter is poverty. The initial selection of
beneficiaries is completed by the village church; the Caritas representative then interviews each
household to determine the level of poverty and need using a standard questionnaire and open
ended discussions, and makes the final selection along with the Vava'u Disaster Management
Committee (VDMC).
10.   For the proposed IDA project, the eligibility requirements will generally follow the
criteria developed by the MOW, except that social vulnerability will become a priority, not
selection, criterion and the financial criterion becomes the capacity to rebuild the house to
hazard-resistant standard. Thus, modifications have been made for this project. To receive
assistance under this component, potential beneficiaries must meet the following criteria:
i)    house is damaged beyond repair and requires complete replacement;
ii)   household has inadequate financial capacity and no cyclone insurance to rebuild the
house to cyclone-resistant standard; and
iii)  Legal verification of established and continuing occupancy of the housing site under
arrangements similar to those prior to the cyclone event, supported by a written
consent from the landowner.
Priority among the beneficiaries would be given to:
iv)   Households who have members at high risk, such as infants/small children, elderly,
handicapped, widowed and sick people; and
v)    Households in most needy social circumstances.
11.   The main modification to the VDMC criteria is the requirement regarding security of
land tenure. Under the Land Act of 1927, all Tongan males are entitled to a town allotment for
residential purposes, and a tax allotment of agricultural land. In reality, not all Tongan males
and households have such allotments. Due to the practice of land and estate holders allowing
occupancy and use of land through "words", that is, verbal commitments, there may be some
beneficiaries who lack documentation establishing the right to use of the land they occupy. To
ensure that land required for the project is legally available, and to ensure that current occupants
are not dispossessed of the houses provided under the project, all beneficiaries would be required
to produce one of the following documentary evidence establishing ownership or usufruct:
* Deed of grant (registration)
* Deed of lease
* Certificate of apportionment (blue form) from the MLSNR



- 16 -                            Appendix 1
* letter from the land owner in favor of the current occupant, establishing continued
occupation of the land and replacement house. The letter can be either witnessed by a
third party or duly sworn affidavit before a magistrate or Commissioner of Oaths.
12.   Sub-component A3. All households and small-medium enterprises (excepting
manufacturing/industrial facilities) in the country are eligible to participate in this sub-
component. The beneficiaries will be selected on a first come, first served basis. Households and
businesses would be eligible for only one grant, irrespective of the number of structures owned.
Beneficiaries would receive 1:1 grant subsidies of up to TOP 5,000 for approved treatments.
They would be required to prepare a repair plan and undertake investments according to
standards which protect against future cyclone risks, and agree to inspection of the completed
repairs by the implementing firm or NGO.
Benefits and Target population
13.   Immediate benefits are the availability of housing services to the inhabitants of the
Vava'u islands group, including Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu. The project will directly benefit
the displaced persons forced to live in temporary shelters after the disaster by constructing
houses with improved standards and less vulnerability to future cyclones; and by introducing
techniques designed to restore confidence in the quality of construction. Since the majority of
the population affected by TC Waka has been shown to be of the lowest socio-economic groups,
the replacement housing will have direct impact on the poorest members of the community.
14.   Nationwide benefits will also result from the retrofitting component which will reduce
vulnerability of houses and small business structures to future hazards. The involvement of the
community in repair of community buildings and upgrading will strengthen the capacity of
community as a whole to build to higher standards and improve building resilience to hazards.
The involvement of civil society - churches, NGOs - would ensure community leadership and
ownership of the activities and enable communities to undertake future maintenance of
buildings.



-17-                              Appendix 2
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
EVALUATION OF BUILDING PRACTICES
Background
1.    A comprehensive evaluation of building practices in Tonga was completed, with a view
to providing long-term improvements, and to support the housing component. In the project
design, sub-component B3 incorporates actions towards reducing the vulnerability of all
buildings to natural hazards.
Current Building Practice
2.    Building practices in Tonga can be generally classified as 'commercial' or 'non-
commercial'. The building consent procedure currently in place is controlled by the Ministry of
Health and is contained within the Public Health Act of 1992. Although it prescribes that all
buildings require a building consent, in practice this is limited to 'commercial' buildings only.
Building consent applications are made through the Ministry of Health which is responsible for
ensuring adequate levels of hygiene within buildings. This includes an assessment of kitchen and
food preparation areas (where applicable), fresh water supply provisions, and storm and waste
water disposal methods. The consent application is also checked by the Ministry of Works
(structural and architectural compliance), the Fire Department (Fire separation and suppression
compliance) and the Ministry of Lands Survey and Natural Resources (land tenure and site
clearances). Building permits are issued under the signature of the Minister of Lands and Survey
upon endorsement of permit application documents.
3.    The architectural check is generally limited to an overall acceptance of the plan layout
proposed. Consideration is given to ensure adequate separation between living, food preparation
and ablution areas are present and that external ventilation and lighting is available in habitable
spaces. These checks are experience based as there are currently no rules or guidelines
documented which clearly prescribe 'adequacy'.
4.    Structural adequacy involves the Ministry of Works engineering section. Consent
applications are usually accompanied by a certificate from a engineering consultant. Detailed
calculations are only reviewed when ambiguities are uncovered during the review. Responsibility
for building safety rests with the structural design engineer. Structural calculations are prepared
using either New Zealand or Australian Standards (or a combination of both). The design actions
usually use either AS 1170 Part 1 or NZS 4203 to determine the permanent and occupancy loads,
AS 1170 Part 2 to determine the wind forces and NZS 4203 Part 3 for the seismic loads.
5.    For wind and cyclone force determination for Ultimate Limit State (collapse avoidance)
compliance, design wind speeds of 75 m/sec are used. Figure 1 has been prepared from the
2002 edition of the joint New Zealand and Australian wind loading standard. This standard
recognizes differences in design wind speeds for claddings and overall structure, and together



- 18 -                                Appendix 2
with its 1989 predecessor, local acceleration effects, which occur with hilly topography. While
the reference wind speed of 75 mlsec is simple to apply across Tonga, reference to Figure 1
indicates the design wind speed should be increased for hill topographic effects but may be
reduced for flat sites. It appears to be generally accepted that Tonga can be considered as being
equivalent to Cyclone Zone C within the standard. The design return period applicable is
expected to be either 1/500 years (i.e. 10% probability of excedence over a 50 year design life)
or 1/200 (i.e. a similar probability of failure over a shorter design life or a 15% probability of
failure over 50 years).
Cyclone     R      Basic    Cyclone    M(ZCat)     MD            MT          VD
Region   (return   Wind     Region    (terrain  (direction)  (Topography)  (Design
period)  Speed      ULS      Cat 2 &                               Wind
(m/sec)  Multiplier  ht 4 m)                              Speed)
(m/sec)
C         200 yrs    61       1.05      0.91    0.95 (o'turn)  1.0 (Flat)    55.4
1.32 (Hilly)     73.1
1.0 (Cladding)  1.0           58.3
1.32 (Hilly)     76.9
500 yrs    66       1.05       0.91   0.95 (o'turn)  1.0 (Flat)     59.9
1.32 (Hilly)     79.8
1.0 (Cladding)  1.0           63.1
1.32 (Hilly)     83.2
D         200 yrs    72        1.1      0.91    0.95 (o'turn)  1.0 (Flat)     68.5
1.32 (Hilly)     90.4
1.0 (Cladding)  1.0           72.1
1.32 (Hilly)     95.1
500 yrs    80        1.1       0.91   0.95 (o'turn)  1.0 (Flat)     76.1
1.32 (Hilly)    100.4
1.0 (Cladding) 1.0            80.0
1 1.32 (Hilly)    105.7
Figure 1 Ultimate Limit State Design Wind Speeds (From AS/NZS 1170.2 2002)
6.     Earthquake design actions are currently determined by reference to the New Zealand
Loading Standard, NZS 4203 Part 3 with a lateral base shear coefficient of 0.25 being applicable
throughout Tonga. For building consent approval, the engineering consultant is required to
submit a design certificate indicating responsibility for the engineering integrity of the building,
and the Ministry of Works engineering check is predominantly an overview assessment.
7.     Figure 2 has been prepared to provide a comparison with the design spectra proposed for
different seismic zones in New Zealand. The approach used is that buildings can either be
designed to remain elastic (undamaged) during the design event, in which case the higher
coefficients in the left chart of Figure 2 should be used. Alternatively, for economy they may be
designed and detailed as either ductile or limited ductile buildings in which case some damage is
to be expected, and the building is designed to the lower base shear coefficients of the right chart
in Figure 2. The detailing provisions required to accompany the use of the lower base shear
coefficient are however quite rigorous. While they are prescribed in detail in the New Zealand
materials standards, the detailing provisions are absent from materials standards used in other,
non-seismic regions such as Australia. Thus the detailing provisions for concrete or masonry



- 19 -                              Appendix 2
buildings include the use of closely spaced, well anchored reinforcing ties or hoops in columns
and beam end zones to confine the main member reinforcement and to contain the concrete core
thus preventing loss of vertical load carrying capacity and thus storey collapse.
8.    Results from the earthquake hazard study undertaken by SOPAC (Shorten et al, 20002
have been used to develop the indicative elastic response spectra for Nuku'alofa. While the
spectral shape is different, particularly in the longer period range, the comparison with
Christchurch seismicity appears reasonable. This is consistent with the current lateral base shear
coefficient of 0.25g used throughout Tonga, provided the appropriate detailing is applied. When
buildings are designed solely in accordance with the Australian materials standards or other
standards which do not prescribe additional ductile detailing provisions for post-elastic
earthquake performnance, then the imposed base shear should be significantly greater that the
0.25g value currently used.
9.     Much of the construction within Tonga appears to be undertaken without the specific
limited ductility provisions necessary to use the lower design spectra and that the currently used
base shear coefficient of 0.25g is thus too low to ensure adequate earthquake performance
during a major seismic event.
Elastic Design Response Spectra       Limited Ductile Design Response Spectra
C(h) Z (Eastic response)           C(h) Z (Limited Ductile Buildings)
1.6
. . - .0.44 Mtn      0.6 -      - ---    - - - 0s44 ML - 3
1.4                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SC C Wgtn
t4_- - -0.25 Chch                          --0.25 MIA
0.5 _SC-CCh
t2               _- - -0.1 Auck                                CAulck
m NwukAlofa
Co1.0             -       NukuAlo        0.4
I~                       .1                                  _
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~
0u                    0S0
08                                     0  0.3
10
(0 0.6    ___~~~~~C 02                N
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C..
0.1                        _ _
0.2 
Report 300. Suva.
0.0                            ~~   ~~  ~~   ~~~~~~0  1  2  3  4  5  6
0    1    2    3    4    5   6
Period (sec)                            Period (sec)
Figure 2: Earthquake Design Spectra (from Draft ASINZS 1170 part 4 2002)
2 Shorten 2001 Site Specific Earthquake Hazard Determination in the Capital Cities of the South Pacific. SOPAC Technical
Report 300. Suva.



- 20 -                            Appendix 2
10.   House Construction Practices and Design Requirements. Government housing designs in
Tonga are generally undertaken in accordance with the New Zealand Standard for timber
framing, NZS 3604, but with the lateral bracing resistance being achieved using plywood
sheathing panels rather than the gypsum plaster board lining commonly used in New Zealand.
11.   The distribution and breakdown of households by construction type for the Vava'u
district and for Tonga and Tongatapu are prescribed in Figure 3.
2000                               12000 -
VavaWu Division  _ong10000              a
1500                                                  a Vava'u
8000               o Tongatapu
1000 -                              6000 -             E Tonga
4000-
500 -   _n_111,l                 ,2000          -
o                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
_~~~~ sP' *d                            *Ot$    _S    . e 
Figure 3: Household distribution of housing types (1996 census)
12.   Private dwellings are often of dubious quality with one or more of the following
structural weaknesses:
* A lack of discemable lateral wall bracing capacity with internal linings often poorly
connected to the framing or missing altogether.
* The lack of an effective load path to resist either wind uplift or any lateral forces.
* Inadequate footing and piles often used to elevate the structure over 1 meter above the
ground without cross bracing or lateral resistance.
* Wooden piles were seen to be weakened by decay or were being rebuilt using non-durable
timber.
* Concrete quality is often poor with several instances observed where piers have degraded
to the extent that vertical steel is visible and exposed to the weather.
* Corrugated iron is by far the most common formn of roof sheathing. It is fixed to the
purlins with nails. The recent introduction of Nuway spiral shank nails is now providing a
small (12mm diameter) metal washer which will assist resist sheathing pull-through but is
unlikely to provide sufficient resistance to cyclonic wind effects either in terms of nail
withdrawal capacity of or sheathing fatigue loading.



- 21 -                            Appendix 2
* Positive wind uplift connection of purlins to rafters and rafters to wall framing is
commonplace and was reflective of the widespread loss of roofing during TC Waka.
* The use of non-durable timber species as roof and wall framing members, when combined
with high humidity and significant rainfall, can be expected to result in an effective life of
the building of less than 25 years.
* While metal timber fasteners are generally galvanized, they are also often exposed to the
weather and used on sites well within the salt spray zone (500 m of the sea) where salt
deposits are expected. Many are clearly showing signs of rust development and
degradation.
The structural integrity of the buildings built in this manner is very unreliable.
13.   Cyclone damage during Tropical Cyclone Waka. Tropical Cyclone Waka began to
impact on the islands of Vava'u on the evening of December 3 lSt. The maximum sustained wind
speeds reported were estimated to be 100 knots (55 m/sec) with gusts up to 140 knots (78 m/sec).
The damage observed to buildings is generally consistent with that which can be expected for
buildings when they are subjected to severe winds. These generally involved the loss of the roof
structure (usually as a result of insufficient tie-down against wind uplift effects). Once the roof
was removed, the support provided by the roof/ceiling combination generally became ineffective
and the walls collapsed, often with both the roof and walls being carried significant distances
downwind. Damage to downwind property is common in these circumstances with flying debris
impacting on and damaging the integrity of the down-wind building envelope.
14.   TC Waka was particularly severe in this regard because the eye of the storm passed
directly over the islands. Thus high velocity winds were initially experienced from the North
West, and were followed by severe winds from the South East. This, in combination with the
relatively hilly terrain on the island, resulted in sites being exposed to very high wind speeds
either from one or other direction or from both. Fortunately the cyclone passage was rapid and
apparently, although accompanied by rain, this was not as severe as can be experienced during
cyclones.
15.   Reports of building damage and the inspections undertaken confirm that most building
failures resulted from poor standards of construction with little or no tie-down connections
between the elements of the building envelope. Many buildings were also old and showed clear
signs of deterioration. Some durability concerns were noted on schools and houses erected
following TC Issac (March 1982). These generally took the form of white or red rust deposits
being visible on galvanised metal surfaces, particularly when located on coastal sites. Some
examples of wall racking failures were also observed, although the building was unlined and had
a weatherboard plank exterior sheathing. No cases of foundation failure as a result of whole-
structure overturning were seen. One of the 1982 Tonga Hurricane houses did however
experience sub-floor racking failure, where the piled foundation was in an advanced stage of
decay.



- 22 -                           Appendix 2
Component Objective (B.3)
16.   Improvement of Building standards (US$0.20 million, 3% of total project cost): The
objective of this component is to assist the GOT in the implementation and dissemination of
improved building codes, and training of the building industry, through advisory services,
training and workshops.
Component description
17.   This subcomponent B.3 would include the following:
B.3. 1 Review of legislation under which the Code is to be enacted, the structure under
which it is intended to operate, and the technical approach upon which it has been
derived.
B.3.2 Development of a training program for the building control authorities to enable
the introduction of the Code.
B.3.3 Development of a public awareness campaign to bring the requirements and
implications of the new Code to the notice of local building contractors and
building owners.
B.3.4 Development of a set of guidelines describing how to retrofit existing houses to
improve their cyclone resistance.
Each of these activities is further described below.
B.3.1 Lezislative Review of Building Code
18.   Scope: Review of legislation supporting introduction of the Code, the structure under
which it is intended to operate and the technical approach upon which it has been derived.
19.   Issues:
(i)  Legislation initiating the enactment of the Code is set down for consideration by
Parliament within its next setting. The Code is available (3rd draft) and appears
closely aligned with the Building Code of Australia. Significant amendments are
to be called up within the Building Code of Australia in the July 2002 revision,
the implications of which need to be assessed prior to the adoption of the Code.
(ii)  While a local review of the Code has occurred during its preparation and has
resulted in the 3rd draft being prepared, changes have recently occurred in both
the regulations (stipulating the societal values and acceptable probability of
actions being exceeded) and the referenced standards (e.g. the publication of
AS/NZS 1170 parts 0 1 and 2 which require design return periods and acceptable
probability of failure of different classes of buildings to be nominated). These
changes create contradictions within the proposed Code that need to be resolved
before it is enacted.



- 23 -                            Appendix 2
(iii)  Technical inconsistencies exist within this draft that need to be urgently rectified
if the adoption and application of the Code is to progress smoothly.
20.   Implementation Strategy:
(i)   A review of the proposed legal framework under which the Code is to operate is
required so as to ensure an appropriate structure is available to implement the
Code.
(ii)  A technical audit of the Code is required to ensure the current inconsistencies
between the referenced documents and proposed application procedures are
consistent and to not conflict of contradict each other.
21.   Procurement Requirements: A building performance specialist would be engaged to
review the proposed legislation under which the Code is to operate so as to ensure the intended
building performance criteria are consistent with and appropriate for the Kingdom. The specialist
is to allow for consultation with the Code drafting committee to ensure a clear understanding of
the performance objectives of the Code. This phase of work is expected to extend over 2 months
and has an estimated consultancy value of US$30,000 plus disbursements US$5000.
B.3.2 Training Program for Building Control Authorities
22.   Scope: Development of a training program for the building control authorities to enable
introduction of the National Building Code.
23.   Issues.
(i)  Need to cause a paradigm shift in the way that buildings are authorized and built.
This is particularly the case for the housing sector where there are currently no
approval requirements in place and no baseline against which performance levels
can be assessed.
(ii)  The successful implementation of the new Code requires suitably qualified and
trained building control officials to be in place to assist the industry and the
community as the new controls are brought into force.
(iii)  The building unit established to implement the Code must be well trained in the
procedures by which building consent applications are processed, the compliance
of the building in the field and the quality of that building is consistent with the
consent application, the occupancy certification that recognizes completion of the
building, compliance with the Code to the quality appropriate and the
responsibility of all parties in ensuring the requirements of the Code are met.
24.   Implementation Strategy: Develop a set of training programs for the building control
officials which:
(i)  Outline the legal framework under with the Code will operate with particular emphasis
on the role, responsibilities and limitations of the officials under that legislation. A



- 24 -                            Appendix 2
disputes resolution procedure for cases where compliance or approval issues can be
resolved would be included.
(ii)  Detail the new building code requirements and how they are to be satisfied.
(iii)  Provide a ready source which the inspectors can use reference as to the specific
requirements (particularly with regards housing) and the means of compliance
25.   Procurement Requirements: A professional training specialist would be engaged to
prepare a detailed training plan and workbooks that can be used and referenced by building
control officials on a day-by-day basis as they implement the new National Building Code. This
work should be implemented during the first 3 months of the program so as to be in place when
the regulations covering the Code are enacted. This phase of work is expected to extend over 6
months.
B.3.3 Public Awareness Campaign
26.   Scope: Development of a public awareness campaign to bring the requirements and
implications of the new Code to the notice of local building contractors and building owners
27.   Issues:
(i) The new Code will introduce a degree of building control never previously
present in Tonga. There is a very large knowledge gap throughout the community
and within the building industry as to what the implications of the Code are both
to the building occupier and to the building contractor.
(ii)  The new Code is performance oriented and has clearly stated performance
objectives within each of the section (e.g. Structural Stability, Fire, Electrical
reticulation, Hygiene, etc.). While the performance objectives are stated, they are
not quantified but rather rely on equivalence with deemed-to-satisfy provisions.
This concept is quite different from all previous experiences of the building
industry and will result in widespread confusion unless it is accompanied by a
well targeted education campaign.
(iii) There will predictably be a reluctance by many to accept the new controls since
there will be both an increase in the cost of buildings (as the quality of building
increases from its current very low base) and a control system which will preclude
much of the casual owner-builder approach which appears currently widespread
in Tonga.
28.   Implementation Strategy:
(i)  Prepare a wide-ranging public relations campaign with the specific aim of
introducing the new Code and its intended improvements to the public end users.
This campaign is likely to cover a limited Television public awareness campaign,
radio and the newsprint media. It is expected to specifically outline the intent and
benefits that improved building controls will have (e.g., building safety, cyclone



- 25 -                             Appendix 2
resistance, healthier living standards, etc.) and the implications that such controls
have in constraining current non-consented building practices.
(ii)  Preparation of public information handouts which outline the essential features of
the new Code, the range of performance objectives contained within the Code and
a clear outline of the new procedures (and penalties) required under the code for
obtaining a building consent and final occupancy certificate. These handouts
would be available to the public both at the building control unit and from town
officers.
(iii)  Organize a series of public meetings that aim to bring the requirements of the
Code to community level. Such meetings are expected to be convened by the local
building official and will include the distribution of the public information
handouts
29.   Procurement Requirements: A public relations specialist would be engaged to work in
conjunction with the technical advisor to the building control unit to develop a structured
program which brings the introduction of the Code to public notice. This work should be
implemented within the first year of the program so as to ensure public awareness of the
introduction of the new Code and the responsibilities within it. This phase of work is expected to
extend over 2 months.
B.3.4 Guidelines on Retrofitting of Existing Houses
30.   Scope: Development of guidelines describing how to retrofit existing houses to improve
their resistance to natural hazards such as cyclone and earthquake attack.
31.   Issues:
(i)  With the successful implementation of the new Code, buildings of the future will
be assured of attaining a reasonable level of safety to safeguard against collapse
during both cyclonic wind storms or under severe earthquakes. However the
resistance of the current building stock to such events is highly doubtful. Yet
much of this stock will continue to be used for the next 20 to 50 years.
(ii)  Providing a degree of assured resistance to rare, extreme events is possible in
many cases and generally at costs which are a small fraction of the reinstatement
cost of those buildings once they have been damaged.
(iii)  While retrofitting of existing buildings often does not attain the same level of
resistance as can be expected from a new building, it has been found to be
economically feasible to retrofit buildings to obtain a moderate degree of assured
resistance against severe wind or earthquake attack.
32.   Implementation Strategy:
(i)  Home owners or occupants who intend to renovate or restore buildings to a higher
level of wind or earthquake resistance would give notice of this intent to the
building control unit. A representative from the unit would, in consultation with



- 26 -                            Appendix 2
the owner or their building advisor, determine a suitable course of action
appropriate for the specific building being considered. (Note there will be
instances where the current state or condition of the building or its particular plan
layout is not appropriate for retrofitting and such actions are not to be
recommended.) Once the retrofit strategy is agreed, a details of the retrofit
procedures would be developed. Upon completion a final inspection would be
required to verify the repairs have been completed as specified.
(ii)  Guidelines would be prepared outlining the principles of both cyclone and
earthquake resistant house design. The guidelines would include a set of common
retrofit measures which can be employed for different types of houses.
33.    Procurement Requirements: A structural engineering specialist would be engaged to
prepare suitable guidelines for assessing retrofit techniques for typical housing systems. This
work should be implemented with urgency if the schedule for enactment of the Code is to be
met. The work is expected to extend over 2 months.



- 27 -                             Appendix 3
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
EMERGENCY AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Background on the Existing ERM approach and structure
1 .   TC Waka severely tested the disaster response capability of the Tongan authorities as no
emergency has done since TC Isaac 20 years ago in 1982, or since the magnitude 7.2 earthquake,
25 years ago in 1977. It destroyed or seriously damaged a minimum of 20%, and perhaps as
much as 35%, of the housing stock in the Vava'u Division, as well as seriously affecting the
Niuas Division.
2.    Although, coincidentally, moves were already underway to legislate for building codes in
Tonga, TC Waka served to underline the generally poor quality of buildings in Tonga and the
lack of awareness, and control, of building standards.
3.    The existing disaster management mechanism of Tonga was found to be slow in
responding (lack of resources and an inadequate authority structure were cited amongst other
reasons), to the extent that the function was subsumed under a special body set up for the
disaster.
4.    TC Waka was a typical of the infrequent, fast-onset hazards common across the Pacific
region - the recurrence interval of these hazards for each particular country is generally long
enough so that preparedness tends to deteriorate between events, but short enough so that several
such impacts might be felt within the useful lifetime of a given building. The impacts of disasters
of this size are guaranteed to cause a shock to the struggling national economies of Pacific Island
Countries.
Appraisal of TC Waka damage by SOPAC
5.    The South Pacific Geoscience Commission (SOPAC carried out an appraisal of damage
on Vava'u island in order to analyse the effect of TC Waka on typical Tongan building stock,
and to use the resulting model to predict damage from future cyclones (see details description of
appraisal in Appendix ). The appraisal logged 685 buildings and assessed the degree of damage.
Of the 685 structures, 43% suffered only light damage while the remainder lost at least part of
their roof or worse. Although the survey was not exhaustive and did not identify every damaged
building on the mainland of Vava'u, it provided a very large sample. 82% of the buildings were
classified as households, while the remaining 18% were distributed over12 other classifications,
as shown in Table 1. Of the 685 damaged buildings inspected and logged, 274 buildings (or
40%) had a floor area of less than 50 m . Of these small buildings, 152 (or 55%) had suffered
significant damage (CDV > 0. 0) during TC Waka.



- 28 -                                  Appendix 3
Table 1: Damaged buildings in Vava'u classified by main use
Main Use            No.         %
public safety                   1        0.1
depot/garage                    I        0.1
accommodation                   2        0.3
health services                 2        0.3
industry                        4        0.6
public service                  5        0.7
other                           9        1.3
flats                          12        1.8
commercial                     14        2.0
education                      14        2.0
community facility             15        2.2
church                         45        6.6
house                         561       81.9
Total                         685
Table 2: Level of Damage, by Building Type
A       B      C       D      No.     %
1.00  Collapse      0      0      37     13      50      7
0.75  Severe        0      3      19      3      25       4
0.40  Heavy         0     26      52      1      79      12
0.10  Moderate      0     73     164      2     239      35
0.02  Light        11    127     152      2     292      43
Total        11     229     424     21     685     100
6.     While undertaking this survey, SOPAC observed that the rigid coordinates of the country
maps are conflicting with the World Geodetic System as established by precision geographic
positioning system (GPS) reference points. New maps and map products are needed to reconcile
this conflict.
7.     The inter-relationship between the Central Damage Value and wind loading class
indicates that all of the total collapses occurred in the lowest wind loading Class D, and that only
light damage occurred in Class A buildings, as might be expected. The greatest losses were
among the Class C wooden bungalows where 272 (or 40% of the total) of the buildings suffered
significant damage.
Current situation in Tonga and basis for recommending changes
8.     Despite the ongoing and recently completed projects, Tonga still remains at some
distance from achieving the objective of an integrated and effective national risk management
system. Because of the infrequency of large natural disasters, NDMO offices in the Pacific
region are rarely afforded the status, authority or resources for operation or training to be able to
effectively handle a quick-onset disaster. Depending on the point of view, this might be
considered as under-resourcing, or alternatively, might reflect realistic risk-prioritisation and



- 29 -                            Appendix 3
risk-acceptance, and may or may not be viewed as a valid approach given the limited means
available within Tonga. Following the risk management process through would more clearly
define the issues and assist the Government to prioritise the provision of capability to the NDMO
to respond to disasters.
Current hazard and risk mitigation environment in Tonga
9.    There are several activities relating to disaster and risk mitigation currently underway in
Tonga. Activities under the CERM Project would complement and perhaps augment these
parallel activities.
10.   The SOPAC Pacific Cities program was initiated in 1996 in five of the highest risk
capitals of the Pacific, including Nuku'alofa, and is currently active. The program is
concentrated specifically in the cities of the Pacific, based on the need to bring about the greatest
benefit for the most people. The methodologies established by that program 6 years ago are
fundamental to the type of solutions being proposed in the CERMP, albeit on a wider
geographical basis. The World Bank successfully demonstrated the success of scaling up such a
concept in the recent coastal hazards project in Samoa.
11.   Pacific Cities uses a risk-GIS (Geographic Information System) approach to facilitate a
quantitative assessment of risk in Tonga - the impact and frequency of hazards on the populace,
infrastructure and economy. The program is based on establishing a database which not only
brings up-to-date all of the existing information related to risk management, but also becomes
the foundation for accumulating information from that day onward. The concept of keeping
records, which is critical to taking past lessons on disasters forward into the future, has been
greatly underplayed in the past in Tonga. Moreover, the database that is established is geo-
referenced, giving each record a three-dimensional location on a common, world-wide reference
system. The advantages of this are two-fold: it then becomes possible to interact between
databases from different areas with queries (for example, how many people live in the area of
highest potential cyclonic wind speed?), and by using the world-wide satellite GPS, it becomes a
simple matter to relocate on a given reference point and check or add information to the
database. The benefit of such a system is that information accumulates in the one place and is not
lost to the system, is easily stored, readily accessible, and readily compared with other
information at the same and different locations, and easily manipulated to provide answers to
pressing problems.
12.   The SOPAC Disaster Management Unit (DMU) Project addresses the wider problem of
instituting a system of risk management in Tonga on a national basis. It is two-thirds completed
for the current three-year cycle with an application for extension into a second cycle currently
underway. The objective of the DMU is to reduce the compound risks of natural, human
induced, technological and environmental hazards through risk management; and to encourage
the development of an efficient response and recovery process.
13.    The DMU project is working, through the guidelines of the Australia and New Zealand
Standard on Risk Management (AS/NZS Standard 4630), to implement a comprehensive hazard
and risk management system (CHARM) in its member countries. Recently, the project has
concentrated its resources on four countries, which include Tonga. The DMU project aims to



- 30 -                            Appendix 3
institute a national risk management culture at all levels, across all arms of Government and all
concerned communities in Tonga. The DMU program currently underway is focussed on closing
the performance gap in 6 discrete areas:
* National Disaster/Risk Management Legislation, Policy and Planning Arrangements
* Capacity of the National Disaster Management Office
* Public Awareness
* Professional Development
* Comprehensive Hazard and Risk Management (CHARM)
* Risk Reduction Support Programs and Systems
An important part of this process has been supporting and bolstering the development of the
National Disaster Management Office (NDMO). This task has been approached, within the
implied limits set by the Government, based on the status, authority and resources which are
allocated to the NDMO.
Component objective and scope
14.   The objectives proposed for the CERMP component are as follows:
(a)   Strengthened community resilience to natural disasters in Tonga
(b)   Increased capacity for national emergency and risk management and effective
response to future disasters
Description of the components and sub-components
15.   It is proposed that the component would focus on three outputs, i.e.:
(i)   Improved institutional framework and operational procedures for emergency and
risk management;
(ii)  Reduction of the risks of damage from natural hazards, through development and
implementation of a national risk mitigation strategy; and
(iii)  Establishment of a land and spatial information system to support emergency and
risk management and other national information needs.
Implementation plan
16.   The approach should follow the general principles of risk management as set out in the
Australia and New Zealand Standard on Risk Management (AS/NZS Standard 4630), i.e.:
Establish the context, identify, analyse and evaluate the risks, and with appropriate raising of
community awareness, set out to treat the risks with appropriate monitoring, and review the
procedures in place. A series of ten output activities have been identified to be implemented
under this component, as follows.



- 31 -                               Appendix 3
Output    I  Tonga Cyclone Hazard Model developed from analysis of TC Waka
Output   2   National risk mitigation strategy revised
Output   3   Effective national emergency and risk management system implemented
Output   4   National spatial geo-referencing system established
Output   5   Potential effects of major hazards assessed
Output   6   Community risk evaluated
Output   7   Building code implementation revised
Output   8   Community awareness raised
Output   9   Risk reduction plans prepared and implemented
Output   10 Progress monitored and reviewed
Output 1 addresses the immediate needs arising from the emergency of TC Waka. This event is
the stimulus for the project. Directly confronting the issues thrown up by Waka will help define a
framework for further action.
Output 2 sets the context of the problem facing Tonga. Here, assistance is provided to see the
national risk management strategy, already in the process of development, worked through to
finality. Output 3 puts the disaster management framework firmly in place to carry through the
risk strategy.
Before the risks to Tonga can be assessed and dealt with, the physical framework of a spatial
land management and reference system, Output 4, which includes geodetic surveying, aerial
photography and digital elevation models, must first be realised. On this basis, Output 5, the
development of a risk-GIS database and numerical modelling of hazards to identify frequencies
and impacts can then be achieved and the risks identified and analysed.
Evaluation of risk to the communities of Tonga (Output 6) can be realised only after the
quantitative effects of hazard impacts are analysed together with the elements at risk including
people, buildings, infrastructure and economy, and consultation is undertaken with the
communities of Tonga to identify treatment options.
Implementation of the building code provisions (Output 7) will be an important step in treating
and reducing the risk facing Tonga, while the preparation and implementation of risk reduction
plans at a divisional and district level (Output 9) will provide specific treatments for problems
identified in Output 6.
Output 8, community awareness is achieved through a variety of direct and indirect means as
the project progress, while regular monitoring and review of the project components will provide
continual feedback to the direction of the project (Output 10).
Implementation arrangements
17.   In order to keep the physical activity to a manageable size, some restrictions are
recommended on the area to be surveyed, photographed and modelled. The five administrative
Divisions are represented as well as the next five islands by population size as shown in Table 3.



- 32 -                                  Appendix 3
Table 3: Tonga Administrative Units, and Population Distribution
Island (Division)               Population    %       Cum %
Tongatapu                           66,586      68         68
Vava'u                              12,238      13         81
Eua                                  4,934       5         86
Lifuka (Ha'apai)                     2,966       3         89
Niuatoputapu (Niuas)                 1,161        I        90
5 next minor islands by population   4,349       4         94
Tonga group Total                   97,784
It is proposed that the work be undertaken through (i) consultancy services, working in
cooperation with SOPAC in order to achieve effective integration of institutional strengthening
in ERM; and (ii) contract for aerial survey, production of digital topographical maps, and
establishment of a land and spatial information system based on a geographic information
system.



- 33 -                                  Appendix 4
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
PROJECT COSTS
Table 1: Total Project Costs by Financiers
Financier     Local   Foreign    Total      %
(USD
million)
Government    0.46      0.00      0.46       7
IDA           0.66      5.19      5.85      93
Total         1.12      5.19      6.31     100
Tax = US$0.17 million
Table 2: Components by Cost Composition
Foreign           Local                Total
Component                          Exchange     Excl.     Duties    Amount      %
Taxes      and
_______________________________Taxes
1. Social Infrastructure Recovery     3.39       0.70      0.12      4.21      66.7
2. Emergency and Risk                 1.75       0.06      0.03       1.83     29.0
Management
3. Project Management                 0.05       0.19      0.02       0.27      4.3
TOTAL PROJECT                         5.19       0.95      0.17       6.31      100
Table 3: Expenditure Category by Cost Composition
Total
Category                   Local     Foreign   Amount         %
A. Civil Works             0.82       3.29       4.11      65.1
B. Goods                   0.02       0.40       0.42         7
C. Consultant Services
International consultant            1.47       1.47      23.4
Local consultant         0.21                  0.21       3.3
D. Training and workshops  0.03       0.01       0.04       0.7
E. Incremental Operating   0.04       0.02       0.06         1
Costs
TOTAL                      1.12       5.19       6.31       100



- 34 -                                   Appendix 4
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Component
Social        Emergency
Infrastructure    and Risk
Recovery and    Management
Risk          Capacity        Project
Expenditure Category              Mitigation       Building     Management     Total
Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                      .
Basic housing replacement           3.33                                         3.33
Community-based works /a            0.79                                         0.78
B. Goods                                             0.40           0.02          0.42
C. Consultant Services
International consultants           0.10            1.36           0.02           1.48
Local consultants                                   0.02           0.18          0.20
D. Training and Workshops                            0.04                         0.04
E. Incremental Operating Costs                                      0.06          0.06
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   4.21            1.82           0.26          6.31
Taxes                                0.13            0.02           0.02          0.17
Foreign Exchange                     3.39            1.75           0.05          5.19
/a Subproject grants for communities and individual property owners.
Table 5: Component Expenditures by Year
Component                         Totals Includin Contingencies
2002/03    2003/04    2004/05     Total
1. Social Infrastructure     3.60       0.41       0.20       4.21
Recovery
2. Emergency and Risk        0.69       0.73       0.41       1.83
Management Capacity
Building
3. Project Management        0.13       0.07       0.07       0.27
Total PROJECT COSTS        4.42       1.21       0.68       6.31



- 35 -                                  Appendix 4
Table 6: Expenditure Accounts by Year
Expenditure Category          2002/03    2003/04   2004/05   Total
Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Basic housing replacement        3.33                        3.33
Grants for Community-based       0.17      0.41      0.20    0.78
works /a
Subtotal Civil Works              3.50      0.41      0.20    4.11
B. Goods                          0.26      0.16      0.00    0.42
C. Consultant Services
International consultants        0.54      0.54      0.40     1.48
Local consultants                0.09      0.06      0.05    0.20
Subtotal Consultant Services      0.63      0.60      0.45     1.68
D. Training and Workshops         0.01      0.02      0.01    0.04
E. Incremental Operating Costs    0.02      0.02      0.02     0.06
TOTAL PROJECT COST                4.42      1.21      0.68     6.31
/a Subproject grants for communities and individual property owners.
Table 7: Estimated Disbursements
2002/03    2003/04   2004/05   Total
GOT                               0.44      0.01      0.01     0.46
IDA                               3.98      1.20      0.67     5.85
Total                             4.42      1.21      0.68     6.31



- 36 -                            Appendix 5
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
Financial Management
1.    The assessment of the Financial Management Specialist indicates the need to strengthen
the financial management system of the various implementing agencies, which could not be
addressed because of the emergency nature of this project. However, there is an on-going
Australian Aid-funded program for computerization of the accounting systems of the Ministries
of Finance and Health, and the Government has recently negotiated financial assistance from
ADB for the Economic and Public Sector Reform Program (EPSRP), with the objectives of
ensuring overall macroeconomic stability and enhancing private sector-led economic growth.
Among several advisory services and support for capacity building, the assistance addresses
financial management issues that are relevant to the World Bank's project, i.e., good governance
practices and strengthening the planning, monitoring and reporting capability of the ministries.
Any future involvement of the World Bank in this area would require a broader and an in-depth
review of the various on-going programs for strengthening of the financial management and
accounting systems in the country in order to be consistent with existing assistance.
Financial Management Arrangements
2.    A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for daily management,
monitoring and coordination of tasks under the Project. They will report progress on project
implementation on a monthly basis. The PMU will be supported by staff of the MOF, MOW and
MLSNR, and will be appointed on a full-time basis to monitor and supervise progress under the
project.
3.    The PMU, comprising a Project manager/procurement officer, finance officer/Project
accountant, and an administrative assistant will be located at the office of the Ministry of
Finance, which is responsible for coordinating the donor funds, as well as the Government
borrowings from various international agencies, i.e., EU, ADB and the World Bank. The PMU
will be directly responsible to the Project Coordination Committee, consisting of representatives
from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Works, the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural
Resources, Central Planning, the National Disaster Management Office and the Vava'u Disaster
Management Committee. The Project Coordination Committee will be established under the
Ministry of Finance.
4.    The Government has agreed to install an integrated financial management information
and accounting system that can generate the reporting information required to meet both
international accounting standards (IAS) and World Bank requirements. The FMS evaluated the
proposed system and confirmed that it meets the Bank's minimum requirements.



- 37 -                            Appendix 5
Project Accounting
5.    The Chart of Accounts for the project will comply with the International Accounting
Standards (IAS) for proper project financial management, to enable its system to show cost
categories or commitments by contract. The Chart of Accounts will conform to the classification
sources of funds and expenditures, as detailed in the project documents (Operational Manual and
Memorandum and Recommendation and Technical Annex Documents). The PMU will be in
charge of project financial management, including accounting functions and reporting activities,
and will utilize its current computerized accounting system that will suit the project's
components. The system will facilitate reporting of financial transactions and enable the
Accountant to maintain accounting records, including receipt and disbursement of funds and
commitments and accruals, in a timely manner. Some of the basic accounting records included
in the computerized accounting system are the cash journal, bill register, contractors/consultants
ledger, etc. The availability of data from the computerized accounting system will help the PMU
focus on meeting project management information needs. And internal control system will be
built into the system to clearly define and document the accounting methodology to be followed
for recording individual project related transactions.
6.    All government accounts are maintained uniformly on a cash basis. For the Special
Account, the chart of accounts will be modified to comply with the International Accounting
Standards (IAS) for proper project financial management, to enable its system to show cost
categories or commitments by contract. The PMU will use accrual accounting. The financial
statements will be subject to external audits, which are to be carried out by the private local
auditors.
Staffing and Training
7.    The coordinating team will have two key staff, the Project Manager/Procurement
Specialist and the Finance Officer/IT staff.
Financial Management
8.    A Project Operational Manual (POM) will be developed for the Project; the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) would be developed to suit the Project and produced within three
months after the Project has been declared effective. The POM encompasses all levels of project
financial management, procurement and administration It includes accounting system and
internal control mechanisms including information flow and flow of documents, chart of
accounts, organization and staffing for both operations and financial management functions,
procurement procedures, procedures for cash and asset management, budgeting, accounting and
auditing policies and procedures used for the project, auditing arrangements, and terms of
reference of auditors.
Internal Controls
9.    The internal control starts with clearly written administrative, accounting and operational
procedures that define levels of authority and responsibilities, ensure an orderly and efficient



- 38 -                            Appendix 5
procurement and payment process, and properly record and safeguard project related assets and
resources. Specifically, this includes:
* a budgeting system with regular monitoring of financial performance;
* a process to identify and track sources of project financing, including the flow of funds
and
* the timing of such flows (whether direct to the project or through government entities);
* a suitable authorization process for award of contracts and purchase of equipment and
* supplies, including documentation procedures, which are in compliance with IDA
policies;
* an appropriate segregation of duties and responsibilities, including invoice processing,
* accounting duties and payment functions;
* the design and use of standard forms for recording and controlling financial transactions;
* a manual of accounting policies and procedures, which addresses all aspects of financial
* management, including staffing arrangements and responsibilities, the flow of funds and
funds management, internal control procedures, the accounting system and software used,
reporting formats and procedures, and storage of financial documents; and
* arrangements for storing projects documents and restricting access to authorized
personnel only.
Disbursement
10.   The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at the National Reserve
Bank of Tonga, which is capable of providing efficient payment and clearing facilities. IDA
would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$585,000. Initially, the allocation
would be limited to US$200,000, until disbursements have reached SDR2.0 million, at which
time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. The SA will be maintained by the
coordinating team. These amounts would be used only for the purposes of the project to cover
its project expenditures. Disbursements under the credit will be made on a transactional basis,
using SOEs, for (a) grants, (b) goods, (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, (d) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training and
workshops, and (f) incremental operating costs. In addition, the Borrower will open a Local
Project Account in the Central Bank, for depositing the GOT's counterpart financing
contributions for the project
Supporting documents will be maintained by the coordinating team, and made available to the
IDA's visiting missions and auditors as required. The coordinating team will also prepare and
provide to IDA its quarterly reports on implementation progress along with FMRs in formats
agreed with the IDA. The Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for monitoring
purposes. These arrangements are discussed in detail in Appendix 6.
11.   Financial Reporting. The PMU will coordinate the project activities; it would be
responsible for consolidating and processing all reimbursement claims, as well as the submission
of quarterly FMRs. The Accountant would be responsible for producing a full array of financial
statements and reports, including sources and uses of funds, balance sheets and cashflow



-39 -                             Appendix 5
statements. In addition, a full set of quarterly FMRs, as listed below, using accrual model will be
generated from the computerized accounting system for the quarter beginning December 2002,
and will be submitted to IDA quarterly.
*  Sources and application of funds (by components and expenditures categories) and key
*  physical parameters and unit rates for selected key items;
*  Expenditures by disbursement categories (Goods and Works, Consultant's Services); and
*  Procurement process monitoring (Goods and Works; Consultant's Services). The
formats of
* these reports would be agreed upon with IDA and would be incorporated in the OM.
12.   Quarterly FMRs should correspond with the annual financial statements that will be
audited and submitted to IDA. In addition, monthly bank reconciliation statements for the
Special Accounts would be prepared.
Audit
13.   Project accounts will be audited on a semi-annual and annual basis in accordance with
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA. The auditor's
report will be made available to the IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year for the
annual audit and within 45 days of the closing of the books for the semi-annual audit, every
August 15 and February 15. The audits will include a separate opinion on the SOE and the
Special Account. The first audit (for the.financial year 2002) would include a review and
commentary on the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of 2002's financial
statements. A qualified, independent external auditor, acceptable to the IDA, would be
appointed prior to project effectiveness. The costs of annual audits will be met from the proceeds
of the Credit.



-40 -                              Appendix 6
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Capacity Assessment And Action Plan
1.    Summary ofprocurement capacity assessment. A Country Procurement Assessment
Review has never been conducted for this country so this assessment has considered the national
legal framework as well as the country procurement capacity. A World Bank procurement
accredited staff (PAS) carried out the assessment of the implementing agencies. The assessment
(available in the project files) was discussed and agreed with the implementing agencies. The
main findings are as follows.
2.    Overall capacity of the implementing agencies involved with procurement is weak and
the associated risks are in the high category. They have no prior World Bank procurement
experience, but some limited procurement capacity with other donor agencies (e.g., ADB,
AusAID and NZODA) was present within the Central Planning Department. Therefore, in order
to mitigate the risk and ensure timely procurement of civil works, a Project Manager/
Procurement Officer will be hired. He/she will have the overall responsibility for procurement
for the CERM Project. The PM will have several years experience with World Bank financed
projects. The PM will add capacity to the implementing agencies by conducting a procurement/
implementation workshop, and reviewing all procurement under the project. After negotiations,
but before the PM is appointed, several start-up procurement documents including TORs for
Project Management Unit (PMU) officers, the ICB bidding documents for basic housing civil
works and the hiring of supervision consultant, will be prepared by an individual consultant with
substantial Bank civil works procurement experience.
3.    There is no national procurement law 'per se' and no NCB is proposed under the Project,
therefore there is no risk of inconsistency of local procurement procedures with World Bank
Guidelines.
Procurement Reporting Requirements
4.    Procurement reporting will be presented in the FMS, described in the Financial Annex,
produced and submitted to the Bank in the quarterly FMR. Reporting procedures will be
established in the Project Operating Manual (POM).
Risk Assessment and Prior Review Thresholds
5.    The risk assessment of procurement implementation for this Project is considered high
and in consideration of the mitigation measures cited above the thresholds were set accordingly.
The prior review thresholds are commiserate with the level of risk.



- 41 -                             Appendix 6
Procurement Guidelines
6.    The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, Revised January
and August I 996, September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement of services will be done in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997, and January 1999).
Standard Bidding Documents
7.    The BarLk's standard bidding documents for goods and works, standard evaluation reports
and stadard request for proposals for consulting services will be used under the Project. A
model ouotation solicitation form and draft contract for civil works and goods will be provided
in the Ch'I` f-or procurement to be carried out through community works subprojects.
Advertisement
8.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations
Development Business in April 2002, announcing all procurement of works on the basis of
internationai Competitive Bidding (ICB) and major consulting services to be procured under the
project. Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) in Development Business will also be required for
all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000 per contract. SPN will be published along
with the GPN for the basic housing civil works construction using modified ICB procedures, in
accordance with the provisions in paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines.
Impiementation Arrangements
9.    The government will establish a Project Coordination Committee (PCC), chaired by the
Secretary of Finance. The PCC is composed of representatives of Ministry of Works (MOW),
MLSNR, Central Planning, NDMO and VDMC. The PCC will be responsible for the overall
coordination of project implementation. A Project Management Unit (PMU) under the PCC will
be responsibte for the day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of the project
act:vities. The PMU will be located within the Ministry of Finance, and comprise a Project
Manager/Procurement Officer, Finance Officer, Accountant and Administrative Assistant. There
are three implementing agencies - MOF, MOW and MLSNR - that will implement the
respective components under the project. Under the guidance of the PMU the implementing
agencies will be responsible for project procurement, including preparation of bidding
documents, evaluation and contract award, inspection and certification of completion of works,
and management of contracts. The PMU will be responsible for project accounting and financial
management in cooperation with the Treasury Department, Ministry of Finance.



- 42 -                            Appendix 6
Assessment Of Agency's Capacity To Implement Procurement
10.   The appraisal mission carried out a capacity assessment of 5 agencies in four ministries
(Reference Assessment Report on file). There is no national policy and/or procedure manual for
public procurement, therefore none of the ministries has a written policy for procurement and
only some of these agencies have recent experience in implementing projects financed either by
the World Bank, i.e. MOF in early 1990, or Asian Development Bank or both. In general, the
assessment of project implementation under these agencies reports ad hoc procurement
procedures and some significant delays. Based on the risk assessment and the findings of the
procurement capacity of the implementing agencies the thresholds for prior review and
supervision plan have been set accordingly and are presented in Table C. A consultant with
expertise in World Bank procurement procedures will be appointed to the PMU in part to
supervise the preparation and process of procurements under the Project by the line Ministries.
All agencies will need to be strengthened by immediate training in World Bank procurement and
reporting requirements and procedures. The PMU Project Manager will conduct a procurement
workshop for the implementing-agencies and provide continued support throughout the Project.
Procurement Methods
Procurement of Civil Works (US$4. 11 million approximately)
11.   International Competitive Bidding (ICB). One civil works contract for cyclone recovery
houses will follow the Modified ICB procedures per paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the guidelines.
The total IDA financing is estimated at about US$3.33 million.
12.   Community-Based Works. A firm will be selected to supervise civil works subprojects
for subcomponent A.3: retrofitting of existing houses and enterprises, and to provide technical
advice for A.2: rehabilitation of community buildings. The community-based works are
budgeted at US$750,000 in aggregate for about 440 subprojects and the supervision services are
estimated at approximately US$30,000. The firm will be selected competitively based on
consultant qualifications. The selection criteria, supervision and monitoring responsibilities,
procurement procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines' national shopping procedures.
All grant payments for the works would be made directly by the PMU.
Procurement of goods (US$0.42 million approximately)
13.   ICB and/or Limited International Bidding (LIB). Procurement of goods, i.e. Aerial
Photography and Map Products, may be procured through LIB at an estimated cost of
US$400,000.
National Shopping (NS). Procurement of computer and office equipment, office furniture and
supplies for the PMU will be through National Shopping procedures using due diligence as
outlined in the Guidelines. The aggregate amount through national shopping procedures does
not exceed US$50,000.



- 43 -                            Appendix 6
Consulting services (US$1.68 million approximately)
15.   Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). This method will be used for consulting
firms to assist in (i) strengthening emergency and risk management and (ii) civil works
supervision. Aggregate cost estimated about US$1.3 million.
16.   Quality Based Selection (QBS). A consulting firm to assist with improving building
standards and provide training for the building industry will be procured through QBS, with an
estimated cost of less than US$160,000.
17.   Consultant Qualifications (Co). Selection of a firm or NGO for the public information
and education program, and of an auditing firm, will be made using CQ methods, for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each.
18.   Single-Source Selection (SSS). Given the emergency nature of this project, the financial
management system for the project needs to be established before the main activities begin. An
international firm will be contracted to assist in setting up the financial management system and
to provide training to the staff in the PMU.
19.   Individual Consultants. An individual consultant for project management and
procurement, will be hired to head the PMU with the over all responsibility of coordination of
project implementation and strengthening the capacity of three project implementation agencies.
Another individual will be hired as Project Accountant with the overall responsibility to maintain
Project accounts. Selection of individual consultants will be carried out in accordance with the
provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers.
Training and Workshops (TJS$0. 04 million approximately).
20.   Implementation of annual training programs including TORs, selection of trainees, and
venues will be subject to Bank's prior approval. Annual training work programs will be
submitted for Bank's approval.
Incremental Operating Costs (US$0. 06 million approximately).
21.   Incremental operating costs consist of audit services using consultant qualifications
selection method, communication expenses and postage, small office consumables, supervision
activity expenses, i.e., per diem and in-country travel. All will be availed of in accordance with
government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Advance Procurement And Retroactive Financing
22.   Given the nature of the emergency rehabilitation project, selection of project management
and implementation personnel, bidding for civil works and request for quotations for additional
office equipment will need to be carried out immediately. All procurement activities, including
procurement of goods, works, and consulting services must comply with the Bank's procurement



-44-                                       Appendix 6
guidelines and must follow the procurement procedures, including the prior review requirements
in the Credit agreement. 'Te retroactive financing of up to US$1.17 million (20% of the
proposed Credit amount) will be available for expenditures incurred as of 16 April 2002.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrargements (in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method           Total
Cost
lExpenditure Category    :CB        National     Other
Shopping
Civil works              3.33                    0.78        4.11
(3.00)                   (0.70)     (3.70)
Goods                    0.40       0.02                     0.42
(0.38)     (0.02)                   (0.40)
Consultants Services                              1.68       1.68
(1.66)     (1.66)
Training and Workshops                           0.04        0.04
(0.04)     (0.04)
Incremental Operating                            0.06        0.06
Cost                                             (0.05)      (0.05)
Totai                 3.73        0.02         2.56       6.31
(3.38)     (0.02)        (2.45)     (5.85)
1/ All costs include contingencies and figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit.
Other: including community participation, various consultant selection methods, and acceptable government administrative
procedures for training and incremental operating costs.
Table B: Consu.lta,t Selection Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost (including contingencies)
Consultant Services  QC3S     QB5       CQ       SS      Other     Total
Expenditure Ca.tegor           QQO
A. Firms             1.30      0.16     0.02     0.02    0.00      1.50
B. Individuals       -         -        -        -       0.18      0. 18
Total                1.30     0.16      0.02     0.02    0.18      1.68
Note:
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS   = Quality Based Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS    = Single-Source Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines).
.7           7-       Ad _ - -;. b lvl   anH ll
23.     The procurement plan for the project, including all major civil works contracts,
procurement of goods, and consulting services, procurement methods, time frames for each
conltract, and estimated amount was discussed and agreed during negotiation. The draft Termns of
lReference for consulting contracts and the draft technical specifications for goods and the draft
selection criteria for subprojects under each component were also discussed and agreed during
negotiations by the implementing agencies and tecl-bnical specialists in the Bank's appraisal



- 45 -                              Appendix 6
mission. This procurement plan will be updated and sent to the 3 ar'k together with the project
progress report. The draft Operational Manual outline was reviewed during negotiadions. The
final Operational Manual is subject to review and approval by the Bank before its adoDtion by
the borrower as a condition for project effectiveness.
Prior Review Thiresholds
24.   All goods and works contracts regardless of precurement method will be sub3ect to poir
review by the Bank. The prior review for goods and works contracts includes: complete draft
bidding document, bid evaluation report and draft contract. Consultant contracts estimated to
cost over US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 .or individuals, and all TORs will be subject to
prior revlew by the Bank. All other conracts and the Statement of 3xpenditures wI i se subject
to post reviews. The Bank's supervisior missioons wilE review two out of Eve contacts, whiclh,
are subject to post reviews.
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement I Let'Acds and Prior Review
Contracts Suoject to
Contract Value                          Prior Re vev Es: .-.Total
Expenditure        (Thresho'd)        Procurement          Value Subject to ?rior Review
Category           (US$ thoousands)   Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works           All regardless of  ICB                             3.33
(a) Basic Housing  value
(b) Community    All regard'ess of  Community                        .78
Building and   value              Pazticipat;on Schemes
Retrofitting                     through a NGO contract
2. Goods           >US$20,000        -CB                              0.25
US$20,000          NS                              3.17
3. Services        >US$100,000        QcBS3QBS/CQ/SS                  1.50
<US$50,000         Individual                      $.18
All TORs, regardless
of value
4. Training and    Annual training    Other                           0.04
Workshops        program
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                     6.25 (99%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procuzement 5s       missions proposed: One supe;visiona mission every 6
months (a procurement staff will be included in the svpervision mission to carry outpost-
reviews).



- 46 -                             Appendix 7
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
Background
1.    The proposed Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management project aims to assist the
Government of Tonga to respond to the damage caused by the Tropical Cyclone Waka through
measures aimed at replacement of social infrastructure, and risk management. The main civil
works component in the project consists of replacing damaged housing and community
buildings, as well as retrofitting residential and small enterprise structures.
2.    Since the project is an emergency recovery one, it has not required a full environmental
assessment (ref. OP 8.50). The IDA review of the project concept concluded that the project is
an environmental category B project which is not likely to have significant environmental
consequences. Nevertheless, it is necessary to take into account environmental and social issues
during the planning, design and implementation of project components to ensure that they meet
the Bank's environmental and social safeguard requirements.
Environmental issues
3.    The magnitude of adverse impacts is expected to be minor. Potentially negative
environmental issues are primarily associated with the replacement housing component, and the
retrofitting of residential and small enterprise structures. The types of environmental issues that
may arise relate to land clearing for site preparation, movement of workers, equipment, and
materials to and from project site, and proper disposal of debris. Given the small scale of works
in each location, these impacts are expected to be minimal. National guidelines for handling
environmental issues are contained in a Cabinet decision from 1987; an Environmental Impact
Assessment bill is under review by government before submission to Parliament. The existing
guidelines do not appear to include any direct policy on EIA for housing.
4.    Compliance with environmental requirements of the Bank will be achieved through the
contractual arrangements with civil works contractors. Civil works contracts for housing
reconstruction works will include special technical provisions specifying good environmental
practices. The supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring that environmental
requirements as contractually stipulated are followed.
Social issues
5.    The social impacts of the cyclone have been widespread, roughly 1,500 households or
under 50 per cent of the Vava'u population was affected by TC Waka. Approximately 500
households (about 19%), had their houses completely damaged. A rapid assessment of the
affected areas shows that the majority of those living in temporary shelters, or with neighbors
and relatives are from socio-economic groups least able to cope with loss of home and income.



-47 -                             Appendix 7
The affected households tend to be large in size, 6-8 household members, and are engaged
primarily in subsistence agriculture and fishing. Cash incomes are low and tentatively in the
range of TOP 1,200 to TOP 2,000 per year per household. Financial capacity to re-build homes
to cyclone resistant standards is therefore considered to be limited.
6.    It appears that women headed households are disproportionately represented in those
without housing (to be verified by the detailed survey); in some cases women whose houses were
not damaged by the cyclone have had to give up their house to a male relative who lost his
house. It is therefore anticipated that the replacement of housing under the project will have
positive social impacts.
7.    Participation: Civil society has been extensively consulted during the preparation of the
project. The project design has been presented to and reviewed by NGO representatives and
local church organizations; views and information were obtained from local tradesmen, builders,
and private commercial banks. Continued involvement of the beneficiaries is built into the
project implementation arrangements.
8.    The update of the damage assessment and eligibility list would be completed by a team
composed of the MOW, the town official, and the local Church minister. The update team will
also gather detailed household information which provides a baseline socio-economic status of
the affected households. The list of households selected for participation, based on agreed
eligibility criteria, in the project will be presented to and discussed with communities by a
representative from the Governor's office. The beneficiary lists will also be posted in community
halls, churches, schools, and the governor's office. Further, implementation of the community
buildings and retrofitting sub-components and the awareness campaign would be monitored by a
local NGO.
Dealing with potential land tenure issues
9.    Most of the activities under the project are restoration works and do not therefore require
any new land acquisition from local land owners, or alienation of land under different tenure
systems. Since no new land, which is being otherwise used by anyone for residence or
cultivation, would be acquired or alienated, there would be no clearance of squatters or
encroachers.
10.   Bank guidelines require that households establish ownership or usufruct to the land where
the houses will be rebuilt. According to the 1996 population census, 80 percent of households
own the houses they live in, about 13 percent have houses provided free of charge, and
approximately 6 percent rent or have other tenure arrangements. All land in the kingdom is the
property of the Crown. Hereditary estates are held by the nobles and matapules (estate
spokesmen) who can allot or lease land to landholders. Though all Tongan males are entitled to
land, as per the 1927 Land Act, in reality, continued sub-division of land is not possible and not
all Tongan males and households have such allotments. Due to the practice of land and estate
holders allowing occupancy and use of land through "words", that is, verbal commitments, there
may be some beneficiaries who lack documentation establishing the right to use of the land they
occupy. Women are more likely to be dis-franchised than men as hereditary land passes through



- 48 -                             Appendix 7
sons; women can at best lease land or have a land "permit" for use of the land during their
lifetime.
11.   To ensure that land required for the project is legally available, and to ensure that current
occupants are not dispossessed of the houses provided under the project, all beneficiaries would
be required to produce one of the following documentary evidence establishing ownership or
usufruct:
* Deed of grant (registration)
* Deed of lease
* Certificate of apportionment (blue form) from the MLSNR
* letter from the land owner in favor of the current occupant, establishing continued
occupation of the land and replacement house. The letter can be either witnessed by a
third party or duly sworn affidavit before a Magistrate or Commissioner of Oaths.



-49 -                                         Appendix 7
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: April 17, 2002
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
L.A. 1. Project Statistics
COUNTRY: Tonga                                    PROJECT ID: P075171
PROJECT: Cyclone Emergency Recovery and           TTL: William D. 0. Paterson
Management Project
APPRAISAL DATE: April 16, 2002                    IBRD AMOUNT ($m):
BOARD DATE: May 30, 2002                          IDA AMOUNT ($m): $5.85 million
MANAGING UNIT: EASTR                               SECTOR: Other Public Sector
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: ERL                           STATUS: Appraisal
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS)
(a) To assist in recovering the standard of living of the population affected by the cyclone through the rehabilitation of
the social infrastructure in selected affected areas and to improve its resilience to natural hazards. (b) To strengthen
and upgrade the emergency and risk management capacity of the country - in risk reduction, readiness, response and
recovery phases - through the improvement of its nationwide resilience to natural hazards, including the effects of
climate change.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS)
A.      Social Infrastructure Recovery (USD 4.2 m): (i) Construction and supervision of 400 units of low-cost
cyclone-resistant housing in the Vava'u group, Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu islands to replace destroyed or damaged
houses of households with inadequate financial capacity to rebuild; (ii) Reconstruction of community facilities in about
40 villages in Vava'u, Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu islands, including provision of grants; (iii) Reconstruction or
retrofitting of residential and small-medium enterprise buildings (does not include manufacturing/industrial facilities)
nationwide for improved hazard resistance, including provision of grants.
B.      Emergency and Risk Management Capacity Building (USD 1.8 m): (i) Strengthening emergency and risk
management processes through advisory services and community training, development and implementation of risk
mitigation strategy for natural hazards and climate change; and awareness-raising; (ii) modem land and spatial
information system to support emergency programs and other sectors; (iii) improvement of building standards through
improved codes and training.
C.      Project Management (USD 0.27 m):    Management and coordination of Project activities, financial
management and accounting, procurement, monitoring and reporting, and carrying out of audits.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social characteristics of
the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural habitats,
or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The cyclone-affected area comprises the northernmost island groups of Vava 'u, Niuafo 'ou and Niuatoputapu. The
affected population totaled about 26,500 persons or 4,600 households.
Bl. Check Environmental Classification A [7, B [X), C[1, Fl [, TBD [7
Comments:   Since the project is an emergency recovery one, it has not required a full environmental assessment.
The IDA review of the project concept concluded that the project is an environmental category B project which is not
likely to have significant environmental consequences. Nevertheless, it is necessary to take into account environmental
and social issues during the planning, design and implementation of project components to ensure that they meet the
Bank's environmental and social sg uard requirements.
C Safegoard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
Click on Policy name for brief summary of objectives, triggers and requirements
Click on Policy reference number for fuill policy
I.C I. Table on applicability                                     Yes     No      TBD
Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4. 01)                         [xI 7    1 n    r
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                             [ 1     [X I    I i
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                      I      I x I    H 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                       [        X I 
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              f ]_[X ]I_              _]
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                [                  _ [X ]I [ ]



- 50 -                                        Appendix 7
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      [ 1     [X I    [I 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     [L      [XI     [I
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                        [1      [X]     [ I
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)               []      [Xl [I
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
II.D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available, describe
steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe any
potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental
The magnitude of adverse environmental impacts is expected to be minor. Potentially negative environmental issues
are primarily associated with the replacement housing component, and the retrofitting of residential and small
enterprise structures. The types of environmental issues that may arise relate to land clearing for site preparation,
movement of workers, equipment, and materials to and from project site, and proper disposal of debris. Given the
small scale of works in each location, these impacts are expected to be minimal. National guidelines for handling
environmental issues are contained in a Cabinet decision from 1987; an Environmental Impact Assessment bill is under
review by government before submission to Parliament. The existing guidelines do not appear to include any direct
policy on EIA for housing.
Social:
The social impacts of the cyclone have been widespread, roughly 1,500 households or under 50 per cent of the Vava'u
population was affected by TC Waka. Approximately 500 households (about 19%), had their houses completely
damaged. A rapid assessment of the affected areas shows that the majority of those living in temporary shelters, or
with neighbors and relatives are from socio-economic groups least able to cope with loss of home and income. The
affected households tend to be large in size, 6-11 household members, and are engaged primarily in subsistence
agriculture and fishing. Cash incomes are low and tentatively in the range of TOP 300 to TOP 2,000 per year per
household. Financial capacity to re-build homes to cyclone resistant standards is therefore considered to be extremely
limited. It appears that women headed households are disproportionately represented in those without housing (to be
verified by the detailed survey); in some cases women whose houses were not damaged by the cyclone have had to give
up their house to a male relative who lost his house. It is therefore anticipated that the replacement of housing under the
project will have strong positive social impacts.
Land:
The activities under the project are restoration works and do not therefore require any new land acquisition from local
land owners, or alienation of land under different tenure systems. Since no new land, which is being otherwise used by
anyone for residence or cultivation is expected to be acquired or alienated, there is no clearance of squatters or
encroachers involved. Bank guidelines require that households establish ownership or usufruct to the land where the
houses will be rebuilt. According to the 1996 population census, 80 percent of households own the houses they live in,
about 13 percent have houses provided free of charge, and approximately 6 percent rent or have other tenure
arrangements. All land in the kingdom is the property of the Crown. Hereditary estates are held by the nobles and
matapules (estate spokesmen) who can allot or lease land to landholders. Though all Tongan males are entitled to land,
as per the 1927 Land Act, in reality, continued sub-division of land is not possible and not all Tongan males and
households have such allotments. Due to the practice of land and estate holders allowing occupancy and use of land
through "words", that is, verbal commitments, there may be some beneficiaries who lack documentation establishing
the right to use of the land they occupy. Women are more likely to be dis-franchised than men as hereditary land
passes through sons; women can at best lease land or have a land "permit" for use of the land during their lifetime.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or due to
multiple project component.
Cumulative impacts due to secure weatherproof housing for these largely poor households are expected to be positive,
resulting in better managed village environment.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area
No adverse long-term impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
Not required.
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas



- 51 -                                         Appendix 7
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental
Compliance with environmental requirements of the Bank will be achieved through the contractual arrangements with
civil works contractors. Civil works contracts for housing reconstruction works will include special technical
provisions specifying good environmental practices. The supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring that
environmental requirements as contractually stipulated are followed.
Social:
The update of the damage assessment and eligibility list would be completed by a team composed of the Ministry of
Works, the town official, and civil society representative, e.g., local Church minister. The update team will also gather
detailed household information which provides a baseline socio-economic status of the affected households. The list of
households selected for participation, based on agreed eligibility criteria, in the project will be presented to and
discussed with communities by a representative from the Governor's office. The beneficiary lists will also be posted in
community halls, churches, schools, and the governor's office. Implementation of the community buildings sub-
component will involve the local Vava'u Disaster Management Committee and local officials. For implementation of
the retrofitting subcomponent, an NGO will monitor and facilitate selection of the subprojects; civil works will be
completed by communities themselves with technical advise and supervision from a technical adviser under Ministry of
Works.
Land:
To ensure that land required for the project is legally available, and to ensure that current occupants are not
dispossessed of the houses provided under the project, all beneficiaries would be required to produce one of the
following documentary evidence establishing ownership or usufruct: (i) deed of grant (registration); (ii) deed of lease;
(iii) Certificate of Apportionment (blue form, from the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources); (iv) letter
from the land owner in favor of the current occupant, including provisions to allow the affected household the use of
the house to be built under the same land tenure arrangements existing prior to the cyclone, and for a period of time of
not less than the economic life of the house to be built. The letter to be registered in the District Court of Vava'u.
At appraisal, it was determined that all the houses are to be replaced on the existing land, so land acquisition will not
be required. Accordingly, no Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework (LARF) is required, consistent with the
decision of the safeguards review meeting on 4/4/02.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies,
with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Civil society has been extensively consulted during the preparation of the project. The project design has been
presented to and reviewed by NGO representatives and local church organizations; views and information were
obtained from local tradesmen, builders, and private commercial banks. Continued involvement of the beneficiaries is
built into the project implementation arrangements.
E. Safeguards Classification (select one). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[ ] S,. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are technically and
institutionally manageable
[]S3. - No safeguard issues
[]SF - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar projects
which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements                        Expected Date Actual Date
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                       .../...1.    ...1 ...    or N/A XX
Date of "in-country" disclosure                   ... / ...1.   ...1....   or N/A XX
Date of submission to InfoShop                    .../...1.     ...1/.1...  or N/A XX
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
./../... ...             orN/A   XX
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                       ... 1 .../    ..  ...    or N/A XX
Date of "in-country" disclosure                   ... / ...    .../...     or N/A XX
Date of submission to InfoShop                        ...      .. 1...     or N/A XX



- 52 -                                       Appendix 7
Indigenous Peoples Development PlanWFramework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                     .../ ... l . ... ...    or N/A XX
Date of "in-country" disclosure                 .../ ...  .  ... /...   or N/A XX
Date of submission to InfoShop                  .. .  ...  ...l. ...    or N/A XX
Pest Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                     .../ l  l        ...    or N/A XX
Date of "in-country" disclosure                 ... ... .    .. / l.    or N/A XX
Date of submission to InfoShop                  .. ... .     .. l l...  or N/A XX
Dam Safety Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                     ...            / l ...  or N/A XX
Date of "in-country" disclosure                 ...            / l ...  or N/A XX
Date of submission to InfoShop                  .../ ..l.     ... l..   or N/A XX
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by:
Task Team Leader:                               Name William Paterson   Date: 4/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialist 1:                Name Bruce Harris       Date:
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:                Name Kavita Sethi       Date: 4/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialist 3:                Name                    Date:
Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator                 Name Glenn Morgan       Date
Comments
Sector Manager                                  Name Jitendra N. Bajpai Date
Comments
N/A Not Available
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas (note JRM:
this disclaimer appears only for projects triggering OP/BP 8.60)



-53-                                        Appendix 8
KINGDOM OF TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CERMP)
KEY IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES AND INDICATORS
I. Physical Indicators
Components            Activities         Unit      Year I     Year 2        Year 3         End of
___________________ _  |Project
Al. Replacement       Housing            number    400        400           400            400
housing               construction
A2. Community         Rehabilitation of  number    10         30            40             40
buildings             community
buildings
A3. Retrofitting of   Upgrading house    number    50         200           250            250
existing structures   and enterprise
structures
B 1. Strengthening    Revised national
emergency and risk    risk management
management            strategy
processes
Hazard assessment
process established  _
B2. Land and Risk     Aerial photographs
Information           and maps of 10
major islands
available           _
National spatial             _ 
geo-referencing
system established
Risk reduction
plans prepared and
implemented
B3. Improvement of    Power for
Building standards    enforcement of
building code      I.I_                I              I_I
Number of training  number    4          8             10             10
sessions with
building industry
Note: F1 = output achieved






IBRD 31928
173-
;__ .,__.                                             TONGA
CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND
F, 1LfIA Z.- %:V .L L ~r IC'                                      MANAGEMENT PROJECT
/I- -- | _  A   '.:L.''L' '-SELECTED BENEFICIARY VILLAGES UNDER THE PROJECT
/  !~ j  ,XNIUATOPUTAPU
GROUP                                                      OTHER VILLAGES
ROADS
* ,                          ,  - .  .  - .; - '@ DIVISION CAPITAL
\ -- - -  NIUAS
VAVA'U                                                                            -,
VAVA'U     -::,--
PACIFIC OCEAN                             ,,                              IANAU
F~~_--rjLALEI_             _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    IS A N D  
;iPac.- :f - 'M I |Ef  _  FC'_t,1i41E1 l5LAffiC,             -,S||le                 J,  ~ ,-      ,        C ' 
I I-I | t  I  i .--_.  I1                          y                                              | aiddL
  .i.KF.N K.RO.~      P     VQ,- ILNC'-                                                            FMacrir   - ',.I..j
VAVAUl                                                                                     ;     . 7UC .J !-  i  .... I I,,l,
19~~~~~ ....... ttlrymp I                                                       -        7K=  L GmIb  v-.  _IIftop'o; -
LA rE 15LArJC          -  IIUm                                                                I
VA VA U                                                                   'tli e
L ,. ;qs a pI               Ne.,i; ! u   ;  11013
HA'APAI                                                           Li'. . Iy  V     ',
ft,  '       -                ,*  '   _  .qir.!I   -   .  uio U  -1 
l:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. *F,!                       --8 LN- P;,-- - 0"t1 1 .
F:'Fij.4  e~L.N  '~llfl'"'  ISL.NLN   --                        i.Jatn,h,I       -  - -.
HA'APAI GROUP                     -. A        . ~ )  *                                   -_
gfALCON  I~L.ANC'I   -                                                        I         -t'"<,r
* - 115 31.,rnaha  1
TONGATAPU                                                       -N: 1. A.  r       -..*.3PCF
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~PACIFI C
T:IJ2r7A TuI1SLAI P Nuku'alofa                                  -..CE
0-k.                                  -EAN~~~~~~~~~~~~ k.~a 
r. ,  I r4Fu                                                                                  'LLAl IL  SD -  .........  i -  *1,  .  C
TONGATAPU c      'EUA                                                                                                  1 845'
GROUP                                             - 3.1.                     t.
174- 0'



