Report No. PID11277
Project Name                     Tonga-Cyclone Emergency Recovery and (@)
Management Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Product ID                       TOPE75171
Borrower(s)                      Kingdom of Tonga
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Works, Ministry of Lands,
Survey
and Natural Resources, Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID prepared                May 22, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              April 5/April 17, 2002
Bank Approval Date               May 30, 2002
Country and Sector Background
1.      The archipelago of the Kingdom of Tonga comprises 170 islands in three
main island groups extending over 700 km in the South Pacific, and is prone
to cyclones typically up to Force 4 (Cyclone Category C). The population of
98,000 is primarily Polynesian, with a literacy rate close to 99 per cent and
a low incidence of poverty. The fiscal situation in the country is generally
deteriorating, and real GDP growth is estimated to have slowed to about 3
percent in 2000/01. The country must import a high proportion of its food,
and relies on tourism for hard currency earnings. Tonga remains dependent on
sizable external aid and remittances from Tongan communities overseas to
offset its trade deficit. Tonga has a reasonable basic infrastructure and
well-developed social services.
2.      Tropical Cyclone Waka, which struck the Niua and Vava'u island groups
on December 30-31, 2001, caused substantial damage to buildings, trees, food
and cash crops, and power, but there were no fatalities or major injuries and
negligible damage to transport infrastructure or land. The effects of the
cyclone were most evident on weak structures (mainly old houses and poorly
built community buildings) and roofs, and on crops and trees. On Vava'u
sixty percent of buildings were damaged, including about twenty percent that
were completely demolished or severely damaged, most of which were occupied
by poor households. The core needs for the recovery program were assessed to
comprise 512 homes (TOP 8 m), schools (TOP 1.5 million), and agriculture and
fishing (TOP 0.1 m), with other needs being met by local communities.
Objectives of the Project
3.      The main objective is to assist in recovering the standard of living of
the population affected by the cyclone through the rehabilitation of the
social infrastructure in selected affected areas and to improve its
resilience to natural hazards.
4.      The second objective is to strengthen and upgrade the emergency and
risk management capacity of the country through the improvement of its
nationwide resilience to natural hazards, including the effects of climate
change.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement
5.      The financing gap in the recovery efforts is beyond the financial
capacity of the Government at this time, when international reserves are low



and the current account deficit is widening. IDA support would be directly
benefiting very poor households who constitute the great majority of those
impacted by the cyclone. The proposed project is consistent with the
objective in the Pacific Regional Strategy [R2000-741 of helping Pacific
member countries to manage natural disasters. Natural disasters such as
cyclones, frequently exact a large toll on Pacific member countries in the
form of human suffering, damage to infrastructure and loss of export
earnings. The cost of such disasters can be considerably reduced through
comprehensive disaster management programs. IDA can provide support from
international experience in emergency management processes (Disaster
Management Facility), a successful coastal infrastructure risk management
activity in Samoa, the Climate Change Adaptation initiative, and work on
catastrophe insurance in Vanuatu. Successful models for provision of
emergency housing and for building a risk management strategy are available
in this Bank work and can be augmented through regional partners such as
SOPAC.
Description
6.      The project would assist recovery of social infrastructure in the
affected area, through rapid replacement of destroyed or damaged housing, and
over three years strengthen the national capacity for emergency and risk
management. The project components are as follows:
A.      Social Infrastructure Recovery (US$4.2 m): (i) Construction and
supervision of 400 units of low-cost cyclone-resistant housing in the Vava'u
group, Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu islands to replace completely damaged
houses of households with inadequate financial capacity to rebuild; (ii)
Reconstruction or retrofitting of community facilities for cyclone-resistance
in about 40 villages in the Vava'u group, Niuafo'ou and Niuatoputapu islands,
through the provision of grants; (iii) Reconstruction or retrofitting and
upgrading of cyclone resistant residential and small-medium enterprise
buildings for improved hazard resistance, through the provision of grants.
B.      Emergency and Risk Management Capacity Building (US$1.8 m): (i)
Strengthening emergency and risk management processes - in risk reduction,
readiness, response and recovery phases - through advisory services and
community training, development and implementation of risk mitigation
strategy for natural hazards and climate change; and awareness-raising; (ii)
Establishment of a modern land and spatial information system to support risk
management; (iii) Implementation and dissemination of building construction
codes through advisory services, training and workshops.
C.      Project Management (US$0.27 m): Management and coordination of Project
activities, financial management and accounting, procurement, monitoring and
reporting, and carrying out of audits, including audits of Project Accounts,
through advisory services.
Financing
7.      The total baseline project costs are estimated at US$6.3 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.2 million equivalent
(83%) and taxes and duties estimated at about US$0.17 million (2.6%). The
Government has provided special tax exemption for most recovery activities,
including all of the project activities except local services. From the
total financing required of US$6.31 million equivalent, IDA would finance
US$5.85 million equivalent (1009 of foreign exchange costs and 70% of local
costs excluding taxes). The proposed IDA financing would cover 93% of total
project costs and 95.3% of the total costs net of taxes and duties. The GOT
would finance the remaining expenditures estimated at US$0.46 million
equivalent, including US$0.17 million of taxes and duties. A breakdown of
project costs and the financing plan are shown below. At the time of Bank
- 2 -



approval, AusAID have agreed to provide AUD 635,000 for 40 additional housing
units, and the European Union are proposing a grant of EUR 420,000 to cover
the Government's counterpart funds.
NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into .text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be able
to download the complete original version by going to
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/to75171.doc
Implementation
8.      Oversight. The government would establish a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), chaired by the Secretary of Finance and comprising
representatives of all agencies involved in implementation of the project,
i.e.: Ministry of Works (MOW), Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural
Resources (MLSNR), Central Planning, the National Disaster Management Office
(NDMO) and VDMC. The PCC would be responsible for the overall coordination of
the project implementation and achievement of the Project objectives,
including all performance indicators.
9.      The Project Management Unit (PMU) under the PCC would be responsible
for the day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of the project
activities. The PMU will be located within the Ministry of Finance, and
comprise a Project Manager/Procurement Officer, Finance Officer/accountant,
and an Administrative Assistant. The PMU will be responsible for project
accounting and financial management in cooperation with the Treasury
Department, Ministry of Finance. It will report on a monthly basis on
progress in project implementation.
10.     Implementing Agencies. There would be three implementing agencies -
Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Works (MoW), and Ministry of Lands,
Survey and Natural Resources (MLSNR) - that will implement their respective
components under the project. Under the guidance of the PMU, the
implementing agencies will be responsible for project procurement, including
preparation of bidding documents, evaluation and contract award, inspection
and certification of completion of works, and management of contracts.
Grants for community-based works, for reconstruction of community buildings
in Vava'u and for retrofitting of existing buildings throughout the country,
are to be managed by the PMU and the works would be managed by an NGO or firm
appointed to administer the selection of subprojects and certification of
completion.
Sustainability
11.     As the key focus of the project is rehabilitation of damaged
infrastructure, future maintenance needs are minimized through the hazard-
resistant design and evidence of past robustness. For other aspects, the
provisions for extensive dissemination on risk mitigation techniques through
training in application of the new building code, for inspectors, builders
and homeowners, is expected to gradually change building practices and thus
progressively reduce the vulnerability of buildings to natural disasters.
This, together with the incentives provided for retrofitting of existing
buildings for hazard resistance should extend the improvement in resilience
of buildings well beyond the affected area. In respect of emergency
management, the lessons learned from the response to TC Waka, the additional
information tools, and the restructured institutional arrangements, are
expected to result in a more sustainable and effective organization and
procedures.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
-3 -



12.     Relevant lessons can be drawn from international and Bank experience in
disaster management, from other projects in the Pacific Islands, and from the
few previous operations in Tonga (e.g., Second Tongan Development Bank
Project). First, for housing assistance, the aim should be to provide most
assistance to the poor who have no access to insurance; to bring existing
good sector policies and practices to bear upon housing reconstruction; and
to encourage mitigation measures that reduce future impacts. Second, the
experience with developing a risk management strategy in Samoa has shown the
importance of adopting a comprehensive approach to risk assessment. The Samoa
project has also shown the benefits of effective project management in a
dedicated unit, and the positive influence that Bank procurement procedures
can have on national procurement procedures. Third, the management of funds
and small loans warrants caution and strong fiduciary provisions because
these were not managed well by the Tongan Development Bank under previous
assistance. Finally, an emergency lending operation should not aim to
address long-term policy issues or sector reforms but may support them to the
extent that is practical.
Poverty-Targeted Intervention (PTI).
13.     Not applicable.   Though not targeted at the poor, the project would
assist the poor as they comprise the majority (about 80-90%) of the affected
persons in the project area whose houses were damaged beyond repair and
require replacement.
Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
14.     As the project supports the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
the magnitude of adverse environmental impacts is expected to be minor. Civil
works contracts will include special technical provisions specifying good
environmental practices, in compliance with the environmental requirements of
the Bank. The social impacts will be positive since the majority of the
affected population is from socio-economic groups who are least able to cope
with loss of home and income. Civil society has been consulted during the
preparation phase and continued interaction with NGOs is built into the
project.
Benefits and Risks
15.     There are four primary sources of benefits from the Project. Direct
benefits will accrue to the poor and others made homeless or affected by the
cyclone through first, a more secure and resilient dwelling, and second
through the financial asset value of the house. Second, deferred benefits
will accrue to the country through a reduction of potential damage costs and
loss of productivity when another cyclone emergency strikes. Third, citizens
will be better prepared, less vulnerable to injury or loss, and expect faster
and more effective response in terms of emergency information, rescue and
relief supplies as a result of the improved ERM procedures. Finally, all
public and private economic assets could be better protected and less
vulnerable to damage as a result of the hazard mapping, and the risk
management strategy and individual plans, resulting in lower risks and
exposure to risk and consequently lower damage and recovery costs.
16.     The risks in the project include controllable and uncontrollable risks.
The risk of further natural hazards - storm, earthquake or tsunami - are
moderate to substantial. The damage risk from major cyclone-level storms is
about 5 times higher than from major earthquakes. Controllable risks include:
(i) weak implementation capacity, including slow or flawed procurement; (ii)
financial risk in potential for mismanagement of funds; (iii) slow or
inaccurate accounting; (iv) inappropriate selection of beneficiaries; and (v)
low absorption of institutional strengthening and training. These risks will
be mitigated through the financial management, procurement and implementation
- 4 -



arrangements defined for the project.
17.     Contact Point:
Task Manager: William D.O. Paterson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
Telephone: +1 202 458 1334
Fax: +1 202 522 3573
18.     For information on other project-related documents contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
Telephone: +1 202 458 5454
Fax: +1 202 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



