Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF050698 TON 
 
Australian Grant Agreement 
 
(Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
As Administrator of Grant Funds 
Provided by the COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA 
 
Dated June 28 , 2002 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF050698 TON 
 
AUSTRALIAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2002, between the KINGDOM OF TONGA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the 
Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), through its Australian Agency for International 
Development. 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement of even date herewith, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), for purposes of 
financing the Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management Project (the Project), the 
Association agreed to provide to the Recipient a credit in the amount of SDR4,700,000 
(the Credit) under terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, 
and the Recipient declared its commitment to the objectives of the Project, as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and agreed to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the terms of the Development Credit Agreement; 
(B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 27, 2002, between Australia, 
through its Australian Agency for International Development, and the Recipient, 
Australia has agreed to make a grant in an aggregate amount of six hundred thirty five 
thousand Australian dollars (AUD635,000) (the Australian Grant) to the Recipient, to 
assist in joint financing about 40 houses under Part A.1 of the Project as described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
(C) pursuant to the Framework Agreement dated May 29, 1996, among Australia, 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association, making 
arrangements for the Association to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds 
of the financing to be provided by Australia and the Association and regulating certain 
other matters of common interest in connection with such financing, and to the agreement 
of even dated herewith, entered into between Australia and the Association (the 
Administration Agreement), Australia has requested the Association, and the Association 
has agreed, to administer on behalf of Australia the Australian Grant made available by 
Australia to the Recipient to joint finance about 40 houses under Part A.1 of the Project, 
as described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, under terms and 
conditions of this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-2-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following pr
ovisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (13) 
and (14), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) and (l), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (b), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Association,” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Australian 
Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement referred to in 
Recital (C) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
“Association” shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
Page  4
-3-
(iii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement,” wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Credit,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Australian Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Credit Account,” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Australian Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the Australian Grant is credited; 
(vi) 
the term “Project,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Activities; 
(vii) 
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read: 
 
“Withdrawals from the Australian Grant Account shall be made 
in Australian dollars; provided, however, that if the expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Australian Grant have been 
paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at 
the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal.” 
 
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and the term “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Australian Grant 
 
Section 2.01.  The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Australian Grant in 
the amount of six hundred thirty five thousand Australian dollars (AUD635,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Australian Grant may be withdrawn from 
the Australian Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by 
agreement among the Kingdom of Tonga, and the International Development Association 
acting on its own capacity and as the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out 
the Activities and to be financed out of Australian Grant. 
Page  5
-4-
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Activities, open and maintain 
in Australian dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Administrator shall not be obliged to provide funds under the 
Australian Grant to the Recipient except to the extent the Administrator shall have 
received funds from Australia for this purpose. 
 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Activities
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Activities through its Ministry 
of Works with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, 
engineering, and financial practices, and social and environment standards, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Activities. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Activities in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
Australian Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof. 
 (b) 
The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  6
-5-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Australian Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Australian Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto or the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever is 
later. 
Page  7
-6-
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until disbursement 
hereunder has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder, provided, however, that if either the Development Credit 
Agreement or the Administration Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate automatically and shall cease to have any 
further force or effect. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Vuna Road, Nuku ‘alofa 
 
Kingdom of Tonga 
 
Facsimile: 676-26-011 
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
By 
/s/ H.E. Tu’a Taumoepeau Tupou 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as Administrator of the Australian Grant 
 
By /s/ 
Mr. 
Jitendra 
Bajpai 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-8-
SCHEDULE 1 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (4) (a) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Australian Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
AUD200,000 to be withdrawn from the Australian Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Australian Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
Page  10
-9-
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Australian 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the 
Australian Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Australian Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Australian Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Australian Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Activities, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Australian Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Australian Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
Page  11
-10-
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to 
the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Australian Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
