Page  1
CONFORMED COPY                        
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3647 TON 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 28, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3647 TON 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2002, between the KINGDOM OF TONGA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), through its Australian Agency for 
International Development (AusAID), has agreed to make available to the Borrower, through 
the Association, a grant (the Australian Grant) in the principal amount of six hundred thirty 
five thousand Australian dollars (AUD635,000) to assist in joint financing about 40 houses 
under Part A.1 of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Administration Agreement of even dated herewith, entered into 
between Australia and the Association (the Administration Agreement), which 
Administration Agreement, inter alia, provides for the Association to administer the proceeds 
of the Australian Grant; 
(C) pursuant to the Administration Agreement mentioned in paragraph (B) above the 
Borrower and the Association, acting as Administrator of the Grant Funds provided by 
Australia, have entered into an agreement of even date herewith (the Australian Grant 
Agreement); and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Page  3
-2- 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Household” means a household whose house was damaged by the 
Cyclone and who is eligible for receiving a replacement house under Part A.1 of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a community, an individual, or a small-scale enterprise 
eligible to carry out Sub-projects under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
“Cyclone” means the tropical cyclone Waka that affected the Borrower’s 
Niuafo’ou islands, Niuatoputapu islands, and the Vava’u island group on December 30 and 
31, 2001; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Grant” means a grant in Tongan Pa’anga made or proposed to be made by 
the Borrower to a Beneficiary through the Project Management Unit, out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, through a Grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to finance the carrying 
out of: (a) the reconstruction or retrofitting of community buildings under Part A.2 of the 
Project; and (b) retrofitting and upgrading cyclone-resistance of residential and small-
medium enterprise buildings under Part A.3 of the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual;  
(f) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, to 
be adopted by the Borrower, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
as said manual may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association;
 
(g) 
“Project Coordination Committee” means the committee to be established 
pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
 
(h) 
“Project Management Unit” and the acronym “PMU” mean the unit to be 
established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
Page  4
-3- 
(j) 
“Sub-projects” means the carrying out of investments under Parts A.2 or A.3 
of the Project by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of the Grant, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual; and 
(k) 
“Tonga Pa’anga” means the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for Parts A.1, B and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and  
(ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by 
the Project Management Unit on account of a Beneficiary to 
meet reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for a Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in the National Reserve Bank of Tonga on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Page  5
-4- 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15, 
and November 15, commencing November 15, 2012, and ending May 15, 2042.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors 
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  6
-5- 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred 
to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall 
be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts 
A.1, A.3 and B.3 of the Project through its Ministry of Works; (ii) Parts A.2, B.1 and C of the 
Project through its Ministry of Finance; and (iii) Part B.2 of the Project through its Ministry 
of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with sound administrative, engineering, and financial practices, and social and environment 
standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
Page  7
-6- 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.1, B and C of the Project, and 
Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, respectively.  
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited on a semi-annual and 
annual basis, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 45 days after the semi-annual audit and six months after 
the end of each such year, as the case may be, (A) certified copies of 
Page  8
-7- 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  9
-8- 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; 
and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished 
to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that: 
(a)  subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph: 
(i) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Australian 
Grant or any other grant, credit or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or 
(ii)  any such credit or loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof. 
(b)  Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Page  10
-9- 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified
 
in paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provison of paragraph (b) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions that: 
(a) 
the Australian Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
(b) 
the Project Coordination Committee has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Project Management Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
the services of an independent auditor with qualifications and experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and selected in accordance with paragraph 
2, Part C, Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, have been retained for purposes of 
carrying out the audits provided for in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, on the land tenure arrangements made with each Affected Household and each 
Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in accordance 
with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
Page  11
-10- 
(g) 
the Borrower has adopted a
 
financial management system for the Project 
within the Project Management Unit, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the written consents referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been issued in accordance with Tongan laws and are legally valid and 
enforceable in accordance with such laws; and 
(b) 
that the Australian Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Vuna Road, Nuku ‘alofa 
 
Kingdom of Tonga 
 
Facsimile: 676-26-011 
 
Page  12
-11- 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
By 
/s/ H.E. Tu’a Taumoepeau Tupou 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ 
Mr. 
Jitendra 
Bajpai 
   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-12- 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of  
 
Amount  
the 
Australian 
 
of
the Credit 
 
Grant 
 
Allocated  
Allocated 
 
% 
of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 
SDR  
AUD 
 
to 
be 
 Category
Equivalent)
Equivalent)
Financed
(1) Works 
2,250,000 
 
600,000 
90% 
 
(2) 
Grants 
640,000 
 
 
 
100% of Grant 
 
amount disbursed 
 
(3) 
Goods 
   320,000 
 
 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100%  
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 
 
95%
of local expenditures 
 
for other items procured  
 
locally 
 
(4) 
Consultants’  
 
  
 
 services: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) under 
  80,000 
 
  35,000 
90% for foreign 
 
Part A.1 of 
 
 
 
 
individual consultants 
 
the Project 
 
 
 
 
and foreign consulting 
 
firms, and 90% for local 
 
(b) under  
   1,130,000 
 
 
 
individual consultants and 
 
Parts B  
 
 
 
 
 
local consulting firms 
 
and C of the  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Project 
Page  14
-13- 
Amount of  
 
Amount 
 
the Australian  
 
of
the Credit 
 
Grant 
 
Allocated  
Allocated 
 
% 
of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 
SDR  
AUD 
 
to 
be 
 Category
Equivalent)
Equivalent)
Financed
(5) Training 
and 
40,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 workshops 
 
(6) 
Incremental 
   16,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 operating 
costs 
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
224,000 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
 
4,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
directly related to the Project, incurred by the Borrower (which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the Project), namely the costs for the operation of the Project 
Management Unit, including in-country travel costs and subsistence allowances, 
communication, and office consumables, but excluding salaries. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
 
(a) 
in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless and until the proceeds of the Australian Grant shall have been fully 
disbursed;  
Page  15
-14- 
(b) 
in respect of Category (4) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless and until the proceeds of the Australian Grant shall have been fully 
disbursed; and 
 
(c) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 940,000 may be made in respect of Categories 
(1) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after April 16, 2002.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Grants; (b) goods under contracts 
to be procured under paragraph 2 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
regardless of the cost; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training and workshops; and (f) 
incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-15- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) recovering the standard 
of living of its population affected by the Cyclone through the rehabilitation of the social 
infrastructure in selected damaged areas; and (b) strengthening and upgrading its emergency 
and risk management capacity through the improvement of its nationwide resilience to 
natural hazards. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Social Infrastructure Recovery 
1. 
Construction of about 440 units of low-cost cyclone-resistant houses, including the 
provision of advisory services for design and supervision therefor. 
2. 
Reconstruction or retrofitting of community buildings for cyclone-resistance in about 
40 villages in Vava’u group, Niuafo’ou and Niuatoputapu islands including the provision of 
Grants.  
3. 
Retrofitting and upgrading cyclone-resistance of residential and small-medium 
enterprise buildings including the provision of Grants.  
Part B
:
Emergency and Risk Management Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s agencies responsible for emergency and 
risk management, inter alia, the National Disaster Management Office, the Prime Minister’s 
Office, the Ministry of Works, and the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources, 
including the provision of advisory services, training and equipment therefor. 
2. 
Establishment of land and geographical information system for support of risk 
management, including: (a) aerial photography and mapping of Tongatapu, Ha’apai, and 
Vava’u island groups; (b) geographic information system for national use; and (c) hazard 
assessment and development of a risk mitigation strategy.  
3. 
Implementation and dissemination of building construction codes including the 
provision of advisory services, training and carrying out of workshops. 
Page  17
-16- 
Part C
:
Project Management
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Lands, 
Survey and Natural Resources; and the Ministry of Works in: managing and coordinating 
Project activitie
s; financial management and accounting; procurement; monitoring and 
reporting, and carrying out of audits, all under the Project, including the provision of advisory 
services.  
2. 
Carrying out of audits of Project Accounts including the provision of advisory 
services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
Page  18
-17- 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, in particular with respect to paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 therein, and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Goods under Parts B.2 (a) and B.2 (b) of the Project which the Association agrees 
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  19
-18- 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to all contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  20
-19- 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 
2
of
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of 
this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under Part B.3 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for auditing of the Project accounts and services under Part C of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the provision of the financial management system under Part C.1 of the 
Project, and services under Part B.3 of the Project, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-20- 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services under Parts B.1, B.3 and C.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  22
-21- 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain: 
 
(a) a Project Coordination Committee chaired by the Secretary of Finance and 
comprising representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Works; Ministry of Lands, Survey, 
and Natural Resources; Central Planning; National Disaster Management Office; and Vava’u 
Disaster Management Committee; with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
assigned with funds and resources as shall be necessary to undertake the overall coordination 
of Project implementation and achieve the Project objectives. 
 
(b) a Project Management Unit within the Ministry of Finance, headed by a qualified 
and experienced manager/procurement officer, assigned with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers, including a finance officer/Project accountant, and an administrative assistant, and 
provided with such powers, responsibilities organization and funding as shall be required to 
enable it to carry out the day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of Project 
activities. 
2. 
The Borrower shall undertake a census of the Affected Households, satisfactory to 
the Association, to determine, inter alia, the land tenure situation of the land and damaged 
house/buildings, and shall obtain written consent from the landowner witnessed by a third 
party or duly sworn affidavit before a Magistrate or Commissioner of Oaths of the Borrower, 
to construct a replacement house under Part A.1 of the Project thereon; provided, however, 
that if the Affected Household is different from the landowner, the said written consent shall 
also include provisions to allow the Affected Household the use of the house to be built under 
the same land tenure arrangements existing prior to the Cyclone, and for a period of time of 
not less than the economic life of the house to be built. 
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare, adopt and thereafter apply the Operational Manual 
acceptable to the Association, as such manual may be amended with the prior agreement of 
the Association, in the implementation of the Project, which Operational Manual shall 
provide, inter alia, for: (a) criteria for environmental review of Sub-projects, and for 
construction of houses under Part A.1 of the Project; (b) eligibility criteria for construction of 
new housings under Part A.1 of the Project and buildings under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project; (c) the procedure and criteria for appraisal and selection of Beneficiaries and Sub-
projects; (d) terms and conditions governing the Grant Agreements; (e) development plan 
screening for land cleaning, sewage disposal and construction under Part A of the Project; (f) 
screening criteria for natural habitats and cultural property; (g) procurement procedures for 
Page  23
-22- 
goods, works and services under Sub-projects to be contracted at a reasonable price following 
the established commercial practices in the territory of the Borrower, including community 
participation arrangements acceptable to the Association; and (h) financial management and 
disbursement arrangements. 
4. 
The Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive any of the 
provisions of the Operational Manual and the Grant Agreement without the prior concurrence 
of the Association. 
5. 
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, 
a
financial management system for the Project within the Project Management Unit, 
acceptable to the Association. 
Monitoring and Reports
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association, on or about March 1, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 1, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  24
-23- 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $585,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify 
.
Page  25
-24- 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  26
-25- 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
