r)
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMlCIAL USE ONTY
A1  ; 1tt)1' 1 t ' } 1 f1  i t }] T                            Report No.    10178
}.' 1")'l.i] i  :          ;       -,.i.. ;: .I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NOS. 1458-SE AND SF-13)
DECEMBER 5, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian ')epartment
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE, MUT
Monetary unit - CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 - CFAF 325
WEIGHTS AND HEASUREMENTS
Metric system
FISCAL YEA
States and local governments -- July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC/MEQ             Bureau de Circulation, Ministere de l'Equipement
Traffic Bureau, Ministry of Equipment
BHS                Banque de l'Habitat du Senegal
Housing Bank of Senegal
BOM/SGPR           Bureau Organisation et M6thodes, SG Presidence de la
Republique
Organization and Methods Office, General Secretariat of the
Office of the President of the Republic
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
CUD                Communaute Urbaine de Dakar
City of Dakar
DCH/MUH            Direction de la Construction et de l'Habitat/MUH
Housing and Construction Department/MUH
DCL/MINT           Direction des Collectivit6s Locales, Ministere de
l'Interieur
Local Government Department, Ministry of the Interior
DEP/MEQ            Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation/MEQ
Studies and Programming Debarment/MEQ
DEPS/MPC           Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation Sectorielle/MPC
Studies and Sectoral Programming Department/MPC
DGPB/M1UH          Direction Gestion du Patrimoine BAti/MUH
State-Owned Properties Management Department/MUH
DUA/MUH            Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Architecture/MUH
Urban Development and Architecture Department/MUH
FAC                Fonds d'Am6nagement [sic) et de Cooperation
FAHU               Fonds pour l'Amelioration de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
Housing and Urban Development Fund
FECL               Fonds d'Equipement des Collectivites Locales
Municipal Infrastructure Fund
GTZ                German Cooperation Agency
IDA                International Development Association
MEF                Ministry of the Economy and Finance
MEQ                Ministry of Equipment
MINT               Ministry of the Interior
MPC                Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MUH                Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
OHLM               Low-Cost Housing Office
PATREU             Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
Project
PDES               Economic and Social Development Plan
PDU/Dakar          Urban Development Master Plan for the Dakar Region
PIC                Plan d'Investissement Communal
Community Investment Plai.
PTIP               Three-Year Public Investment Plan
SDE                Secretariat d'Etat A la Decentralisation
State Secretariat for Decentralization
SENELEC            Soci:te Nationale d'Electricite
National Electric Power Company
SGPR               Secretariat General de la Pr6sidence de la R6publique
General Secretariat of the Office of the Pr'-ident of the
Republic
SICAP              Societe Immobiliere du Cap-Vert
Cap Vert Real Estate Company
SNHLM4             Societe Nationale d'Habitations a Loyers Moderes
National Lnw-Cost Housing Company
SONEES             Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
National Water Company of Senegal
STCUD              Services Techniques de la Communaut6 Urbaine de Dakar
Technical Department of the City of Dakar
TG/Dakar           Controller General of Dakar/HEF
UMDP               Urban Management and Development Project
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme



THE WORLD BANK                  FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Wash.r,gton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Directm.Cenieal
Opetatumis Evaluation
December 10, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Senegal
Urbau Mana'ement and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project
(Credit Nos. 1458-SE and SF-13)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Senegal - Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance Project (Credit Nos. 1458-SE and SF-13)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by .ecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NOS. 1458-SE AND SF^13)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT REVIEW
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A.    Project Identity  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
B.    Introduction  . . . . . . . . . .   .                                   1
C.    Project Identification and Preparation .  . . .  . . . . . . . .  2
D.    Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
E.    Project Description .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
F.    Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
G.    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
H.    Project Results .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
I.    Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
J.    Bank Performance ...................... . 12
K.    Borrower Performance  ... . . . . . . ..........................13
L.    Relationship Between the Borrower and the Bank  ... .            .  .  .    . 14
M.    Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
N.    Project Docsmentation ...................                              15
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . 16
A. Overview .. .                                                              16
B.    The World Bank and Senegal ................. . 16
C.    The Project Unit and Problems of Coordination . . . . . . . . . 17
D.    The Steering Committee ................... . 18
E.    The Monitoring Committee .................. . 18
F.    The Technical Director ................... . 18
G.    The Planning Department . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . 18
H.    DCH (Construction and Housing Department) . . . . . . . . . . . 19
I.    Urban Development and Architecture Department . . . . . ...  . . 20
J.    Strengthening of the DGPB (State-Owned Properties Management
Department) ........................ ... .. 20
K.    SICAP (Socidtf Immobiliere du Cap-Vert) and SNHLM (Societ6
Nationale des Habitations A Loyers Mod6ros) . . . . . . . . . . 20
L.    SCAT-URBAN (Central Land Development Agency)  ... .            .  .  .  .    .. 2i
M.    The Traffic Bureau  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
N.    Local Government Department . . . . ... .   . . . . . . .  . . . 21
0.    CUD (City of Dakar) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
P.    CIDA (Canadian International Development Association) . . . . . 23
PART III:   Statistical Information (not dictated yet)
PART IV:    Annex
Annex 1:    Detailed Analysis of Project Implementation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NOS. 1458-SE AND SF13)
Preface
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban
Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project which on July 20,
1984 was accorded two IDA Credits totaling US$6 million and equivalent
respectively to US$3.048 million (1458-SE) and US$2.952 million (SF-13-SE).
The Credits were closed on December 31, 1989 (originally scheduled completion
date: December 1988) and the funds fully disbursed.
2.          The current project follows the 1972 Sites and Services Project
(Credit 336-SE) and the 1980 Urban Sector Study (1061-SE) and is the Bank's
third sectoral undertaking in Senegal. The project also received support from
CIDA, in an amount equivalent to US$0.213 million, disbursed fully by the
closing date of the Credit.
3.          Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Sahelian
Infrastructure Division of the Africa Regional Office. They are based, inter
alia, on the President's Report, Credit Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, analysis of the main
background documentation for the project and interviews with those involved in
identification and implementation. Part II was prepared by the Borrower in
February 1991.



- ii. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NOS. 1458-SE AND SF-13)
Evaluation Summary
A.          Background
1.          With the limited resources of the agriculture sector a constraint
to steady growth, Senegal opted for diversification of its economy and growth
of export-oriented light industry. As the success of that strategy depended
on numerous factors, including the existence and maintenance of urban
infrastructure, the Bank decided to provide support in the form of financing
of a management and rehabilitation program. Owing to its key role and the
limited potential of medium-term development in the regional poles, efforts
were concentrated initially in the Dakar region.
B.          Project Objectives
2.          Undertaken as a pilot project, the operation aimed both to clarify
issues relating to the macroeconomic environment of the urban sector and to
improve management in Dakar as regards both housing and public services. The
long-term objective was to improve the country's economic performance by
(i) stimulating public savings and (ii) improving administrative efficiency.
The short-term objectives were (i) better allocation of resources through
efficient investment planning; (ii) formulation of a housing and development
policy that is more costly to the public coffers: and (iii) maintenance of the
current level of urban services and redeployment of local responsibilities.
C.          Project Implementation
3.          With implementation overseen by the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation, the project involved several ministerial departments in carrying
out complex tasks that required extensive expertise. To a large extent it
used the services of outside specialists, involving a real transfer of
technology and the active supervision of a Steering Committee ensuring liaison
and the compatibility of activities.
4.          At the start of the project, the partial implementation of the
action program envisaged by the Credit Agreements resulted in an acute
shortage of precise guidelines partially responsible. for the emergence of
conflicts and sectoral interests. In addition to these adverse effects, there
were the consequences of a deterioration in the technical and financial
operations of public services. These two aspects slowed down project
progress. Lastly, the scarcity or reduced availability of human resources
prevented the objectives as a whole from being achieved within the expected
timeframes.
D.          Proiect Results
5.          Despite the difficulties, the results of the project are
satisfactory. There is no doubt that the more comprehensive approach to urban
problems, rehabilitation of municipal management and formulation of a new
housing policy helped restore local budget equilibria and restart the
decentralization process. They lastly made possible the identification of an



- iii -
urban management development project which, as a logical extension of the
current project, is extending its effects and consolidating its achievements.
6.          Enhanced intersectoral relations and the gradual adoption by the
public entities of the concepts and methodologies tested by the project
constitute solid bases for building on the first results. Their management by
personnel with redefined missions and tools should not be subject to any major
challenge. They still are nevertheless highly contingent upon (i) any
deterioration in public finances and (ii) the introduction of institutional
reforms.
E.          Bank Performance
7.          In general, the Bank's involvement in the preparation, appraisal
and supervision of the project was significant in helping to improve the urban
sector and municipal management. However, the overestimation of results of
the economic recovery program during identification, reduction in supervision
(as compared to projections) and the premature intermingling of activities
with the identification of a subsequent urban project had negative effects on
the rate of implementation and the achievement of the initial objectives.
F.          Borrower Performance
8.          The performance of the project beneficiary is satisfactory as a
whole, especially given the ambitious nature of the undertaking and the
context of financial belt-tightening that significantly increased the risks.
Nevertheless, the delays in establishing the conditions for implementation,
lack of a coordinating body and prolonged vacancy in technical management
prevented the Borrower from meeting all of its commitments.
G.          Main Lessons
9.          The main lessons to be learned from the project are as follows,
the first three relating to the Bank and the others to the Borrower:
(a)   Ongoing and regular supervision are apparently both key to the
success of a project in a sensitive sector;
(b)   As regards the resolution of matters linked-to policy and the
formulation of basic approaches, more realistic timeframes should
be planned, as early as the identification phase;
(c)   The multisectoral dimension of certain projects and large number
of parties involved require procedures and regular assessments
based on prior contractual commitments and sanctioned by the
gradual disbursement of credit proceeds;
(d)   In order to avoid any risk of misunderstanding or overlapping of
jurisdiction, the use of a team approach to management must be
accompanied by preliminary in-depth consultations that result in
terms of reference detailing the prerogatives of each party;



- iv -
(e!   As early as the identification phase, the technical executing
agencies must be involved in project formulation. To that end,
they must strengthen their design capability and streamline
administrative procedures;
(f)   The provision of counterpart funds for minimal operation of the
services involved in a project is the best guarantee for
satisfactory preparation and implementation.



SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABIlITTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDITS 1458-SE & SF413)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.          Project Identity
Title:                         Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project
Credit Nos.:                   1458-SE and SF-13
Sector:                        Urban Development
Borrower:                      Republic of Senegal
Executing Agency:              Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
Cumulative Amount of
IDA Credits:                 US$6 million
Government input:              US$0.65 million
B.          Introduction
1.          Like other developing countries, Senegal is undergoing rapid
urbanization and, despite a population that is still for the most part rural,
the primary sector now accounts for only 30% of GDP. Moreover, its limited
resources will not allow it to maintain satisfactory and sustained growth.
2.          In order to correct this adverse situation, Senegal opted for
diversification of its economy and the development of an export-oriented light
industry. Dependent on numerous factors, the success of this strategy is also
contingent upon the existence of infrastructure and the efficient provision of
basic services such as communications, transportation, housing, water supply
and sanitation. Consequently, although the revitalization of agriculture is a
priority in the country's recovery, the efficient management of the urban
areas vital to a healthy economy has become a major factor in the adjustment
process under way.
3.          In 1984 the Dakar region alone accounted for 90% of industrial
operations, 87% of jobs in the modern sector and most of the road networks and
skilled labor in the country. It furthermore was home to 60% of its urban
dwellers, whose increase was estimated at 6% per year and associated with a
significant shift toward relatively undeveloped areas lying beyond the urban
periphery. Lastly, it accounted for 60% of the country's wealth.



2-
4.          Given its key role in the national economy and the limi.ted
development potential of the regional poles over the medium run, the State
initially decided to mobilize the resources necessary for industrial
expansion, to concentrate its efforts on the rehabilitation of Dakar and to
seek better management of available resources, Their growing scarcity over
several years' time had resulted in a steady decline in per capita urban
investment (under the Sixth Plan reaching only 54% of its previous level) and
keener intersectoral competition, reflected in a chronic infrastructure
deficit. The lack of a Llear-cut strategy and definition of responsibilities,
poor labor and management relations and inappropriate action had
simultaneously exacerbated the dysfunctions of the urban system.
5.          Acting against this background, the main government bodies
responsible fc'r urban development and housing encountered the same
difficulties as the public sector as a whole regarding performance in
management, technical expertise, productivity and the setting of priorities.
The Borrower's strategy, which gave priority to prestige programs, proved to
be ineffective and the operations of its agencies, whose production never met
more than 10% of needs, were sharply curtailed. This collapse, although due
in part to the fact that especially advantageous financing conditions were no
longer available, led in particular in a normative and unrealistic
infrastructure policy given affordable demand. There was also sharp
deterioration of the banking system and, despite promising savings, a cutback
in the operations of the Banque de l'Habitat (BHS).
6.          Lastly, Senegal's economic and financial crisis threw municipal
institutions into disarray, particularly in Dakar. The reform of the
Municipal Code, transferring the bulk of the responsibility for maintaining
infrastructure and services to the local communities, was not accompanied by
significantly increased resources or authority. At the same time, faster
demographic growth, intensive or inappropriate use of insufficient and
unevenly distributed infrastructure as well as a shortage of expertise for the
technical and financial implementation of newly identified tasks, largely
exacerbated the deterioration in services and poor municipal management.
C.          Project Identification and Preparation
7.          The Bank's involvement in the study and resolution of urban
problems began in 1972 with Credit 336-SE to finance a first Sites and
Services Project in Dakar. From the outset, the Bank was concerned with the
appropriateness of its efforts in an essentially agricultural country where
the economic envircnment was hardly receptive to innovative urban policies.
It nevertheless entered into an agreement with the Government to produce
14,000 serviced lots in Dakar, 1,200 in Thies and to seek (i) withdrawal of
the Borrower from the direct financing of housing and greater access to free-
hold housing; (ii) increase in diversified supply and expansion of demand; and
(iii) replicability of sites and services projects and the establishment of
institutions able to manage their development. The October 1983 Completion
Report concluded that despite difficult circumstances, the project, closed in
1981, had been implemented successfully, the numerous urban policy problems
yet to be resolved notwithstanding.



R.          To that end senegal had in 1980 obtained assistance from h \ to
study the urban sector and identify the main problems. Following an
identification mission in 1982, a memorandum on the urban sector confirmed the
key role of Dakar within thp export-oriented industrial apparatus that Senegal
was seeking to develop and established the maintenance and then growth of
basic urban services as prerequisites and factors in the success of that
policy. In conclusion, it stressed the importance and necessity of structural
change and reforms to rehabilitate the urban sector gradually and achieve the
objectives. With the support of IDA (Credit 1061-SE) and to clarify the
thrusts of its recovery strategy, the Government -- through the Ministry of
Planning and Cooperation -- asked a Steering Committee assisted by a
consultant to finalize the objectives of the Urban Management and
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project and identify the means for its
implementation,
9.          Undertaken on a pilot basis, the project was to simultaneously
clarify matters relating to the macroeconomic environment of the sector as a
whole and improve management in Dakar as regards both housing and public
services. The studies and works aimed at grappling with the region's most
pressing problems as well as enabling the Government to take sectoral action
more consistent with the ongoing adjustment process. Appraised in July 1983,
the Project was the subject of a Bank President's Report in March 1984 and
Credit Agreements 1458-SE and SF-13 were approved on April 17 of that year.
Several rounds of negotiations were opened to mobilize cofinancing for the
project. They were however unsuccessful, with the exception of the CIDA
contribution to the road traffic component (Can$250,000) and GTZ financing of
a supplementary urban rehabilitation project (Dalifort Project).
D.          Project Objectives
10.         The long-term objective of the project was to support improvements
to Senegal's economic performance by stimulating public savings and improving
the efficiency of public entities responsible for the provision and
maintenance of urban services and housing. The short-term objectives involved
(i) allocation of scarce public resources to urban areas, through efficient
investment planning; (ii) formulation of an urban development and housing
policy based on the appropriate utilization of those resources;
(iii) maintenance at the current level of existing urban services in Dakar;
enabling the local authorities to better plan maintenance and rehabilitation
operations and increase the mobilization of potential resources with a view to
improving the services rendered.
E.          Project Description
11.         The Project involved numerous public, parapublic and private
parties in often complex tasks and ambitious objectives. In order to
facilitate execution but without jeopardizing their high degree of
interdependence, it included the following components:



4 -
Part A: 6L,an investment planning and programming:
(1)   Monitoring Committee:  technical assistance to the Steering
Committee responsible for (i) preparation, (ii) start-up of the
Project and (iii) technical monitoring over the life of the
Project;
(2)   Seventh Plan:  preparation of the urban sector investment program
of the Seventh Plan based on (i) the carrying out of a
methodological study to formulate guidelines for appraisal and
selection of projects and for monitoring their physical and
financial implementation; (ii) completion of the Dakar Region
Urban Development Master Plan and identification of urban
development and rehabilitation projects to be included in the
Plan; and (iii) completion of the Cap Vert transportation plan and
planning of sector investments.
Part B: Housing and Urban Policy
(1)  liousi g Finance, based on (i) affordability analysis (including
calculation of costs and prices of subsidized housing) and
existing mechanisms of resource mobilization and low-cost housing
finance (of which BHS policy and procedures) and (ii) formulation
of recommendations aimed at improving resource mobilization and
utilization and at increasing private sector participation in the
financing of low-cost housing;
(2)   Management of State-Owned Properties through (i) analysis
State-owned properties and related charges and (ii) formulation of
recommendations on means to reduce subsidies and to increase rent
collection by parapublic housing companies and the central
government;
(3)   Rehabilitation of OHLM and SICAP based on (i) a diagnostic study;
(ii) recommendations and (iii) a timetable for implementing the
recommended actions aimed at improving the financial and
managerial performance of the companies and at redirecting their
activities to more clearly defined commercial targets;
(4)   Land Development Agency:  feasibility study for the establishment
of a parapublic enterprise for the servicing of urban land with
infrastructure for residential, commercial and industrial use;
(5)   Design Alternatives for Land Development:  study of alternative
designs for land development at different service levels and
formulation of recommendations on standards and pricing policies
designed to make service land affordable to the target population;
and
(6)   Preparation of Pilot Projects, to be planned as part of the
establishment of a land development agency based on (i) a
feasibility land development study for one or two sites in Dakar



-5-
and (ii) detailed design and engineering of an infrastructure
rehabilitation plan for part of central Pikine.
Part C: Municipal Policy
(1)   Municipal Organization and Management centered around (i) analysis
of relationships between the Borrower's central government and the
communities in the Dakar region and the allocation of authority
with respect to the delivery of land development services;
(ii) identification and implementation of actions to improve
municipal administrative and fi.nancial management; (iii) identi-
fication of new financial resources and local tax collection, in
particular property taxes and (iv) analysis of the operating
procedures of the Borrower's Fonds d'Equipement des Collectivit6s
Locales and its suitability as a financing in.strument for
municipal works projects;
(2)   Maintenance and technical services with (i) identification of
rehabilitation and maintenance works and equipment required to
maintain and modernize infrastructure in Dakar; (ii) establishment
of a system to plan and program the maintenance of infrastructure
services equipment, in particular the purchasing of equipment and
spare parts; and (iii) establishment of a cost accounting and
annual budgeting system for Dakar's Technical Department;
(3)   Traffic management:  after the establishment of a traffic bureau
within the Ministry of Equipment the Project called for
(i) preparation of a priority action program for traffic
management to improve circulation for pedestrians, vehicles and
buses as well as access to and circulation within central Pikine
and (ii) implementation and monitoring during the first year of a
traffic management program for Dakar, including the surfacing of
footpaths and paving of roads to simple design standards to allow
bus access, junction improvements and provision of traffic signals
and traffic control measures;
(4)   Training piogram:  (i) identification of technical and
administrative personnel (in Dakar) and establishment of a
priority training program and (ii) training of municipal personnel
through short-term traineeships, seminars and workshops.
F.          Project Organization
12.         The Borrower entrusted project oversight to the Ministry of
Planning and Cooperation and in virtue of Side Letter No. 4. to the Credit
Agreements involved the following entities in the implementation of the
various components:
A.          Urban investment planning and programming
(1)   Consulting service                   MPC   Monitoring committee
(2)   Methodological study                 MPC   DEPS



(3)   Urban development plan completion   MUH   DUH
(4)   Transportation plan completion       ME    DEP
B.          Housing and urban policy
(1)   Housing finance                      MUH, MEF, DCH, BHS
(2)   State-owned properties management   MUH, DGPB
(3)   OHLM/SICAP rehabilitation             SGPR, MEG, MUH, DUA, DCH
(4)   Land development agency               SGPR, MEG, MUH, DUA, DCH
(5)   SDEU pilot operations                MUH, SDEU, DCH
C.          Municipal policy
(1)   Finance and oiganization             MEF, SDE, TG Dakar, DCL
(2)   Maintenance and technical services  MEF, SDE, CUD, ME, DCL
(3)   Traffic bureau                       ME, BC
(4)   Training of municipal staff           SDE, CUD, DCL
This list of tasks and the diversity of entities involved fully
reflect the institutional complexity and wide range of expertise required for
project implementation.
13.         In sectors where the Borrower was experienced (formulation of
master urban development and transportation plans and formulation of a housing
policy), brief technical assistance was provided to improve existing
techniques. In areas where the Government was less experienced and procedures
no longer suited the rehabilitation strategy advocated by the Government
(investment programming, municipal management and maintenance, traffic
management, establishment of a development agency), resident specialists were
called in. Particular attention was paid to the selection of consultants
(individual meetings), identification and additional training of counterpart
staff for the efficient transfer of technology and, once the project was
completed, a continuation of the activities by the Government. This approach
and the number and nature of agencies involved required that the technical
assistance be provided at different levels of intensity; for the Technical
Department, varied expertise and for the Steering Committee constant
availability for supervision and decision-making.
14.         A key element, the Steering Committee included a representative
from each entity involved in execution. It was responsible for an analysis of
implementation reports and studies as well as the formulation of
recommendations to the ministries and agencies involved in the actions to be
undertaken to improve urban management. Supported by a consulting firm
(EPEVRY) for the monitoring and supervision of all project components as a
whole, in conjunction with the technical and administrative departments it was
to develop indicators that would show what progress had been made and to issue
the quarterly progress reports. Its success depended in large part on the
acceptance by the public services of the theoretical underpinnings of the
project and incorporation of measures proposed for the running of the
Government.



-7-
G.          Eroiect Implementation
15.         The expected benefits of the project resided primarily in an
improvement in investment planning, formulation of urban policy and
institutional performance, as prerequisites for better management in the Cap
Vert region. The introduction of these measures was not to incur any
additional expenditures over the short run but was to generate additional
resources and better employment of public funds. Initially, in order to
ensure the development of an appropriate institutional and policy framework,
improve government performance and facilitate implementation of the various
components, the Project was to integrate the activities of the Borrower's
offices with the technical assistance provided by outside consultants and
supervision by the Steering Committee.
16.         Despite the specifics of each component, implementation can be
broken down into three major phases:
(a)   The first phase (1985 and 1986) was devoted primarily to the study
of measures that would improve urban management and the
formulation of specific proposals for the implementation of the
Borrower's policy;
(b)   The second phase (1986 and 1987) essentially involved the
identification of priority projects aimed at achieving the
foregoing objectives and that could be implemented as part of a
Bank-supported urban project;
(c)   Phase three (1987 to 1988) was centered on the design of the
necessary additional studies, resolution of institutional or
technical/financial prerequisites of the Project and consolidation
of previous progress.
17.         The Credit Agreements (Side Letter No. 6) called for a 10-point
action plan to finalize the taking of necessary decisions for the start-up of
technical assistance and to measure general project performance as regards
implementation. In June 1985, the date of the first supervision mission, the
degree of compliance with the plan was deemed to be very low, with the
exception of (i) the audit of the OHLM accounts; (ii) formal establishment of
the traffic bureau; (ii) [sic: ? iii] the interim report on the Cap Vert
traffic plan; and (iv) the interim report on the Dakar urban development
master plan. The planned actions ran into major implementation delays that
could not be totally attributed to the postponed implementation of the
project.
18.         Moreover, since the identification phase the operating technical
and financial conditions of the public entities had deteriorated
significantly, primarily because of the measures adopted regarding
restrictions on public operating expenses as well as poor resource
utilization. This had led to a critical shortage of funds and a virtual total
lack of means. Even if it had wanted to, the Government was not able to honor
in full its commitments with regard to the physical implementation of the
project and effective mobilization of resources. This was true primarily for



- 8 -
the transportation and municipal components and, to a lesser extent,
investment programming, housing policy and project unit. During
implementation, they all ran into significant shortages with regard to
logistics (facilities and/or technical means) and marked financial
difficulties regarding counterpart funds (operating of services and
cofinancing of priority actions).
19.         As regards human resources, in several sectors the project faced a
shortage or limited availability of personnel (transportation, municipal and
investment programming components). In this respect, the newness of the
concept, introduction of a project structure within the normal operations of
the Government and the very modest compensation in view of the professional
profiles required, led to disaffectation on the part of local counterparts and
slow Government involvement. In addition, a lack of familiarity with the
Senegalese context on the part of certain consultants, the fact that previous
sectoral approaches were only partially taken into account and the specific
nature of a public sector in a developing country occasionally prevented a
satisfactory level of integration of technical assistance within the planned
timeframe. In view of this experience, the necessary correlation between the
means implemented and expected results was not made. At least, it does not
seem to have been reflected in practice. Remedial measures would nevertheless
have permitted greater participation and rigor on the part of the
administrative and technical departments. The major efforts made in this
regard by project management during a seminar (June 1985) concluding the
start-up phase did not produce the expected effects.
H.          Project Results
20.         In general, the results of the project can be considered
satisfactory in relation to its objectives. Owing to its extensive scope and
the diversity of studies (five main components and 30 subcomponents), only the
major achievements will be mentioned briefly. Physical progress and the
detailed sectoral results are given in Annex 1.
21.         It is premature to assess the project's impact on economic
performance, as numerous macroeconomic aspects have not been evaluated.
Nevertheless, the more comprehensive approach to urban problems, better
municipal management and formulation of a new housing policy clearly have been
beneficial in restoring local budget equilibria and restarting the
decentralization process. These improvements, resulting in part from a
comprehensive strategy and more consistent investment, were made possible only
by defining the urban sector itself and its hinterland. The comprehensive
approach and analysis of inter- and subsectoral relationships have produced,
in addition to modeling attached to the national planning system, a more
balanced approach to the sector and the start of a fertile dialogue among
ministerial departments. The changes in the master plans (urban development,
transportation, sanitation, etc., plans) bear witness to the progress made.
It is nevertheless unfortunate that the involvement of the local governments
in the design of central services is still limited.
22.         Because of previous reservations, decentralization and return to
the local governments of the full exercise of their powers required the



elimination of many institutional, financial and technical requirements. From
the institutional standpoint, an exhaustive analysis of the relationships
between the local governments and the State, city of Dakar and public
utilities led to a reformulation of the prerogatives and role of each party.
Conducted jointly with the financial and technical research, the approach was
characterized by considerable concern for feasibility. Several of the ensuing
recommendations were taken into account (deconcentration, cooperation between
local governments and central services), while others (local taxation, inter-
community solidarity, etc.) that were more complex to implement were examined
by the DC..
23.         The role of that supervisory body was redefined and its mission
adapted to the objectives of more decentralized management. In that respect,
its involvement in the identification and later implementation of recovery
strategies for the 12 communities in the interior heralded the start of a
practice involving more design and coordination than control. Moreover, the
role of the DCL in meeting the requirements for establishing municipal credit
attests to that new approach and the gradual move toward financial autonomy
for the local authorities.
24.         In view of those new local responsibilities, the prolonged
deterioration and ultimately sudden collapse of municipal finances, the only
alternative was drastic rehabilitation. The project permitted the
implementation of effective rehabilitation measures. Based on more realistic
management and monitoring tools, the preparation of truly balanced budgets and
realistic priority-setting with regard to operating expenditures are two
significant results from the financial standpoint.
25.         Control of the charges induced by the Technical Department, in
particular through employment quotas (15% reduction in the number of CUD
staffers) was accompanied by greater mobilization of local resources, as well
as the communities' own receipts received directly (market tax, advertising,
fiscal minimum), along with property taxes and retail licenses. The
establishment of a Receipts Division, better information to the public at
large and introduction of computerization permitting the monitoring of
taxpayers was also beneficial. Thus, Dakar, which in 1984 had a budget of
CFAF 4 billion, was able in 1987 to balance more than CFAF 8 billion in
expenditures. This good performance nevertheless is partially due to the
offsetting of public debts and gradual depreciation (at the rate of CFAF 300
million per year) of the former Dakar commune.
26.         As regards the services rendered to the population, changes in the
budget enabled the Technical Deparzment to replace obsolete and inoperative
municipal services, and resume the urban services programming and management
process. Supported by project expertise, that gradual resumption in activity
was physically reflected in the rehabilitation, maintenance and cleaning of
roads and partial rehabilitation of State-owned properties. Following a
diagnostic study of all insufficiencies, this was made possible only through a
sweeping reorganization and implementation of a two-year priority action plan
involving regulatory and budget as well as technical issues.



- 10 -
27.         Although recovery was limited by a shortage of means, gaining
control of the operating budget nevertheless made it possible to resume the
financing of vital investments. Far from responding to real needs, operating
expenditures from 1984 to 1988 increased slowly but steadily from CFAF 235
million to CFAF 561 million. This modest result which is highly dependent on
overall equilibrium is nevertheless still considerable.
28.         Lastly, the new vitality in Dakar's public services led, following
the eventual transfer of technology, to the involvement of local officials in
traffic and transportation policies managed by a Traffic Bureau. Receiving
support from CIDA, with vital expertise and tools, the project made it
possible to update the traffic plan, ensure its management and prepare the
priority actions. Gradually incorporated within the Government, the new
structure is today managing urban traffic.
29.         In order to ensure their sustainability, the foregoing objectives
included a major component for "human resources management and training."
Although that component was fully implemented for staff of the Traffic Bureau,
the accompanying recasting and reorganization of municipal services was only
modest. Delays in the identification of personnel and needs, late adoption of
priority actions for the medium run and the reduced operating capability of
the municipal unit were responsible for the very partial implementation of
programs. The results from the standpoint of training can be considered weak.
30.         Despite the establishment of an Urban Development Division, the
slow deployment of municipal services and decision to use sectoral supervision
for the project undermined involvement of the local authorities in
implementing the housing policy and urban development components. This is
regrettable, as local officials often need to ensure in full or in part the
financing of infrastructure and support the recurrent maintenance charges.
31.         As part of the new housing policy, the housing finance analysis
was the first overall look in Senegal at the sector and remains a point of
reference for any sectoral research. It largely helped formulate the
production system for low-cost housing, evaluate affordable demand, means of
financing and mechanisms for mobilizing resources and savings. The proposals
(technical and financial standards, construction price series, self-
construction assistance) helped reduce certain constraints on the sector and
prompted the BHS to develop new products for both utilization and resources.
32.         To safeguard fragile budget equilibria and reduce or reallocate
its resources, the State took measures to improve the management of its
properties and the public real estate companies. In the first case, the
partial implementation of a decade-long program based on improved management,
elimination of the convention system and a refocusing of activity on its
property resulted in savings of CFAF 1.5 billion per year. In the second
case, the diagnostic study of dysfunctions and formulation of several
management scenarios finally led the companies to recovery measures (SICAP) or
to finalize a contrat-plan (SNHLM) with the State. Nevertheless, the mounting
delays and the persistence of behavior that ran counter to the objectives of
the urban policy delayed the impact of that component.



- 11 -
33.         As regards land development, the establishment of an urban
development company (under private law) and the resolution of the requirements
governing its activity are positive results of the project. That mixed
company responds to the dual need to increase the offer of lots free of taxes
on publicly-owned land and to ensure the integration of the various urban
functions. Acting on behalf of the State, its role is to carry out and
promote priority actions under Dakar's urban development plan. To that end,
it uses the principles of incremental development on the basis of
infrastructure grids leading to subsequent improvement at less cost. The
project also helped carry out the prefeasibility studies for the 10-year
activity program that would make it possible to satisfy 25% of affordable
demand each year. The technical studies of a first 100-ha operation and
access to BHS financing ensure that it will be immediately operational. This
result was nevertheless obtained only at the cost of a partial trade-off of
the project's social objectives and a general raising of infrastructure
levels.
34.         The findings of those studies lastly made it possible to identify
and prepare an Urban Management and Development Project receiving assistance
from the Bank. A logical extension of the Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project, it is consolidating its achievements and
prolonging the effects.
I.          Proiect Sustainability
35.         The Bank's macroeconomic and long-term concerns, which were more
institutional than physical, did not fully satisfy the aspirations of the
Borrower. Moreover, the project and its changes cannot reasonably be expected
to be fully effective solely during implementation. To ensure greater
sustainability, the Bank had recommended that a National Urban Development
Committee be established with extensive jurisdiction and decision-making
power. That body, which was not established, could have both capitalized on
the experience of the project and unified future sectoral strategies.
36.         However, the enhanced intersectoral relationships, taking into
account the needs of urban development and decentralization as well as the
gradual adoption by government offices of the concepts and methodologies
tested under the project, are solid bases that can ensure maintenance and in
some cases an improvement of the results already reaped. In general, these
involve (i) better municipal management; (ii) the ongoing reorganization of
public services and the urban transportation policy; and (iii) more
appropriate mechanisms for housing programming and finance. There should be
no major challenge to their management by personnel with refined tools for
more clear-cut tasks.
37.         The continuing nature of the actions taken was also strengthened
by the project, although it is highly contingent on the following conditions,
whose emergence or worsening would be very detrimental:
(a)   further deterioration in public finances, undermining -- owing to
the negative effects on local budgets -- the ability to provide



- 12-
services. In this respect, the sharp budget cuts (40%) may have a
negative effect in FY90-91;
(b)   overlapping of institutional (establishment of new local
governments) and administrative (organization of ministerial
powers) reforms could result in disorganization and prevent the
attainment of the medium- and long-term management objectives;
(c)   testing by the civil service of a voluntary departure policy,
which, despite its positive effects on the wage bill, could
ultimately deprive the State and local communities of some of
their most experienced higher-level staff.
J.          Bank Performance
38.         The Bank's involvement in the preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the project largely helped improve the urban sector and
municipal management in the Dakar region. In addition, IDA's help in setting
up the project and its implementation clearly led to a more fruitful dialogue
between parties who often had sectoral and hence narrow outlooks.
39.         In general, the Bank's efforts were satisfactory and project
design good. Following two urban projects, the Bank was seeking to
consolidate the achievements and carry out a more ambitious pilot project
involving a greater number of parties and executing agencies. Owing to the
high risk of such an undertaking, the Bank had recommended supervision of 70
weeks, which is substantial for a project normally implemented over 30 months.
In fact, the reduction in supervision (in relation to appraisal projections)
and very limited use of expertise significantly undermined the quality of
monitoring.
40.         The intermingling beginning in April 1986 of supervision tasks
with the identification of a subsequent urban project also interfered with the
time spent on meeting the first objective. To meet all performance targets
under the project, it would have clearly been more advisable to plan
preparation and then the effectiveness of the new credit agreement in
accordance with a timetable that safeguarded the completion of the current
project. Moreover, the turnover of project officials, in the wake of internal
reorganization, a lengthy interruption in 1988 and a lack of regular analyses
of general project performance also weakened the effects of supervision.
41.         More fundamentally, it appears that the Bank allowed, without a
true objective basis, the project to be based on overestimated results from
the Senegalese economic recovery program. In this respect, the limited number
of effectiveness requirements and conditions is significant. Although it made
it possible to shorten the duration of preparation and facilitated
negotiations, this merely postponed the emergence of certain problems. The
first supervision missions found progress on certain actions decided between
the parties to be poor. Subsequently, the Bank seems to have demonstrated
optimism that did not take into account the real conditions surrounding
project implementation. Closer supervision would have unquestionably helped



- 13 -
correct the gaps and led to prompter decisions more consistent with the Credit
Agreements.
42.         On the basis of this experience, the Bank can draw three main
lessons from its involvement. First, it appears that the ongoing nature and
regularity of supervision are two key conditions for the success of a project
in a sensitive sector. Secondly, as regards the resolution of policy-related
issues and the formulation of basic orientations, the timeframes must be more
realistic than those planned in the initial timetable. Thirdly, the
multisectoral dimension and greater number of administrative entities involved
require specific procedures and regular assessments based on prior contractual
commitments that are sanctioned by the gradual disbursement of the credit
proceeds.
K.          Borrower Performance
43.         Overall, the performance of project beneficiaries can be
considered satisfactory, especially given the fact that a delicate approach
was used.  Project risks lay primarily in maintaining government commitments
to manage urban growth efficiently, in the smooth running of the Steering
Committee to ensure liaison between the authorities or government offices
involved in urban management and lastly in the real compliance of public
agencies with the comprehensive policy adopted. In a context of economic and
financial belt-tightening and a worsening of resource constraints, these risks
did materialize in part during implementation.
44.         In this respect, despite the concern for efficiency demonstrated
by project management, the prolonged vacancy in the technical department did
not enable the Borrower to (i) ensure regular accounting of the actions
undertaken and the quality of studies carried out; (ii) meet its commitments
with regard to technical and financial progress reports (quarterly and six-
monthly); or (iii) develop indicators to assess project performance in
relation to its environment.
45.         From the standpoint of economic analysis, the Borrower largely
overestimated the achievements of the medium-term recovery plan (PALM). In
point of fact, the critical situation (both structural and financial) of the
public entities involved in the project was not reflected in realistic
projections. This error led to an underestimation of the difficulties
encountered in meeting the political, institutional and financial conditions
required for smooth implementation.
46.         Moreover, implementation of the short-term plan called for by the
Credit Agreements based on 10 priority action3 was late and limited. With the
exception of several technical measures, the implementation of that plan was
such that it was not possible to finalize the decisions vital for making best
use of the technical assistance or to measure the general performance of the
project through its implementation. This general situation, exacerbating the
deficient decision-making in municipal management and sharing of responsi-
bilities in urban and transportation policy, caused a significant lack of
precise guidelines from the outset, triggering conflicts of jurisdiction and
often holding the project back. On this last point, the extent to which the



- 14 -
executing agencies agreed with project design and their commitment to the
requirements and objectives must be questioned.
47.         The Borrower could draw three main lessons from its involvement:
(a)   The use of a team approach to management and consultation bodies
must be accompanied, to avoid any misunderstanding or overlapping
of jurisdiction, by in-depth preliminary dialogue that produces
terms of reference detailing the prerogatives of each entity;
(b)   The technical executing agencies must be involved in project
formulation starting with the identification stage. To that end,
they must strengthen their design capability and streamline
administrative procedures; and
(c)   The provision of counterpart funds for minimal operations of the
technical entities of a project ensures good physical preparation,
efficient implementation and satisfactory results.
L.          Relationship Between the Borrower and the Bank
48.         The President's Report bears witness to the particular attention
paid by both parties to project preparation, as they wished to avoid the
difficulties encountered under the Sites and Services Project. To that end,
the formulation of macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, the expected
benefits, roles and responsibilities of the management bodies, executing
agencies and technical assistance were first examined by in-depth studies,
resulting in lasting dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower.
49.         Moreover, project monitoring and the frequency and nature of
financial and technical reports kept the Borrower sufficiently involved in the
process as a whole. With the exception of specific contradictions inherent in
policy management, the objectives were viewed similarly by the two parties.
50.         The innovative concept and establishment of good relations with
the Borrower made possible a fruitful undertaking in the urban sector. Often
perceived as an intermediary between prerogatives and sectoral interests, the
Bank demonstrated adaptability and flexibility in resolving complex issues.
In most instances, the necessary compromises were found.
M.          Consulting Services
51.         The project relied on technical assistance from outside experts.
Depending on the extent of the Borrower's sectoral experience, that technical
assistance took the form of short-term missions, advisory assistance or the
involvement of resident specialists. In the case of studies and management,
the services to be provided had institutional, technical and financial
aspects.
52.         During the first quarter of 1985 (February), five study contracts
were given to the consultants responsible for technical assistance, relating
to the following project components and groups:



-15 -
-     Project steering                                  EPEVRY
-     Urban investment programming                      CEGIR
-     Urban development and housing policy              OTUI
-     Municipal policy                                  BCEOM
-     Transportation policy                             LAFERRIERE
53.         For the project as a whole, the expert services were found by the
Borrower to be good and of a high professional level. For the most part they
were provided in a timely manner, although those involving (i) investment
programming; (ii) the feasibility of development operations; and (iii) the
training plan experienced delayed implementation because of the approval
procedures.  The preparation of a subsequent urban project and extension of
the project's mission in certain cases prompted the Borrower to strengthen and
prolong the missions. This was particularly true for the housing, municipal
policy and transportation components.
54.         The transfer of technology was real and of a satisfactory quality
for the components as a whole. Cooperation between consultants and
beneficiaries was often fruitful and well integrated. Exceptions would be the
"investment programming" and "project steering" components, the first never
having truly been integrated into the Planning Department and the second
having prematurely ended.
N.          Project Documentation
55.         As an appraisal report was not issued for the project, the
President's Report was the basic document used in implementing the operations
by component and for supervision. It became evident during implementation
that a more detailed document highlighting the major focuses would have
provided a better understanding of approaches and helped the supervision
missions.
56.         Moreover, despite their regularity, the supervision reports were
often incomplete and gave limited data on general project performance. That
situation was particularly problematic as the Borrower did not carry out the
planned technical evaluations.



16 -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT ANI. EHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSIT1.NCE PROJECT
(CREDITS 1458-SE AND SF-13)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.          Overview
57.         On July 20, 1984, the Senegalese Government and the World Bank
signed two Credit Agreements totaling about CFAF 2.6 billion to finance the
Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project (Second Urban
Project), as a follow-up to the Bank's initial activities in the urban sector
related to sites and services.
58.         The project was an integrated operation consisting of four
components, with activities concentrated in the Dakar region, which
encompasses the city of Dakar and the adjacent communes. Such a project might
seem to pose complex problems as regards the coordination of the various
components and sector policies, and this was in fact the case. It entailed a
wide range of issues, from macroeconomic analysis to municipal finance, and
spanning urban development, housing finance, transportation planning, and
traffic management.
59.         The studies performed as part of the project provided the
necessary framework for developing an overall urban strategy, and addressed
the most urgent problems facing the capital. The Project also included an
action plan based on proposed courses of action to be adopted by the
authorities for improving the context for the implementation of a new urban
policy.
B.          The World Bank and Senegal
60.         Attention was drawn to the need for possible World Bank action in
the urban sector as a result of a meeting held on January 18, 1983 at the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation to discuss the institutional and
financial aspects of the Cap Vert Urban Development Master Plan.
61.         In July 1983, after a second World Bank mission, agreement was
reached on an analysis of urban sector problems and the terms of reference for
studies and other activities, to be part of an urban project financed by the
World Bank. The Bank's first mission (for identifying an appropriate sphere
of activities in the urban sector) took place in February 1983.
62.         After signature of the Credit Agreements, the World Bank sent only
two missions exclusively for the purposes of supervision. These were in June
1985 and January 1986. This was because the terms of reference for the
various studies and services had been clearly defined by the parties. From



- 17
then on (i.e. from the May 1986 supervision mission), identification of the
Urban Management and Development Project was easy.
63.         By the end of the supervision mission by Messrs. F. Pechon and
P. Blanchet (November 21-29, 1988), all components of the Project had been
completed, aside from the preparation of designs for SCATTURBAM and a study of
SICAP. At each stage, the supervision missions and the harmonious
relationship between Senegalese and World Bank staff enabled progress on the
components to be assessed and the necessary guidelines and instructions to be
issued. In fact, the views of the World Bank and the Senegalese Government
were identical throughout project implementation.
C.          The Project Unit and Problems of Coordination
64.         The project unit was accommodated in the Ministry of Planning.  It
successfully supervised all the project components, in accordance with the
Credit Agreements and World Bank guidelines and in line with Senegalese
legislation. The project unit was the main interlocutor for the World Bank.
The technical executing agencies were responsible for ensuring the proper
implementation of sector policies in the various components, in cooperation
with the consulting firms.
65.         Although overall the project objectives of preparing studies and
undertaking activities leading to the identification and implementation of the
Urban Management and Rehabilitation Project were achieved, the Project did
suffer from the following shortcomings:
(a)   There was no clear definition in any terms of refsrence of the
operational relationship between the project unit and the
technical executing agencies, and this often led to conflicts
regarding their respective jurisdictions.
(b)   In the first year of implementation, the staff of the project unit
had not been trained in the procurement and accounting procedures
prescribed by the World Bank and the Senegalese Government. The
technical assistance provided by EPEVRY was not very effective.
(c)   There was a clear need for a project monitoring and supervision
agency at national level, similar to the Steering Committee that
had successfully overseen the negotiations.
66.         This is to be regretted, because there were undeniable links among
the various components:
(a)   It is impossible to establish a fiscal cadastre without first
drawing up and implementing an urban development plan.
(b)   The design and implementation of the transportation and traffic
plan and the urban development plans are inextricably linked.
(c)   Municipal capital investment is an integral part of urban
development plans, and must be coordinated with them.



18 -
Consequently, the links among the various modules should have been
coordinated.
D.          The Steering Committee
67.         In February 1983, a Steering Committee consisting of
representatives of all the ministries concerned with the urban sector was
established. Discussions between the World Bank and the Steering Committee
led to an agreement in March 1983 on the terms of reference for a preliminary
study.
68.         That preliminary study, supervised by the Steering Committee, was
prepared by a team of Senegalese specialists from the public and parapublic
sectors and French staff from EPEVRY. The interim report produced by the team
in Match 1983 and the final report in July 1983 provided a basis for
discussions between the Senegalese Government and the World Bank.
E.          The Monitoring Committee
69.         The Monitoring Committee for the project was really a continuation
of the Steering Committee. It was established in February 19C3 to serve as an
interlocutor for the World Bank. It included representatives from all of the
technical executing agencies for the various components, and from the other
offices involved in the Project.
70.         The Monitoring Committee was therefore established, chaired by the
Planning Director of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, and composed of
representatives of the Ministries of Decentralization, Planning and
Cooperation, Urban Development and Housing, Equipment, Economy and Finance,
and the Interior, together with representatives of SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELEC,
and the city of Dakar. It was to examine project studies and reports and
recommend the appropriate measures for achieving project objectives.
Unfortunately, the Committee met only twice, at the beginning of the Project,
and the components were simultaneously implemented by the various agencies
without any contacts or intercommunication among the various parties.
F.          The Technical Director
71.         The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing was to assist the
Ministry of Planning in coordinating the Project. It therefore appointed a
senior official to be the Technical Director of the project unit. However,
the Technical Director was almost never available, and this, combined with the
high turnover of appointees, was detrimental to consistency and progress.
G.          The Planning Department
72.         It is only recently that the Planning Deparcment has begun to
address the urban sector explicitly, as a resuit of the Urban Management and
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project (second phase). The studies
undertaken in this component provided a clearer view of the sector, and
improved overall and regional planning. The data produced for the studies of



- 19 -
urban centers meet the needs of planning specialists dealing with the
preparation, selection and prioritization of investment projects.
73.         In addition, the information in the studies provides an
opportunity for refining the assessment of community needs and the production
apparatus, and can thus facilitate the formulation of urban policy.
Nevertheless, a number of problems arose and affected the development and
coordination of the component. Technical assistance -- planned to last two
years -- was delayed. so that achievement of the various objectives was
uncoordinated. In particular, computerization became the final step in the
process, and the planned transfer of technology was not possible.
74.         In addition, action on this component was sometimes indecisive, so
much so that it was very difficult to provide even a minimum of satisfactory
working conditions when technical assistance was introduced. In practice,
informal contacts proved more important than the formal relationships,
particularly because none of the planned coordinating mechanisms really
worked.
75.         Because of this problem and the imminent end of the technical
assistance contract period for this component, the Planning Department, in
cooperation with the two project experts, prepared a further project entitled
Am6lioration de 1'Inc=gration de la Planification Nationale et Urbaine
(Enhanced Integration of National and Urban Planning), the purpose being to
consolidate the achievements of the component and properly integrate the
functions and results of urban capital investment planning into the overall
planning system. In August 1988, the project documentation was submitted to
CIDA, together with an application for financing.
H.          DCH (Construction and Housing Department)
76.         Under the "housing policy" component, a price series for
construction was prepared and technical assistance provided for the DCH. A
support program was formulated for the Department, so that this instrument
could be made permanent and disseminated. It consisted of the following:
(a)   introduction of the necessary provisions for periodically updating
prices;
(b)   management and dissemination of the series within the construction
sector;
(c)   development of the series, in particular by incorporating building
rehabilitation and plot servicing;
(d)   establishment and management of the BNPC (National Bureau of
Construction Prices).
77,         There was no follow-up to the proposal, and it can therefore be
considered that so far the study has not had the effect it deserved, in light
of the importance of the work and the advantages it would provide for
establishing standards in the construction sector.



- 20 -
I.          Urban Development and Architecture Department
78.         The study on the preparation of infrastructure standards had a
real impact on the approach adopted by the Urban Development and Architecture
Department. The study had direct effects on the planning of SCAT-URBAM land
development operations. More generally -- and although the direct impact
cannot be quantified -- consultations with the offices responsible for urban
development most certainly contributed toward bringing about the following
changes:
(a)   The inclusion of the concept of incremental plot servicing in the
new Urban Development Code.
(b)   The infrastructure grids previously adopted for urban development
plans (i.e. for Dakar) have now been adjusted in light of the need
for savings.
(c)   Infrastructure costs are taken into account in detailed urban
development studies.
(d)   Methods are being sought for recovering development costs, even in
the case of publicly-owned plots.
J.          Strengthening of the DGPB (State-Owned Properties Management
Departmentl
79.         So far, this program, which required a commitment of CFAF 4.3
billion over four years, has not been established. Nevertheless, a number of
related projects have been launched. First, measures have been adopted for
preventing further renting and making housing no longer subject to special
agreements. This has produced budget savings of about CFAF 1.5 billion.
Another important item is the FAC-supported Projet d'Assistance a la Gestion
du Patrimoine BAti (State-Owned Properties Management Assistance Project),
providing for the establishment and computerization of management, together
with a maintenance plan.
K.          SICAP (Socift6 Immobiliere du Cap-Vert) and SNHLM (Societ6
Nationale des Habitations a Loyers Moderes)
80.         The identification of measures for increasing the efficiency of
the planned housing policy included action involving SICAP and the former
OHLM. Various scenarios for the future of those enterprises were proposed,
including decreasing the government share in their management or developing
them further, with -- in the case of SICAP -- some form of privatization.
Consideration of these scenarios served to assist the two agencies in the
preparation of recovery plans.
81.          SICAP and SNHLM are currently implementing strategic recovery
planE. In any case, the studies prepared in connection with this component of
the project have been very profitable, and have produced positive effects for
recovery in this sector of housing production. Nevertheless, since the entire
system of housing finance is now geared toward ownership, these agencies now



21 -
depend for their survival on the development of promotion activities.
However, over the long term their stock of rental properties may disappear.
L.          SCAT-URBAM (Central Land Development Aaencyl
82.         It was unanimously acknowledged that the system of housing
production was facing a bottleneck with regard to the servicing of plots that
would be affordable to all segments of housing demand, particularly plots for
self-construction. It was therefore decided to establish an agency for
developing sites "that could attract a major part of the land market by being
offered in significant numbers at competitive prices and with considerably
better conditions as regards title and infrastructure" than the existing
market.
83.         The preparation mission for the establishment of the Agency took
place within the framework of the project unit for the Urban Management and
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project. SCAT-URBAM was established in
June 1988 to provide builders (i.e. public and private promoters),
cooperatives and individuals with standardized plots that had been serviced
and rationalized from the viewpoint of land use and the inclusion of the
necessary elements for an urban center (i.e. productive activities, schools
and other community facilities).
(a)   As regards the first point, the procedures for establishing the
agency were not easy, particularly with respect to the capital
stock contributed by private stockholders. This explains the
delay in the establishment of SCAT-URBAM, which was in June 1988,
a full year after the end of the preparation mission.
(b)   As regards the second point relating to the land development
operations, the orders declaring such operations to be in the
public interest and approving detailed Urban Development Plans
were issued within the normal timeframe, but were sometimes
considered extreme.
M.          The Traffic Bureau
84.         The Traffic Bureau was established in April 1985 and is
accommodated in premises rehabilitated by the project unit, which provided it
with the necessary equipment for start-up. Although there have been missteps
in staff hiring, the Bureau now obviously has competent staff for performing
its functions. It consists of two units: the information and data management
unit and the studies and monitoring unit. Since being established, the Bureau
has undertaken various important activities, but a regular budget allocation
must be provided to enable it to continue operating.
N.          Local Government Department
85.         The following proposals submitted by consultants have been
implemented:



- 22
(a)   The ministry's ex-ante supervision now means that the communes
prepare realistic budgets based on properly rationalized items.
(b)   The establishment of municipal income units has improved the
control of directly collected municipal revenues (i.e. from real
estate sales and property income).
(c)   As a result of the computerization of municipal revenue collection
in Dakar, recoveries and the positions of taxpayers in arrears can
now be more satisfactorily monitored.
(d)   A number of problems are hindering the repayment by CUD of the
debts owed by the former Dakar commune (identified in another
report), because CUD is having to meet other expenditures.
86.         The terms of reference for technical assistance provided for the
following two items, which have been produced:
(a)   a diagnostic study of the Department with respect to its
organization and the application of effective mechanisms, methods
and procedures;
(d)[sic]    a study on the introduction of municipal credit.
Some technical assistance activities could not be properly performed,
particularly those relating to training and to increasing the efficiency of
tax collection.
0.          CUD (City of Dakar)
87.         The proposal that the membership of the CUD Committee be increased
was implemented, and the 1990 reform expanded the number of commune delegates
to CUD from 10 to 15 (i.e. 5 for Dakar, 3 for Pikine, 3 for Guediawaye, 2 for
Rufisque and 2 for Bargny).
88.         The proposal to re-establish the maintenance of certain urban
services relating to safety continues to be important. CUD is responsible for
maintaining street lighting and public toilets.
89.         The lighting system has recently been extended to the road leading
to the airport, the highway, and the eastern Corniche. CUD's Technical
Services Department is currently discussing an appropriate system for managing
public toilets.
90.         It has been proposed that a system be introduced for preventing
wastage of drinking water from standpipes, since these involve great expense
to the communes. A start has been made on this proposal with the development
of individual connections and the idea of introducing payment for the use of
standpipes. Other proposals regarding the collection of household waste and
the supervision of public utilities (i.e. SENELEC, SONEES, SONATEL and SIAS)
continue to be very important.



- 23 -
91.         Technical assistance made it possible to perform an in-depth
diagnostic study of STCUD (CUD's Technical Services), which were lamentably
underequipped and overstaffed. Loans made under the Project have made it
possible to repair the equipment that could be salvaged and to acquire other
essential items. Although the personnel did not receive the training that was
originally platned, over this period CUD management hired STCUD staff of a
high standard.
P.          CIDA (Canadian International Development Association)
92.         Cofinancing from CIDA consisted of a grant of Can$250,000 to cover
the final activities of the consulting firm providing technical assistance for
the Traffic Bureau.



- 24 -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFQRMATION
A.           Bank Lending to the Urban Sector
Table 1: Bank Lending to the Urban Sector
Credit               Title            Year Approved         Amount
336-SE         Sites and Services              1972         US$8 M
1061-SN        Urban Sector                    1980        US$5.3 M
SF-13-SE       UMRTAP                          1984         SDR 2.8 M
1458-SE        UMRTAP                          1984        SDR 2.9 M
1884-SE        UMDP                            1988        SDR 32.5 M
2075-SE        AGETIP/PWEP                     1989         US$20 M
93.          The Goverment of Senegal asked IDA to help it solve the various problems
encountered in shifting from State-controlled urban development and housing to a more
decentralized policy open to the private sector. In that context, Credit(s) 1458-SE and SF-13
essentially mark the start of a new role for the State; the Credits helped in implementing the
new policy and reducing the drain of urban development on the public coffers. In that
respect, the project largely contributed to the birth of the Urban Management and
Development Project.



- 25 -
B.           Er.Qim  akh
Table 2: Principal Dates in the Life of the Project
Item                                  Programming       Revision       Actual
First mention of the project          1982           _                 02/83
Project appraisal                     07/83             07/83          10/04/83
Negotiations                          11/83             11/83          03/03/84
IDA President's Report                                   -             03/27/84
Board Approval                        01/84             02/84          04/17/84
Signature of Credit Agreements        03/84             03/84          06/20/84
Effectiveness of Agreements           07/84             07/84          11/19/84
Closing date                          12/31/87           12/31/88      12/31/89
End of operations                     12/31/89          06/30/90       06/30/90
Comments on oroiect management timetable
94.          The project was appraised in October 1983. Negotiations were held in Paris
in the first week of March 1984 and the IDA Board approved the operation on April 17,
1984. Despite this rapid succession of the various phases of project preparation, there were
subsequent delays. Thus, despite the urgency that the Government stated it accorded the
operations, project signature took place three months late and effectiveness five months after
the initially scheduled date. The possible reasons for these delays are linked primarily to the
newness of the undertaking, gaining familiarity of Bank procedures as well as administrative
red tape in satisfying the conditions for effectiveness. The closing date was extended by one
year and a second request made for a further extension. The Bank refused to extend the
closing date a second time, but authorized disbursements on operations already committed for
an additional period of six months. Because of that measure, the last activities (involving
assistance to the land development agency) could be completed on June 30, 1990.



-26 -
Table 3: Technical Assistance Timetable
Project Component                   Projected               Actual           Duration
Urban Investment
Programming                   09/85 to 07/87         01/86 to 10/88        15 months
Housing and Urban
Development Policy            03/85 to 10/87         03/85 to 06/89        20 months
Transportation Policy         04/85 to 04/87         06/85 to 11/88        19 months
Municipal Policy              03/85 to 03/87         03/85 to 12/87        09 months
Project Oversight/
Management                    03/85 to 10/87         03/85 to 01/86            N/A
Comments on the physical implementation timetable of the proiect
95.           A comparison of the planned and actual dates of physical implementation
shows, on average for the main components of the project, a delay of more than one year.
The lag for the urban development component alone (regarding land development) was in
excess of two years. Although planned from January 1985 to December 1987, the project
was actually executed from March 1985 to December 1988, when virtually all tasks identified
by the terms of reference had been completed. The studies or actions yet to be completed or
undertaken were finished in June 1990, i.e., 30 months after the date set by identification or
18 months beyond the initially scheduled closing date set in the Credit Agreements (December
31, 1988). These last works were completed in tandem with the effectiveness of the
Agreement for the Urban Management and Development Project (November 3, 1988).
C.    Credit Disbursements (in thousands of USS)
Table 4: Schedule of IDA Disbursements under Credits 1458-SE & SF-13
Am,.  -       . _    ,Cumulative
Expenditu                           Acal
IDA Fiscal Ycar   Appraial      Commimded       %     Appmial     Expenditure    %
1984                     -          105.40    1.5%                    105.40    1.5%
1985                  1,500.00     2,476       33%       1.500      2,582      34.5%
1986                  1,500.00     1,914       25%       3,000       4,495      60%
1987                 2,000.00      1,713       23%     5000         6.209     82.5%
1988               1  ,000.00       741        10%      6,000        6,951      93%
1989                                5 541      7%           -        7,493     100%
UWOWW~~~~~ 



-27 -
Table 5: Consolidated situation (in thousands of US$)
Fisca Year         Appmial         Revixion       Expendiures     Disburanwm           %
Cornunittd                       Disbursed
1984                      .105                                           105              1.26%
1985                  1,330.00        1,330.00         2,585           1,422             17.10%
1986                  1,660.00        1,660.00         2,135           1,011             12.10%
1987                  1,660.00        1,960.00         2,020           2,489             29.90%
1988                  1,330.00        1,565.00          930            2,307             27.70%
1989                    670.00         808.86           556              644              7.70%
1990           .                                                         354              4.20%
TarAL                 6,650.00        7,323.86         8,333            8,333              100%
Comments on disbursements
96.             All proceeds of Credits 1458-SE and SF-13 were disbursed under the projects.
The credits were utilized rapidly, as in year one 34% of the funds were used. During the
second year 25% was used and the pace was sustained in the third year (23%). 82.5% of the
funds under the two credits were disbursed by the end of the third year.
D.              Proiect implementation
Table 6: Utilization of credit proceeds (in thousands of US$)
SUMMARY OF THE UTILIZATION OF IDA FUNDS BY COMPONENT
Ref.   COMPONENT                       1985      18        1987     198t      1989      TOTAL
a    Invec4nen Progamnming           179       183      134       11         -           509
b    Urban and Housing Policy       938       573       634      350      350          2,847
c    Trnaportton                    404        353      488      332       167          I,747
d    Municipal Policy               798        739      353       21       23           1,937
e    Projet Unit                    260         64     I10        25                     452
Total                        2,582      1,914     .713      741      541          7,493
_~-- 



-28 -
(a) UTLIZATION OF CREDfT SF-13 BY COMPONENT
Ref.    COMPONENr                       1985    1986    1987    198         1989| TOrAL CR.SPF13
a     Invtment Progrmniing              145      183      134     11       .        475
b     Urbn and Housing Policy                    61       _      350      311       722
c     Tmanportion                       294      345     477    332       167      1 618
d     Municipal Policy                   .       320      164    21        11       518
c     Project Unit                      131       11                                143
Total                             571      921     776    716       491      3 478
(b) UTILIZATION OF IDA CREDIT 1448 BY COMPONENT
Ref.    COMPONENT                        1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    TOTAL CR. 1458
a     Invcument Progrmmning             33       -       .                           33
b     Urban and Housing Policy          938     512     634       .       39       2 124
c    TMportaion                         110      7       11                         129
d     Municipal Policy                  798     419    189        .       11       1 418
o     Project Unit                      128      52    102       25       .         308
Total                           2 010      992    936       25      50       4 015
Table 7: Rate of Credit Utilization by Component
(a)      Annual utilization
Ref.    COMPONENT                 1985        1986        1987         1988        1989
a     Inveutmett                            9.59%        7.83%        1.60%       -
Progmmming                6.96%
b     Urban and Housing         36.36%      29.96%      37.02%       47.21%     64.72%
Policy
c    Transportation              15.68%    18.44%       28.53%       44.88%     30.98%
d     Municipal Policy           30.94%    38.64%       20.65%        2.88%      4.28%
e     Project Unit               10.07%     3.37%       5.97%         3.41%      0.02%
Total                       100%       100%        100%          100%       100%



- 29 -
(b)    Rate of utilization throughout the life of the project
Ref.       COMPONENT              1985      1986      1987       1988       1989     TOTAL
a    Inve1amt  Progrnming     3526%     36.04%    26.36%     2.34%       .        100%
b    Urban and Housing Policy    32.97%  20.15%    22.27%     12.30%     12.32%    100%
c    Txnportation             23. 16%    20.21%    27.97%     19.05%     9.61%     100%
d    Municipal Policy         41.24%     38.19%    18.27%      1.10%     1.20%     100%
o    Project Unit             57.51%     14.26%    22.61%     5.60%      0.03%     100%
Cogments on credit utilization
97.            During the first two years of the project, efforts focused on formulating the
housing policy and technical assistance to the municipalities (technical services and financial
management). During the second half of the project, the 'housing" portion of the component
received even greater attention, whereas the "transportation" part was fully developed.
E.      rgiect costs
Table 8:
Item (in millions of USS)                  Appraisal        Revision         Actual
Total project cost (USS million)           6.650            7,323.86         8,333
Overrun or reduction (in %)               __                11%              24.8%
Amount of credits (US$ million)            6.000            6,000            7,493
Disbursed                              _                                 8,333
Canceled                               ___
Utilization                                                                  100%
Economic rate of return                                                      N/A
Financial performance                     _                                  good
Comments on the variation in project costS
98.            Financial commitments were greater than the amount of the initial credits.
Essentially, this was due to the magnitude of fluctuations in the exchange rates and a lack of
forward-looking management of commitments and regular monitoring of accounts. Other
factors included, in particular:



- 30 -
*     the original orders, which had neither been properly evaluated or delivered on
time;
e     additional project activities, with the Bank's approval;
*     the belated taking into account of the consequences of revaluing and revising
the costs of the services provided by the various consulting firms, especially
in view of the fact that project implementation continued far beyond the initial
timeframe.
F.    Project financdin
Table 9: Origin and Distribution of Resources (in thousands of USS)
Gap
Source             Credit    Appraisal    Revision    Disbursement    (+ or-)
I Credits          SE 13        3,048.00    3,048.00        4,015         967
IDA     SF 1458      2,952.00    2,952.00        3,478         526
2 Local            Senegal        650.00     650.00           623         -27
3 Cofinancing      CIDA                      213.86           213.86
TOTAL                          6,650.00    6,863.86        8,333       1,466
Credits on the origin of funds
99.          The gap between the approved and revised amount results from an additional
CIDA funding (Credit 2437-SE) entitled a "bridge credit" for Can$250,000 (Agreement of
October 28, 1987).
The projected financing plan for the project was revised to allow time for the
additional works necessary for the completion of the various components. In addition,
because of a first contribution from CIDA the transportation portion could be extended, with
counterpart funds making it possible to cover the amounts committed. The gap in
disbursements and identified costs is about 25%, essentially attributable to wide swings in the
value of the SDR during project implementation.



- 31 -
Table 10: Breakdown of Credits by Category (in thousands of USS)
SUMMARY OF THE ALLOCATION OF IDA PROCEEDS BY CATEGORY OF
EXPENDITURE
Ref.   CATEGORY OF EXPENDITJUR               1985     1986    1987    i988    1989    TOTAL
I    CivilWorik s                                     .       320     -        28        349
2    Equipment, Matrials and Supplies        59      437      236    148       S0        932
3    Three Consulting Service.             2,465    1,435    1,063   593      462       6,019
4    Taining                                 21       41        6     .        .         130
S    Micellaneous                            36                25     -        -          62
Total                                2,582    1,914    1,713   741       541       7,493
(a) ALLOCATION OF THE PROCEEDS OF IDA CREDfT SF-13 BY CATEGORY OF
EXPENDITURE
Ref.   CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE               1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    TOTAL
Cr. SF 13
1    Civil Works                           .                 320      .        28        349
2    Equipmet, Mteriab and Supplies          =      415      115      124       =        655
3    Three Consulting Services             571      506      340      591     462       2473
4    Trining                                .-                                 -          -
5    Miscellaneous                                   .                .        . -
Totwl                                571      921      776      716      491      3 478
(b) ALLOCATION OF THE PROCEEDS OF CREDIT 1458 BY CATEGORY OF
EXPENDITURE
.   ....   _._-                         inn-m*
Ref.   CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE                  1985       1986      1987      1988      1989      TOTAL
Cr. 1458
1    Civil Work                                           .        -          -
2    Equipmcnt, Materials and Supplies        59        22        120       23         50           277
3    Three Consulting Sevices               1,893      928       722          1                   3,545
4    Training                                 24        41         68                        |       130
5    Miscllaneous                            36                  25                    * -          62
| Total                                 2,010       992       935        24        50          4,015



- 32 v
Table 11: Annual credit utilization by category
Rat   CATEGORY OP EXPENDiTURE    1985              1986        1987        1988       1989
1   Civil Works                                          _  18.70%                  5.28%
2    Equipment, Mearials and Supplies    2.30%   22.87%      13.79%      19.99%      9.35%
3   Consulting Service                95.47%     74.95%      62.05%     80.01%      85.38%
4   Tmining                           1.30%       2.14%       3.90%       ._ _
5    Micellmncoua                     0.80%                   1.50%        __            _
ToWa                              100%        100%       100%       100%       100%
Comments on allocations by category
100.            Project funds were largely (more than 80%) allocated to cover expenditures
associated with technical assistance experts. The equipment acquired by the project was for
the most part rolling stock for the city of Dakar.



- 33 -
G.   Con=aual Qsmimnla
Table 12: Commit in Side Letter No. 6 to the Credit Agreexents
Reference           Nature of the Commitment                       Status
A - (I) a          OHLM Audit before 30/0911984                    Satisfied 05/15/1985
A - (1) b           Notification by September 30, 1984 of measures
taken or to be taken to inprove the urvey of
clainm on plots nd the etablishment of housing
loasu                                          Satisfied 0511511985
A - (2)            Notifation by Septemb4r 30, 1984 of meamire
taken or to be taken to improve the mnobiizaion
of municipal resours                           Satisfied 11/30/1984
B - (1)            EsAblishmnt of the Traffic Bueau by Septenber   satisfied by 11/30/1984
30, 1984                _
B - (2)             Decision of the Government by December 12,
1984 regarding the split of responsibilities
between the centrml govenumcnt and Dakar for
infrsuctur  management and mintAennce          Decision not taken
B - (3)             Dei ion of the Government regarding the        Decision not taken
trunsportation plan before December 31, 1984
B - (4)            Amendment prior to December 31, 1984 of BHS     Satisfied, but the ttutes were not
matet to allow for loans to non-wage ermers    amended to achieve the project
objectives
B - (5)            Decision of the Goverment on the detailed Urban
Development M"ter Plan pnior to March 31,      Deciuon not taken
1985
B- (6)              Recommendations prior to June 30, 1985 on ways
to reduce subsidies to State-owned propeities and
MTimprve rent coUoction                        Satisfied by 7/30/1985
B- (7)              Propoal of the Govenmwent on the FECL prior to
June 30, 1985                                  Satiosied in June 1987
B - (8)             Establishment of an urban land development
agency prior to March 31, 1986                 Satisfid by May 28, 1988
Comments on contractlal commitments
101.             Few conditions were set for credit effectiveness and these presented .o real
difficulties. This situation had been designed so as not to delay project implementation.
Nevertheless, it became apparent that the lack of consideration or underestimating of
institutional, financial and technical prerequisites ultimately only postponed the emergence of
true problems. The following table shows that important decisions from the regarding the
general urban policy remain unresolved, primarily in terms of the allocation of responsibilities
and guidelines for the Transportation and Urban Development Plans.



- 34 -
H.    Resources allocated to the Eroject
Table 13: Utilization of Human Resources (in number of weeks)
Project Cycle                   Estimated        Revised       Actual
Prior to appraisal                       12            12             12
From appraisal to Board
approval
20            27.4           27.4
Froli Board approval to
effectiveness
3             3.6            3.6
During supervision
____________ ____________35                 43*             43
TOTAL                                    70            86             86
D During supervision, of the 43 weeks recorded, 28 weeks were used for missions.



- 35 -
Table 14: Missions
Misnion            Month/year    No. Weeks   No. Persona    No. Man-weeks   Date of Report
(i) Project Prpaation            _
Identification     01/83               1             1                1     02/15/83
Prpation           3/83                1             2               2      03/18/83
Appraiml           07/83               2             2               4          07/29/83
Negotiaion         03/84               1             2               2      03/04/83
TOTAL             15                                 7                9    1
(ii) Project Supervision
Supervision 1      06/85               1.5           2                3     07/01/85
Supervision 2      01/86               1.5           2               3      02/07/86
Supervision 3      05/86               2             2               3      06/18/86
Supervision 4      01/87               1.5           2               2      02/09/87
Supervision 5      05/87               1             1                1     05/09/87
Supervision 6      06/87               1             1                1     07/07/87
Supervision 7      11/87               1             1                1      11/06/87
Supervision 8      04/88               1.5           1                1     05/07/88
Supervision 9      06/88               2             2                3     07/06/88
Supervision 10     11/88               1             2               2       11/29/88
Supervision 11     10/89               1.5           1                1.5    10/27/89
Supervision 12     02/90               2             2               4       03/06/90
Supervision 13     06/90               1             1                1      06/22/90
Supervision 14     10/90               1             1                1      10/15/90
TOTAL                                 19.5                           28
Comments on supervision missions
102.            The supervision missions, beginning in May 1986, were for both the current
project and also for the identification of the UMDP. Beginning in November 1988, the
missions were concerned primarily with implementation of the UMDP and secondarily the
completion of the current project.



-36 -
I.      Proie  studi
Table 15: Project Studies
1. URBAN INWSTMENT PROGRAMMING (CEGIR)
t. Urban investment progmmuing     07/1985                   05/1986                         10 month.
II. HOUSING POLICY (OTUI)
A. HOUSING POLICY
1. Housing funac                   10/1985                   0211986                         04 mon.
2. Price setting                   05/1987                    10/1987                        05 moe.
3. Publicly-ownod renta            10/1985                    0211986                        04 moc.
propertie_
4. Public real estate
companies                       02/1986                    05/1989                        39 moe.
B. URBAN DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. Prefeuibility of                10/1985                   0211986                         04 moe.
operat one                        ._._.                                          .
2. Euabliuhmet of urban land       10/1985                    02/1986                        04 moe.
dev. co.
3. Infraructure levels             07/1985                    02/1986                        07 mor.
4. Feasibility of operations       10/1987                    11/1990                        31 moe.
5. Resaucturing of Pikine          10/1987                    11/1986                        N/A
C. ADDITIONAL STUDIES
.    Abilitation of Dakar       06/1986                   06/1986                         00 moe.
markets              ,_._
2. Identification Third Urban      12/1986                    01/1987                        01 mo.
Projoct
3. Prefeasibility of
operation - Lat Dior            06/1987                    06/1987                        00 moe.
4. State-owned properdes           12/1987                    12/1987                        00 moe.
HI. TRANSPORTATION POLICY (LAFERRIERE)
1. Updaing of truwpoAon
diagnostic studies               10/1985                   03/1986                         05 moe.
2. Updating of Traffic Plan
07/1985                   08/1985                         01 mo.
3. Progrmnuning and Budgeting
of Plan                          11/1985                                                   N/A
4. Programning briefs
plan implermntation             02/1986                                                    N/A



- 37 .
5. PDC PhtaJ 1: Pnory Pln           02/1986                   05/1986                         03
AP)                                                      
6. P         of                    03/1987                    11/1988                        21 mos.
_7. Ealuaion of PAP actions         03/1987                    11/1988                        21 mo.
Table 15 (continued): Project Studies
STUDY                         IPlauned Implemnentatton      Actual Implementation           Duration
IV. MUNICIPAL POLICY (BCEOM)
1. Institutional context        05/198S                     09/1985                        03 mos.
2. Local fianames               06/1985                     07/1985                         01 mos.
3. Technical deparments         0/19S                       08/1985                         00 nwo.
4. Tmining dignostic            06/1985                     04/1988                         28 mos.
study                       .                            _
5. Municipal credit             07/1986                     06/1987                         11 mos.
V. ADDMTIONAL STUDIES
1. Generl diagnostic study
of DCL                                                    05/1987                        N/A
2. Rehabilitation prognun
for 12 Comumune
12/1988                        N/A
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1. Project progres reports
01/1986                        N/A



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Detailed Analysis of Project Implementation
1.           Essentially aimed at measuring the impact of objectives regarding
management, innovative investment policies or the strengthening of administrative and
financial services through technical assistance, the evaluation of the project is complex, unlike
investment programs whose results are often more tangible. Exacerbating this difficulty, the
large number of components (5) and subcomponents (30), scope of study and diversity of
tasks could result in an overly general evaluation - masking significant implementation
disparities or failure to satisfy objectives - or, on the contrary, in a straightforward
chronology devoid of analysis. In order to report in detail on the rates of implementation,
degree to which the government offices integrated the concepts advanced, benefits reaped and
insufficiencies observed, the following analysis will first discuss each component and then the
major events that had a significant impact on the implementation of the components as a
whole. With a similar concern for clarity, this part will be limited to the impact of the
project on government agencies and parapublic companies.
1. URBAN INVESTMENT PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING
A.           Objectives
2.           The main objective of this component, for which implementation was
entrusted to the Quaternary Sector Unit of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, was to
develop, in terms of planning, the notion of the urban sector and to establish, as part of a
macroeconomic development strategy, the conditions for efficient management. More
specifically, it aimed at formulating a methodology and information analysis system permitting
(i) identification of the sector, its components and their reflection in the public investment
policy; (ii) compatibility of programmed investments in accordance with national, regional,
subsectoral and financial criteria or characteristics; and (iii) the selection and prioritization as
regards allocation of resources as well as the monitoring of projects included, in accordance
with refined modalities. Lastly, with regard to the previous experience in national planning,
the study was to make it possible, during the revision of the Seventh Economic and Social
Development Plan (1985-1989) to test the methodology and structure adopted. To that end,
the project included a three-month study phase and technical assistance over two years.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component
3.           During the first phase, the proposals and analysis of urban investments made
during the previous decade (1975-1985), made it possible, although belatedly, to design a
functional planning and programming model along with a data base characterized by its scope,
pertinence and reliability. That work, expanded to the problems of institutional focusing,
identification of sources and data processing as well as issues of economic analysis and project
impact led, through its actual proposals, to a better definition and more selective assessment
of Senegal's urban system in its globality and complexity. Moreover, the innovative light
thrown on the notion of the urban sector, the hinterland and the interactions of the system



- 39 -
with its subparts was one of the major achievements of this component and helped in the
redistribution of the scope of three-year public investment planning. Despite delays in
implementation and the revision of objectives that followed, project technical assistance under
the projects to the Planning Department was beneficial in continuing during the second phase
sectoral analyses, strengthening the new data base and the statistical processing of the
information collected. At the same time, the examination of the investment planning and
monitoring processes were carried out in conformity with the terms of reference.
4.           In general, implementation of the component resulted overall in a greater
understanding of the sector, formulation of proposals to improve planning and the
establishment of an information system meeting the needs of urban planners. With a view to
consolidating the achievements of the component, the executing agency had sought CIDA
assistance in 1988 to continue the studies aimed at improving the integration of national and
urban planning. Despite the promising nature of the results, the proposal went no further.
C.           Weaknesses
5.           The delays and the Government's recasting of the national planning system
made it impossible to either analyze or capitalize on the many results, og to incorporate the
proposals for the 1987 Three-Year Public Investment Plan. This partial success is apparently
due to the vagueness of the terms of reference and their unsuitability to a rapidly changing
context which hindered the development of the model within the desired timeframe. This
problem, corrected in January 1986 by the Borrower and the Bank for a long time prevented
the Planning Department, which was simultaneously heavily involved in the recasting of the
national planning system, from achieving objectives in which it perceived itself uninvolved.
6.           This relative disaffeciation and reservations as to the benefits of the proposed
concept and the tool are undoubtedly partially responsible for the insufficiency or lack of
human and logistical resources provided for component implementation. Established in a
climate of moroseness, the late provision of technical assistance to project management, and,
consequently, poor integration of experts within the executing agency did not promote the
transfer of technology or training of counterparts. In this regard, the reduced activity of the
coordinating entities (technical committee and department) and their little involvement in
settling disagreements between the planning and project departments did not help either
dissipate the mutual misunderstandings or curb the gradual erosion of the technical
partnership. Certain objectives such as the identification of selection criteria and formulation
of the means for monitoring programmed projects were only partially satisfied. Still others,
owing to the departre of the technical assistance experts and the limited availability of staff
from the Quaternary Unit, had to be dropped altogether. This last point is particularly true
for the analysis of the sectoral data that had not been processed and the taking into account by
the 1987-1990 PTIP of works published too late.
7.           Moreover, the desirability of establishing an urban planning unit within the
Departnent having the real means or capability of strengthening the Quatemary Sector Unit
was apparently not perceived. This is unfortunate, given the key role that such an entity
could have played in the development of interior cities. Moderately equipped with the vital
means for carrying out that task, the executing agency does not seem to have been able to use
or disseminate the information that it had or still has. In that respect, the negative effects of
the voluntary departures under the recent administrative reforms on the availability and



- 40 -
mobility of Department staff throw doubts upon its current ability to maintain and develop the
tool that it designed.
H. HOUSING AND URBAN POLICY
General Objectives of the Comnonent
8.           The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing had technical oversight for
this component which, for reasons of a functional nature rather than those related to its
objectives, was broken down into the following on studies:
(a)    Housing policy
(i)  study on housing finance;
(ii)  technical assistance for training and changes in housing prices;
(iii) study on the management of publicly-owned rental properties;
(iv)  study on the organization of parapublic real estate companies.
(b)    Urban policy
(i)  prefeasibility urban operations study;
(ii)  study on technical assistance for the establishment of a land development agency;
(iii) study and formulation of infrastructure standards;
(iv)  feasibility study for land development in Cap Vert;
(v)  study for the restructuring of central [irrfguliarJ Pikine.
(c)    Additional responsibilities
(i)  study on the management of State-owned properties;
(ii)  additional technical assistance for the land development agency;
(iii) prefeasibility study for the development of Camp Lat Dior.
9.           Together, these tasks were to be the basis for a housing and urban policy centered on
the more rational use of resources and redeployment of govermnent efforts to assist greater numbers
of beneficiaries. Owing to the many parties involved and unlike other components, technical
expertise was not physically placed with any specific structure. With the exception of the assistance
to the land development agency and, to a certain extent, the Housing and Construction Department,
this component was most often executed on time and in the form of missions or studies. It did not



-41 -
run into the difficulties inherent in the establishment of a unit or incorporation into a pre-existing
structure. On the date of effectiveness, implementation was nevertheless subject to the resolution of
several conditions, including the audit of the public construction companies and the finalization of the
Dakar urban development plan.
Housing Policy
Husin_ FinanC
A.            Qbiectives
10.          With a view to bettering the system for producing low-cost housing, the study aimed
at identifying affordable demand, analyzing the means of financing self-construction, mobilization of
resources and savings, participation of the primary banks and proposing of possible improvements.
B.            Benefits Induced by the Component
11.          As the first overall look at the sector, the study is still today a reference for any
research regarding the housing sector. By compiling basic economic data, it made possible a reliable
evaluation of affordable demand (with the exception of the rental market), an analysis of supply and
examined in detail the phenomenon of self-construction in its physical, land and financial aspects. It
moreover was the basis for an exhaustive table of the financial mechanisms and institutions involved
in housing finance and resource mobilization, which was used in making proposals to improve the
channels for collecting savings and the conditions for real estate credit and to optimize the
involvement of the public sector from the institutional and fiscal standpoints. The recommendations
helped mitigate and eliminate the constraints on the sector. What holds for the State is no longer true
for the BHS which, for several years, had been developing a strategy that tended to give priority to
development programs, self-construction and assistance to individuals rather than planned housing or
assistance with materials. Beyond its traditional products (twinned credits), with a view to greater
creditworthiness of the borrowers, the institution thus had proposed since 1989 a savings plan (plan
prtvisionnel d'dpargne - PPE) which provides eligibility, after two years of savings, to credit for
households that do not have wage income. Foregoirn the advantages of the past, it is also striving to
increase the number of small loans.
Training and Housing Prices
A.            Qbjectives
12.          This component, for which the DCH had technical oversight, sought to assess,
through various promotion operations financed by the Government or the BHS, the pertinence and
efficiency of the technical and financial standards determining the eligibility of housing for financing
assisted.
B.            Induced Benefits of the Component
13.          Following an analysis of housing cost prices, the component made it possible to
propose reference prices more consistent with the realities of the sector. In addition, at the request of
the developer and to substitute for the establishment of a construction price observation system, a



-42 -
price series was formulated, including some 2,000 price factors. This computerized tool was to make
it possible, through the existence of a reference system, to establish a common language among
government officials and professionals, to provide the latter with better background information and
to assist artisans and contractors in setting their prices.
14.          Continuing a study begun by UNDP and the DCH, the component helped identify the
technical prerequisites for the establishment of the Low-Cost Housing Assistance Office (Bureau
d'Assistance I l'Habitat Social - BASHO) and was valuable in developing for self-builders several
model documents assisting in tie design, appraisal and monitoring of operations (technical and
institutional as well as financial aspects). The share of self-construction in housing production (85%)
and the Government's policy supporting the cooperative movement made it possible to measure more
accurately the advantage to the Government of such a management tool.
C.           Wealesses
15.          Given the interest manifested by the ministerial departments and professionals
involved in the formulation phase, it is unfortunate that sufficient financial and human resources were
not made available to maintain, update and disseminate the tool. Unmanaged since 1988, the impact
of this study on construction standards is modest.
Management of Publicly-Owned Rental Properties and State-Oned Properties
A.           O iectives
16.          As public companies were studied elsewhere, the analysis focused on the
identification, means of occupation, cost and possible rehabilitation of State-owned real estate. Its
scope was limited to its goods and fixed assets subject to the convention system, administered by the
DGPB and used as housing or offices by the occupants. *The study did not seek to formulate a
general housing policy, but, owing to the magnitude of public funds allocated (CFAF 7 billion per
year, of which 4.5 to properties subject to the convention system), to the rehabilitation of public finances.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component
17.          After having a first diagnostic study in 1985 and proposed recommendations, in 1987
the study began to measure the impact and refine the terms of a 10-year rehabilitation program based
primarily on an improvement in management and maintenance procedures, new emphasis on its own
properties and an abandonment of the gcovention and svstem, the eviction of those without the right
to occupancy, amendment of the housing law, strengthening of services, implementation of a
maintenance plan and lastly the construction of a government building. The Bank, anticipating
financial assistance to the program, did not respond favorably. Since that time, various measures to
end the convention system and ensure regularization have led to budget savings of CFAF 1.5 billion
per year. In tandem and with FAC assistance, the DGPB has launched a 'State-owned properties
management assistance project" and the partial rehabilitation of the existing stock (300 units).
A.           Objective
18.          The confirmation of the housing policy based on priority for self-construction, support
for access to ownership (BHS) and segmentation of the production system profoundly altered the



-43 -
climate faced by the public construction companies. Moreover, given the dual constraint of an
unfavorable financial context and poor management, SICAP and OHLM saw their activities steadily
decline, their financial situations deteriorate and their role as a catalyst for low-cost housing
threatened. In order to preserve precarious equilibria and redefine a realistic strategy, It became
necessary to embark at once on a process of forward-looking analysis that could lead to the signature
of a cgntrat-ln with the State. To that end, three scenarios were formulated for each company by
the project. Simulating the downstream effects of contraction prior to liquidation and lastly possible
redeployment, they proposed, in addition to improving management performance, the following
measures: (i) restructuring and reduction of operating expenditures; (ii) partial (SICAP) or total
(OHLM) sale of rental properties; (iii) resumption of lease-purchase promotion activities for SICAP;
(iv) withdrawal from the construction sector for OHLM; and (v) unsubsidized development of sites
and services activities (OHLM).
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component
19.          Despite inquiries from the Bank and support provided by the project, it was not until
1990 that all documents were finalized. After several unsuccessful attempts involving the Senegalese
authorities and donors, SICAP justifiably came out in favor of a scaled-down project based on its
endogenous capacity and rehabilitated operations. On the basis of reliable documentation, it seemed
to have the resources guaranteeing the maintenance and subsequently growth in its activities, as the
result of the partial completion of a program to sell off the rental properties and pare the wage bill.
This rehabilitation program was to be completed during fiscal FY91. Under the express conditions
that the prerequisites actually be put into practice and the banking system be rehabilitated, the
company appears able to achieve the reasonable objectives set for itself. To that end it has
considerable human resources and experience that should not be overlooked under the pressures of
hasty privatization.
C.           Weakesses
20.          From 1985 to 1990, there was often no progress in introducing the foregoing
recommendations or formulating realistic rehabilitation programs. The internal constraints or
exogenous factors behind this relative disinterest would include the inefficiency of previous
contractual relations with the State, the frequent personnel changes within the supervisory body or
OHLM management and the steady decline in financing. SNHLM, which succeeded OHLM in 1988,
apparently has not succeeded in improving the situation it inherited. In the years that have elapsed
since that time, even though it does not bear the entire responsibility, the efforts to correct the errors
of a management that incurred operating costs totally inappropriate for the real level of activity and
used unreliable accounting procedures were limited. No marked improvement having been made,
only recourse to subsidies (concessional loans, contributions of fixed assets, reduced taxation) in the
land development activity has made it possible to cover the deficits resulting from its operations in the
housing sector.
21.           Apart from the fact that it runs counter to the Government housing policy and hinders
true competition, the maintenance of such a mechanism, which rewards poor perfornance, has been
one of the major stumbling blocks to an efficiently managed project. In this regard, given the
summary if not concise nature of the provisions, the conxa-plan signed with the State does not seem
to reflect either past experience or the need to improve management. Given the unfavorable climate
for sustained State involvement, its implementation seems difficult if not haphazard.



-44-
MI. URBI}N POLICY
General Obiectives
22.          Given the poor distribution of public assistance and poor fit of planned housing
programs, the Governrnent had opted to redeploy its efforts, giving support to self-construction,
reduction in costs and promotion of urban services suited to the economic and social context. A key
element of that strategy, the establishment of a land development agency, responded to the dual need
to increase the availability of land free of dominial fees and, as regards infrastructure, to ensure the
provision of the various urban services. As a developer acting on behalf of the State, it was to carry
out and promote the priority operations of the urban development master plan and, secondarily, to
oversee the construction of vital infrastructure. Its scope of action included the development of new
urban establishments and rehabilitation of older or spontaneously developed areas. Like public
enterprises or utilities, not having general specifications or standards allowing for the prior definition
of economical operations, the agency had to seek more flexible procedures to gradually satisfy needs
and avoid the alternative of everything or nothing (where nothing clearly donminats today). Lastly, it
was to identify, on the previous bases, the prefeasibility of six priority operations under the urban
development master plan, assess their feasibility at minimum cost and satisfy the prerequisites for the
launching of a first subdivision operation (100 ha) intended in particular for low-cost housing. To
that end, it received technical and financial assistance under the project, the active support of the
supervisory bodies and various master plans and programming documents prepared by government
offices. The project was to last 30 months and concluded with the implementation of the first
operations. In practice, the achievement of those objectives required more than 60 months.
Prefeasibility of Land Development Operations
A.           Qbieixve
23.          The Dakar 2010 urban development master plan identified 15 sites for priority
development. 'Operational program plans," were drawn up for six of them and management of
which was temporarily entrusted to the project with a view to eventual execution by the development
agency.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component
24.          In accordance with the terms of reference, project expertise prepared six prefeasibility
studies and supplemented, confirmed or altered their objectives. Carried out from May to July 1985,
they helped with the financial evaluation of an action program for the land development agency and
were approved in December of that year. Without any power of enforcement, that technical expertise
nevertheless enabled the consultant to modify its proposals and helped project management start the
first phase of the feasibility studies.
25.          At the request of MUH and with the approval of IDA, the financial prefeasibility of a
luxury housing operation (Camp Lat Dior) was appraised in July 1987. Although not directly a
concern of the Bank, its eventual impact on the results of the land development agency merited
attention. Subsequently incorporated into the portfolio of the infrastructure company, it is not
receiving financial assistance from the Bank.



- 45 -
C.   W
26.          The late availability of the PDU program plans (May 1985) and delays in the
evaluation of the studies by the Monitoring Committee (six months) caused significant slippage in the
implementation timetable.
Fgrmulalion of  afatmcture Standards
A-.           Objecties
27.          The search for economical and systematic solutions for the gradual construction of
infrastructure in the areas to be developed or rehabilitated was the objective of this part of the study.
The tool to be formulated was not normative but aimed at helping promoters and the users of
development programs to evaluate the investment, recurrent expenditures and ultimate use. It was
further to help restore the dialogue that was all too often lacking with concession holders and permit
the establishment of operating agreements with them.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Coronent
28.           After analyzing the service levels in various districts, the study proposed
infrastructure grids involving four levels of development, which would make possible subsequent
upgrading, in response to general economic conditions. Carried out from March 1985 to February
1986, its intermediary paase was approved in January of that year. Describing the problems with
current practices (oversizing of road networks and infrastructure reserves, insufficient density of land
use), it proposed a hierarchy of urban spaces, infrastructure and service levels, evaluating their
financial implications for the promoters, users and future managers.
29.           A tool for programming and evaluating prefeasibility studies, its impact on the
development agency's 10-year activity program was direct and durable. More generally, it helped the
offices responsible for urban development intheir decision-making and led to the taking into account
by the urban development code of notions of incremental infrastructure, development costs and cost
recovery.
C.           Weaknesses
30.          Success among the concession holders seems less evident, as their specifications and
sectoral policies remain the measure of their involvement. Lastly, in their initial phase the studies ran
into delays similar to those encountered by the prefeasibility reports.
Establishment of a Land Development Aeency
A.           Obieives
31.          The cornerstone of efforts to offer a significant number of titled and serviced lots at a
competitive price, the agency had the following main responsibilities: (i) design of programs and
acquisition of land; (ii) oversight of works and marketing of operations; (iii) cost recovery and
replication of operations. It was estimated that the study phase would take six months. Provided
that the conclusions were favorable, it was followed by the provision of technical assistance which,



- 46 -
planned to last 18 months, made it possible to refine the orientations of the organization, provide the
human, financial and technical means and improve the contractual enviroment. In accordance with
the timetable set by the Borrower, the agency was to be established before April 1986 and begin its
first operations in November 1987.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component
32.          Prior to the agency's establishment, project expertise confirmed the viability of the
concept and identified (i) the 10-year physical and financial development programs; (ii) legal status
and contractual relations with the agency; (iii) financial arrangements for the operations and projected
operating expenses; (iv) financing requirements and preferred partners. Commissioned in March
1985 and proposed by the monitoring entities, in December of that year the studies were the basis for
a decision to establish a mixed company in which the State would have a minority holding and which
would operate on commercial bases. The institutional and technical prefeasibility analyses were
finalized ir February 1986 and viewed favorably by the Government.
33.          As the establishment of private companies did not come under the direct jurisdiction
of the Government, an official order issued by MUH in July 1986 established a wprovisional entity
prior to the establishment of a land development company." The presumed predecessor of the future
agency, it benefited from project expertise. It assumed its responsibilities and prerogatives during the
22 months that it took to satisfy the technical and administrative prerequisites and to set up the
innovative shareholding structure. It lastly complied with the formalities for the establishment of the
agency. However, without legal existence, it could not be awarded fixed assets, approve procedures
in its own name or as a result finalize the first operations. With the support of the highest
govermnent bodies, the company was finally established in May 1988, i.e., two years after the
initially scheduled date. Taking over from the preliminary entity and with the support of the project,
it could then continue preparation of the first infrastructure operation, for which implementation
began in 1990.
34.          Although the objectives of this part of the study were satisfied as a whole, albeit with
delays, the search for shareholders, performance of the provisional entity and or prudence on the part
of the Goverment cannot alone totally account for the delays. The magnitude of the land
development stakes and the persistence of various sectoral strategies and conflicts also seem to have
been a factors. So as to reduce their impact, recourse to a monitoring and mediation body was
proposed and recently adopted. This is one of the conditions of the agreement signed by the
development agency.
C.               W
35.          Although the study did not exclude any comparative evaluation of the various legally
possible statuses, it was clearly established by the Borrower that the agency would take the form of an
establishment subject to public control. Its establishment as a national company, with a sites and
services department autonomous of OHLM oversight, seemed to be the best approach. Owing to the
withdrawal of the State (1985-1992 PALM) and the strong reservations (for obvious reasons) on the
part of OHLM, this was however not possible. Going back to the drawing board, in addition to the
operational difficulties that this caused, the government offices were as a result highly distressed.



- 47 -
36.          With limited prerogatives and experience, the provisional entity was to promote in a
skeptical if not reserved climate an innovative concept that was occasionally poorly understood.
Given the strategic nature of this task, it is unfortunate that the staff (with the exception of the
mission leader and despite clear interest) had no knowledge of the urban sector. It is also regrettable
that the entity could not finalize the draft agreements it had formulated with the municipalities, City
of Dakar and the concession holders. These various parties, who were to cofinance or maintain the
infrastructure built by the development agency, should have been more involved in the design phase.
Feksibility of Development Operation
A.           Objectives
37.          The study examined subdivisions intended primarily for the construction of low-cost
housing on sites (selected by MUH) covering 100 ha (i.e., about 4,000 plots). it distinguished three
phases: (i) urban development study including the identification of primary and secondary
infrastructure; (ii) study of secondary and tertiary infrastructure, different infrastructure levels, types
and groups of plots; (iii) preparation of bidding documentation and assistance in the evaluation of
technical and financial bids. Implementation was estimated to take 18 months starting with the
approval of the detailed urban development plans.
B.           Benfts Induced by the Component
38.          Begun in October 1985, the studies experienced a long interruption from July 1986 to
November 1988, at which time the project unit notified the experts that phases 2 and 3 were to be
carried out simultaneously. These were completed in June 1990, i.e., 30 months behind the initial
timetable. Beyond the details involved in the establishment of the development agency, several
factors accounted for the delays. The first techniques were probably underestimated; others of a more
conceptual or strategic nature were the subject of a long debate between the Bank, supervisory entities
and development agency. They could be resolved only at the cost of a partial retreat from the project
objectives. Compromises fortunately having been reached, this part of the study can nevertheless be
considered as having overall satisfied the objectives of the terms of reference.
C.           Weaknesses
39.          Owing to the procedural delays, development plans submitted to the Government in
February 1986 were examined in March of the following year. Amended in July 1987, they were
submitted for an opinion by the ad hoc bodies in January 1988. Altered to reflect the comments made
in April then transmitted to MUH, they were reviewed by the Regional Urban Development
Commission in July 1988. Receiving a favorable opinion, a November 1989 decree made them
enforceable and authorized the development agency to restart work. In Do way does this three-year-
long procedure seem to have been compatible with management by objectives and the financial
viability of a development company. Another factor in the delays, the topography and geo-technical
characteristics for which the brief had been begun in August 1986 by project management were not
available until November 1988, at which time the technical studies could be resumed and the first
subdivision programs begun.
40.          The main weakness that arose during implementation nevertheless resides in the
challenging of the role of the development agency, commitments regarding land transfers and the



- 48 -
level of infrastructure to be constructed. That option, decided on owing to the prime location of the
first zones to be developed, resulted in prolonged negotiations and implementation delays that
harkened back to the sites and services project and its consequences, leading to a general increase in
the level of services. Although the selection of sites should make possible a future expansion of the
clientele base, this general increase in infrastructure levels and its financial implications nevertheless
still temporarily disqualified a large share of the project's target population. This is inconsistent with
the initial concept and the pursuit of expanded access to ownership for those with income below the
sixth decile.
Restructuring of Central Pikine
A.            Objectives
41.          The objective of the component was a detailed study and engineering for an operation
to rehabilitate the infrastructure of central Pikine.
B.            Benefits Induced by the Component
42.           The component made possible a prefeasibility study involving (i) three types of
development at different levels; (ii) evaluation of costs and the formulation of various operating and
financial schemes.
C.           Wakpesses
43.           The high risk of the recovery arrangements and limited creditworthiness of the
intended beneficiaries had suggested during pre-feasibility the likely impossibility of implementation
by a developer acting as a delegated principal. As the activities would not have been immediately
eligible for IDA financing, the Borrower and the Bank agreed in November 1986 to suspend the
feasibility studies. At its request, GTZ was given responsi-bility for implementation, which it
subsequently dropped on behalf of the Dalifor site, which was more consistent with the attainment of
its objectives.
IV. TRANSPORTATION POLICY
A.            Objectives
44.           Assigned to the Studies and Programming Department of the Ministry of Equipment,
implementation of the component called for the establishment of a permanent urban traffic planning
entity. Its main responsibilities were (i) updating of the diagnostic study of transportation and the
traffic plan; (ii) programming and evaluation of priority actions under the plan; (iii) design of bidding
documents; and (iv) monitoring of projects.
45.           To that end, it had permanent staff and technical expertise under the project. In
addition to the foregoing objectives, the experts were to (i) identify all prerequisites for the Traffic
Bureau; (ii) train local staff and oversee the activities of the newly created entity.



- 49 -
46.           Unlike other project components, this one was subject to prior studies, the
organization of available data and actual establishment of the structure, as well as the provision of
personnel and resources for its operations.
B.            Benefits Induced by the Component
47.           Gradually integrated into the existing structure, the Traffic Bureau, through its activity
and commitment vis-a-vis the supervisory entities, succeeded in establishing credibility and
satisfactory relations with the parties with which it did business and overcoming its initial handicaps.
It today is active in traffic management.
48.           Internally, the measures regarding organization, training and studies and works made
possible the attainment of the objectives, strengthening of the structure and identification of a more
ambitious technical assistance and investment project. The main actions involved (i) updating of the
Cap Vert traffic plan; (ii) preparation of the priority action plan; (iii) design of the Dakar-Plateur
traffic plan; (iv) evaluation of a junction rehabilitation program; (v) computerization of the sectoral
data banks; (vi) economic modeling and computerization of a resurfacing program; (vii) determination
of the technical aspects involved in the concept of regulation; (vii) [sic) introduction of regulatory
measures and monitoring of works; and (ix) maintenance of feeder reads.
49.           Implementation of the foregoing program was facilitated by continuing technical
assistance until November 1988 and CIDA financial support. That agency, in signing Credit
Agreement 1884-SE, extended its support to the Traffic Bureau.
C.            Weaknesses
50.           At the time of credit effectiveness, the traffic and transportation plan, for which the
studies begun in 1980 had been abandoned in 1982 and resumed in 1984 with assistance from IDA,
had not been fully completed. The document, which was to contain the provisions for gradual
adaptation of the public transportation system to medium- and long-term demand, was not issued until
May 1986 and primarily covered the aspects related to the traffic component, at the expense of the
transportation policy. Belatedly completed and to this date not having been approved by the
supervisory bodies, it had little impact on the project.
51.           Simultaneously, the turnover of government personnel, scarcity of human resources
assigned on a permanent basis to the structure (two engineers, involved in other DEP tasks) and their
reduced availability, despite greater interest and investment, exacerbated the previous difficulties.
This unfortunate situation was not really resolved vitil the second quarter of 1987, when four
engineers and senior technicians joined the Traffic Bureau.
52.           In this respect, the means of the Bureaus's establishment, its inclusion in DEP's
organization chart and the determination of staffing should have been discussed in greater depth by
the parties. Had that been done, adequate provisions could have been made and the total lack of
logistical needs encountered by the Bureau during its first year of activity remedied. Partially
resolved during the first quarter of 1986, these physical constraints remained a source of conflict
between the project and programming officials.



- 50-
53.          Although their impact on the rate of implementation is indisputable, the problems
discussed above as a whole did not definitively compromise the implementation of the component.
Nevertheless, however great its success, the existence of a Traffic Bureau detached from the Urban
Project remains precarious. On this point, recent measures decided as part of the administrative
reforms are producing as many questions as they are providing answers.
V. MUNICIPAL POLICY
General Qbectives
54.          Following implementation in the various regions of Senegal, the 1972 Decentralization
Law took Dakar, in 1983, of a specific law reorganizing the Cap Vert Region into an Urban
Community encompassing three communes (Dakar-Pikine-Rufisque) and regulating their respective
jurisdictions. In May 1985, that reform - the first phase of decentralization - was introduced amidst
a profoundly deteriorated context characterized by management liabilities in the neighborhood of
CFAF 20 billion. The financial crisis was accompanied by a disturbing deterioration in administrative
and technical management tools, and the communes were no longer able to provide basic urban
servic-es under satisfactory conditions or even their own proper operations. This particularly
unfavorable climate nevertheless was the background for the establishment of a new municipal team
committed to remedying the errors of the past and improving management as part of a return to
ordinary law and its practices
55.          Under the oversight of the Secretariat for Decentralization and later DCL within the
Ministry of the Interior and involving numerous government or parapublic entites, the objective of
the fourth component of the project was primarily to clarify the role of the local communities in a
new urban strategy, to seek with them the conditions for their recovery and to identify the means for
their future participation as major players in the development of the Dakar region. Three major areas
were studied under the project: (i) municipal organization and management; (ii) maintenance and
rehabilitation of municipal services; (iii) training of municipal workers.
Municipal Organization and MmnagemeM
Study of the Institutional Context
A.           Objectives
56.          This part of the study looked at the relations between the central government and local
authorities, in particular the breakdown of power, responsibilities and obligations as regards services.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Compnent
57.          Owing to its effects on other aspects of the component, the study of relations between
the municipalities, City of Dakar, central authorities and parapublic enterprises was a key to the
municipal component. It was accordingly carried out jointly with the work on municipal finances and
community services. As regards institutional matters, an exhaustive report finalized in September
1980 was the basis for a comprehensive diagnosis of all institutional problems facing the local
govermnents in the Dakar region in the exercise of their prerogatives or powers. Some project



- 51 -
proposals, available for all studies in December 1989, were taken into account in the second phase of
administrative reforms. Others, whose incorporation was more complex and part of a growing
decentralization policy, are still being given attention by the government. The methodology and
quality of results were such that the government extended, with the agreement of the Association, that
study to 13 other communes, of which 6 were regional capitals.
58.          The Local Government Department (Direction des Collectivites Locales - DCL), the
supervisory body for local communities throughout the country, was also studied and assessed as
regards organization, jurisdiction and location in the general government organization chart.
Following a first phase that stressed the inadequacy of available means for the tasks to be carried out,
the analysis concluded with the need, as part of deconcentrated management, to reformulate and
strengthen the role of the DCL. Instead of the day-to-day management it now performs, the study
proposed a new form of intervention as regards design, coordination, advisory assistance and training.
These could affect on the one hand the regulations for municipal management and on the other the
implementation by the local governments of the State's major directives regarding public finance and
planning.
C.           3Makness
59.          It is unfortunate that the DCL's design capability could not be strengthened either
through continued technical assistance or selective recruitment. The gradual correction of this
deficiency should however be possible under Credit C of the UMDP or at the time of the
identification of a possible fourth urban project.
Taxation and municipal finance
A.           Objectives
60.          After analyzing the problems, the study sought to identify and implement measures to
improve the financial management of Dakar.
B.           Benefits Induced by the CoMnonent
61.          In 1985, the financial difficulties facing the local communities seemed deeply-rooted,
complex and long-lasting. They were undoubtedly the consequence of a nationwide economic crisis
worsened by the effects of administrative reform whose financial provisions seemed ineffective.
There was a sever deficit and disarray in both operating and investment financing. The main causes
were: (i) accumulated arrears resulting in growing paralysis; (ii) stagnation in the revenue generated
by a disorganized tax system; (iii) lack of autonomy in the determination of receipts; (iv) limited
effectiveness of the procedures used for identification of the tax base, tax recovery and allocation of
municipal revenue. Simultaneously, despite the political commitment to decentralization reflected in
the legislation, any real transfer of responsibilities and jurisdiction ran into considerable reticence
witiin the government.
62.          Following the foregoing assessment, project management decided to give priority, to
associative action rather than theoretical work to help resolve the following important issues:
(i) determination and implementation of measures to rehabilitate the financial management of Dakar;
(ii) identification of new resources and improvement in the recovery of local taxes, in particular



-52 -
property taxes; (iii) optimization of the utilization of the Municipal Infrastructure Fund (Fond
d'Equipement des Collectivit6s Locales - FECL) as regards investments.
63.          As regards financial rehabilitation, the preparation and execution since 1985 of more
realistic budgets than in the past, design of a recovery plan together with the implementation of
reliable management tools, largely helped the local governments gain greater control of operating
expenditures as well as increase the receipts directly received by the communes. This progress was
fortunately consolidated by an elimination or reduction in claims by the State through the parapublic
enterprises.
64.          In addition to the vital management efforts and reliable allocation of municipal
revenue, the success of the recovery effort came from an improvement in collection or newly
identified resources. On this first point, although this report will not go into detail on the various
works or studies carried out in conjunction with the technical assistance, as these were part of a
"short-term plan to improve collection," the following priority actions or measures were particularly
beneficial to municipal finances: (i) establishment of a Receipts Division; (ii) recasting of the
regulatory framework, reorganization of the regulations governing open-air and covered markets and
evaluation of management performance; (iii) collection of municipal taxes in areas where collection
had not been enforced; (iv) continuation -s regards property taxes and the preparation of the technical
brief of the future tax registry.
C.           Weaknesses
65.          These first results cannot be considered definitive, as they followed in the wake of
significant arrears, large shares of taxes and few appeals, which are all favorable conditions that
would in the short run change and could be compensated only through rapid rehabilitation of the tax
base or recourse to new fiscal resources. On this latter point, it had been proposed to establish and
allocate to the City of Dakar: (i) the professional tax; (ii) a surtax on registration fees; and (iii) a
fund compensating exemptions accorded under the Investment Code. This recommendation, which
had the advantage of partially dissociating funding for the City of Dakar from budget results that were
still precarious, was apparently not acted upon. Lastly, the option to expand the tax base was
evidently preferred to increasing the tax burden in a time of economic straits.
66.          That improvement is particularly fragile as the debt of the former commune of Dakar,
which was analyzed by the project and whose rehabilitation was entrusted to the new city structure, is
still causing numerous concerns. The random mobilization of tax receipts (including amounts
receivable by the former commune) and the magnitude of operating charges, are such that it would
apparently be difficult to meet commitments.
Municipal InfEaM aure Fund
A.           Obiectiv
67.           After analyzing the role and operations of the Fund, the study evaluated the
desirability of using it as a financial intermediary for a municipal credit.
B.           Benefits Induced by the Component



- 53 -
68.          As regards infrastructure, because burdensome liabilities did not enable the communes
tc, meet new repayment charges, it seemed that investment should be limited to their self-financing
capacity and the availability of financial assistance. As the resources of the Fund had not increased
favorably for several years and the benefits of recovery were expected only gradually, when the
Seventh Development Plan began and the PICs formulated, it seemed advisable to study the means for
ensuring adequate funding. Following that study, as recourse to popular savings was apparently not
going to be sufficient for the establishment and then the operating of municipal credit, the principle of
growth and partial reallocation of the Fund on behalf of the planned institution was adopted by the
authorities. That decision, the proposed action and the determination of its regulatory framework
were fully consistent with the objectives of the component and resulted in a cofinancing agreement
between MDA and the Republic of Senegal.
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Municipal Services
A.           Obiecy
69.          After analyzing problems, the study aimed to (i) identify the measures for
modernizing and maintaining infrastructure services in Dakar; (ii) propose a management method for
the equipment management of the technical departmnents; and (iii) establish a cost accounting and
budget planning model for the technical departments.
B.           Induced Benefits of the Component
70.          The picture in 1985 was very different situation from that envisaged by the terms of
reference for the municipal component. In point of fact, it was no longer a matter of adapting the
services to the reforms recently introduced by the Government, but establishing completely new
structures at all levels.
71.          Undertaken in an unfavorable institutional and financial climate, the establishment of
municipal technical services, a direct consequence of the Cap Vert administrative reform, was lumited
to the mere transfer of a service that only the City of Dakar had in 1982. The legacy and liability of
a steadily deteriorating situation until its collapse in 1983, the Technical Services of the City of Dakar
(STCUD) had in 1985 management characterized by (i) unclear distribution of responsibilities among
the communities and the State; (ii) shortage of operating and investment resources; (iii) poor fit of
structures to needs; (iv) a plethora of personnel who were unqualified, under-administered and poorly
supervised; (v) a lack of means resulting in inactivity. At the same time, equipment that was obsolete
or out of service (for which a lack of inventory did not hide its scarcity), a shortage (lack of
financing) of raw materials and vital supplies needed for the minimal running of the service and
unsuitable premises or those that had not been maintained for several years, constituted the physical
assets.
72.          Consideration of the foregoing factors led the parties involved to take action which,
initially aiming to identify clearly the delineation of jurisdiction between the State, City of Dakar and
local communities, would subsequently identify the tasks incumbent on each and result in an eventual
reorganization of the technical services. In addition, as the quality of services seemed too distant
from that ultimately targeted for the objective to be achieved rapidly and economically, it was vital to
proceed slowly, stage by stage, setting accessible objectives. To that end, a transitional phase was
recommended, involving immediate and short-term actions receiving support under the project and



- 54 -
allowing momentum to grow again, before the establishment of the definitive organization. The
rehabilitation period was estimated to take two years. Although this evaluation will not go into detail
on the various stages, the programming of actions under the transitional phase, grouped under a
"Short-Term Action Plan," made it possible for the project objectives to be attained. Among the most
key were (i) a survey of municipally-owned properties, both buildings and infrastructure;
(ii) rehabilitation of the offices of the technical services; (iii) an inventory and repair of available
equipment and tools; (iv) acquisition of additional equipment and tools; (v) determination of
management procedures for warehouses and inventories; (vi) inventory of available documents and
files; (vii) organization and regulation of services; (viii) preparation and execution of annual budgets;
(ix) canvassing of personnel and identification of training needs; (x) recruitment of fewer but more
efficient supervisory staff; (xi) preparation and adoption of the organization chart for the new
structure; (xii) resumption of maintenance, cleaning and upkeep activities.
73.           All these measures made it possible, with the use of basic units constituting the
embryo of the future organization, to show concretely the restructuring of the technical services, their
capacity to carry out the responsibilities assigned them and lastly to establish the definitive structure.
Also to the credit of the component is the identification of the prerequisites for CIDA and IDA
financing of another technical and financial assistance project aimed to consolidate the results of the
present project and strengthen the services.
C.   W
74.           It is nevertheless unfortunate that the shortage of funds, delays in appointing a
technical director and in resolving administrative procedures or decisionmaking prevented all of the
revised objectives from being achieved (establishment of municipal technical services satellite offices
and training plan) within the timeframe. Regardless, despite the precariousness of the results which
remain very dependent on the sustained recovery of the local governments the progress accomplished
seems significant given the initial urgency.
Training Pogram
A.            Obiecives
75.           After identifying the beneficiaries and determining the training program, the
component aimed at providing short traineeships, seminars and workshops for the staff in question.
B.            Benefits Induced by the Component
76.           As regards personnel management, the implementation of the law reorganizing the
local governments in the Dakar region resulted in occasionally rash recruitment decisions and hasty
reallocation of staff among the newly created entities. In 1985, despite gradual improvement, the new
system was characterized by a plethora of personnel whose time was not fully occupied and a
disorganization of services, owing to the unsuitability of profiles for the positions to be filled and
excessive wage bills given the investment budget availabilities.
77.           The correction of the foregoing distortions justified a systematic reformulation of job
descriptions and an improvement in management for municipal workers. The 'training' aspect of the
component therefore called for the design and implementation of a comprehensive plan including



- 55 -
measures to meet that objective. It sought to rectify over the short run the main deficiencies
identified and over the medium run to carry out more in-depth action for certain categories of
personnel affected by the reorganization or the introduction of new management methods and lastly to
combine over the longer run that training policy with a plan for future staffing and career
development.
78.          The proposed action was based on prior identification of the technical and
administrative profiles needed for the operations of the services and called for the adoption of a
"priority action plan" where the needs were most pressing. During implementation, the breadth of
the problems and diversity of situations analyzed led all partners to reformulate the objectives that
could be achieved by the project as regards both content and targets to make them more flexible
although clear.
79.          In tandem with the resolution of that prerequisite, the establishment in March 1987 of
a Consultative Committee made it possible to update the sectors of activity, beneficiaries and training
streams and to move into a directly operational phase. In October 1987 a priority program was
formalized and several well-focused actions taken on behalf of personnel. Involving the Dakar
Fellowships and Training Department, the BOM and various local training agencies, it targeted
STCUD technical and administrative staff as well as senior managers in the local governments. At
the same time, the design of a 'medium-term training plan' that was more comprehensive and
applicable to all personnel in the three communes, was finalized in June 1988. With the assistance of
the local officials and governments, the plan sought to analyze operations, determine the profiles of
key jobs, draw up reports on personnel status and identify initial training levels of the workers and
available skills. On the basis of the foregoing, the major thrusts of training by targeted clientele,
training themes by division and profile and action programs for training were prepared.
C.           Weakn1ses
80.          Implementation of the training component did not make it possible to implement the
foregoing plan and hence only partially satisfied the initial objectives. Additionally, the actions of the
priority plan, belatedly identified and carried out in dispersed order, involved only a limited number
of workers. They consequently represented only the start of a true training policy and their impact on
operations is difficult to measure. Significant efforts still have to be made to ensure that training is
not reduced to the consumption of off-the-shelf products proposed by external agencies, but rather is
tailored to the true needs of the local communities.
Results ofthe Cononent as a Whole
81.           Ihe strengthening under the project of the technical analysis and intervention
capability of the governments was for local officials an occasion for successfully turning political
resolve into reality. This opportunity was seized and, giving priority to specific nature and urgency
of the measures to be undertaken rather than ivory-tower hypotheses, the parties involved in the
project opted for the principle of study/action during which they ensured the smooth integration of
studies and technical assistance into the operational organization of the services. Although, to various
degrees, that intervention did not enjoy equal success individually, their joining was a significant
contribution to the decentralization policy proposed by the State. Coming at a key point in the
reform, the project provided an excellent assessment of the problems and bottlenecks in the municipal
system. Furthermore, through progress in administrative and financial management and the proposed



-56 -
recommendations and solutions, it largely contributed to the maturation and development of that
policy.
V. PROJECT MANAGEUMNT
A.           Objectives
82.          In accordance with the Credit Agreements, project coordination was one of the two
components making up Part A: "urban investment planning and programming." Entrusted to the
Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, it involved the following entities
within a quadripartite body: (i) project management (project unit); (ii) technical department; (iii) a
monitoring committee; (iv) technical assistance to the project department. Its main responsibilities
were: (i) project preparation and startup; (ii) monitoring of project implementation, and, secondarily,
(iv) [sic] finalization of the Cap Vert transportation and urban development master plans.
B.           Organization of the Comnonent and Benefits Induced
Project Unit
83.          Appointed by official order issued by the Minister of Planning and Cooperation, the
project manager split his time equally as the administrator of the credits and project coordinator. He
oversaw the administrative and financial implementation of the project and supervised, coordinated or
guided the activities under various components with a view to meeting the macroeconomic and
sectoral objectives decided during identification. His management was based on the activity of a
"project unit," a small body located on the periphery of the DP/MPC employing four to eight staffers
(of whom two managers), primarily responsible for the relations between the Borrower, IDA and the
technical partners. It operated in this form until November 1988, when Credit Agreement 1884-SE
became effective, requiring additional humlan and financial resources. As project personnel had no
particular skills in urban planning or management, the technical intervention by the developer
required the assistance of high-level expertise and the cooperation of the technical department and
committee. For various reasons explained above, because this latter condition was not resolved
optimally, the result was both growing isolation of the project unit within the initial apparatus and a
virtually unequivocal reinforcement of its decisionmaking role.
Project Technical Deoartment
84.          Appointed by official order of the Minister of Urban Development and Housing, the
technical director, a senior otficial from the Department, was involved in all project components. His
main responsibilities were to ensure the consistency and the mutual compatibility of action and to
evaluate the quality of services provided. A member of the monitoring entities, he helped in
decisionmaking and coordinating project directives. Not having any specifically identified personnel
to that end, he was assisted by the members of the Monitoring Committee and the experts of the
project unit. The establishment of this key function (a condition for credit effectiveness) assumed that
the Borrower would ensure, to the extent possible, that the appointed person would stay in that
position and be genuinely available. In this respect, the numerous changes in personnel within MUH
between the identification phase and project closing, and the longevity and reduced availability of the
first people to hold the position made compliance with the commitment impossible. Along with other



- 57 -
factors, these contributed to poor performance or the prolonged vacancy in the position and markedly
undermined the cross coordination of the studies.
Prolecl Mgnitgring Comnmitt
85.          Another condition for credit effectiveness, the Monitoring Committee continued the
work of the Steering Committee which in 1983 had identified the urban sector project. Chaired by
the planning director and including representadves from the departvients involved in the project, it
had 20 permanent members, who could receive short-term assistarAce. Its main responsibilities
involved the analysis of the preliminary studies, review of activity reports and formulation of
recommendations and guidelines for government officials and project experts. They included the
development of indicators to track progress and the drafting of quarterly progress reports. Lastly, a
major interface for the various components, its smooth running determined the compliance of the
government offices with the policy, their real involvement in the fonmulation of project concepts and
implementation of measures. During project implementation, its mobilization proved to be complex
and inconsistent with the performance objectives. Its size, lengthy procedures and their poor fit with
the rate of the project gradually led to its decline and ultimately a deterioration of its effectiveness.
The emergence of disagreements resulting in part from the unclear assignment or responsibilities or
their overlapping ultimately led to the abandomnent of a structure that had become useless. Meeting
on three occasions during 1966, it could not perform in accordance with a team approach and did not
even effectively contribute to project coordination or evaluation.
Technical Assistance to the Project Unit
86.          Overseen by the project manager and the technical director, technical assistance was
responsible for (i) preparation and handling of bid calls; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of contracts;
and (iii) programming and execution of technical twinning. Through short-term expertise, the
consultant provided training or informational sessions to strengthen the analysis and decisionmaking
capability of the structure. Technical assistance was provided throughout the life of the project.
Although there are no particular comments to be made on implementation of the first phase, the
problems encountered during subsequent stages merit a closer look and more critical evaluation.
87.          As regards monitoring and evaluation, the consultant was to regularly evaluate the
documents produced and measure the efficiency of project activities. Based on his findings, he
formulated any recommendations for improvements. The six-monthly report on those activities
described project progress and supplemented or replaced the reports of the Monitoring Committee,
making it a key docunent for the coordination entities. Additionally, the identification of conditions
for technical twinning between the Borrower (mattre d'ouvrage) and EPEVRY was to result in
proposals favoring, on the one hand, the establishment of a bipartite committee that would be the
linchpin for a true urban strategy and, on the other hand, the organization of internships and training
for local technicians. In January 1986, when the first studies were evaluated, the decision taken by
the Borrower (maitre d'ouvrage) to end the technical assistance prevented that program from going
forward.
88.          As unfortunate as they may seem, it appears that the profound divergences in opinion
that arose between the project unit [sic: managerl and his assistant made any future cooperation
impossible, however desirable it would have been. While the motives for this choice will not be



- 58 -
prejudged, its adverse effects are undeniable for the technical capacity of the apparatus as a whole
and, despite the efforts taken by the project unit, were never fully overcome.
89.           After a year of implementation, the project thus had the real risk of collapsing.
Whether due to a choice of strategy or a natural evolution of events, the gradual resolution of the
foregoing problems was reflected in a sweeping restructuring of the coordination bodies, greater
verticality of relations between the project unit and the technical partners and lastly concentration of
decisionntaking power within that structure. It is unfortunate that that revision did not provide the
opportunity for [?the provision ofl information in more capsulized form and that it did not make It
possible to reinforce the vital linkages among the various components vital to an overall approach to
the sector. In this respect, a lack of reporting technique and performance indicators was particularly
key and resulted from the relative disaffection on the part of the technical bodies which, perceiving
themselves as uninvolved in the decisionmaking process, at times had their reservations about
approaches whose finality they did not grasp.
90.           Despite the reservations that they may have caused or the distortions that could not be
avoided, coordination seems nevertheless to have achieved its objectives. It clearly assisted in the
identification of an investment project (within the timeframe) rather than the prolonged exercise of
team management. Regardless, the results are unquestionably significant given the ambition of the
undertaking.
C.            Weaknes
91.           Although the problems that stalked project coordination from the outset will not be
discussed in detail, it is important to determine their causes which seem to be of different orders, the
first associated with the normal course of intersectoral action, the second with identification of the
project and the diversity of the stakes. It was unlikely, given the size and administrative complexity
of the sector, that the coordinating body (even when it was the predecessor of a national coordinating
body) would be sufficient in a limited timeframe to unify the sectoral strategies already undertaken.
This seems all the more difficult in a context of budget constraints where access to scarce resources
leads to keener competition. Lastly, coordination should have received particular attention,
preliminary in-depth consultation and precise administrative implementation. It appears that during
implementation this did not occur. Without detailed terms of reference, the unclear delimitation of
the prerogatives and obligations of each party, the overlapping of jurisdictions and the lack of any
functional prioritization exacerbated an already confused situation.



