Doawment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. /X-p Se
Se-f] SeF
Ikwt No. P-3672-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMNEDATION
OF TE
P31ENT OF THE
TRO          DEVLOPM    ASSOCIATION
TO TE
EXECUTI  DIRECTORS
01 A
PROPOSED DELOPNM   CREDIT OF SDR 2.9 MILLION A
A PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT OF SDR 2.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SEIEAL
FOR Al URAN   A       TAND  EAO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Narc' 27, 1984.
This docment bas a resicted distnibution and way be se by recipients only in the performance of
their offcia duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disdsed withot Wold Dak authorization.



Currency Unit                                CPA Pranc  CPAP)
USS1.00                   tCAP 392 1
ClAP I zillion.                              USS2,551
SY1T   OF WIGHTS AID NRASURS: Netric
ABRS  AD ACRONYNS
COK            Buream Central d'Etudes pour lea Equpessuts
a'Ottre-Nar
BES            Baqu  de IlHabitat du S&Agal
CID            Canadian International Developuent Agency
DPA            Direction des Parcelles Assainies
3PIMRY         Etablissenent Public d'EvrY Viii Nouvelle (Frane)
PAC            Ponds d'Aide eta. Coopdertion (Prance)
FAR           Ponds d'             deioration  I l'Habitat
PECL           Ponds d'Bquipeunet des Coll:ctidtis Locales
PEG (GTZ)     Federal Republc of Germny (Gesellschaft fur
Techice Z       nrbd)
OEIM           Office des labitations a Layer NodWre
ONEs          Orgnaion pour la Nise en Valour de la Tall~e
du Siengal
ONCAD          Offic   ational ude Coopkaltion et d'Assistance pour
le DisTeloppeaent
SCET           Socifte Cental. d'q uipement du Territoire
SENELEC        Soc"t6 Seongalaise d'ploiatio   de lectriciti
SICAP         Socibtee TIobi1ire du Cap Vert
SOFISEDIT      Societ'e FPinanare Senigalaise pour le Dgreloppement
de l'IndustrLe Pt du Tourisme
SOUAR          Socift Nationale C'lApprovisonnezent Rural
SOxEES         Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eani du Sneegal
SONED          Societe Nouvelle des Etudes de DgveLoppement
en Afriquxe
SOTRAC         Soc ete- des Transports on Commun du Cap Vert
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Senegal                July 1 - June 30
1 / The CPA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of PF 1 to CPA? 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
URRAi4 MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECIUICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project S§Mmmary
Borrower:               Republic of Senegal
Amount:                 SDR 2.9 million (USS3.05 million equivalent) from
IDA. SDR 2.8 million (US$2.95 million equivalent)
from the Special Fund administered by IDA.
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description:    The objective of the proposed projeet would be to
strengthen the policy and institutional framework to
manage arban growth more efficiently. Over Ithe short
term, the project would progressively improve the
operational efficiency of three key entities:  the
city of Dakar, the Office des Habitations a Loyer
Nodere (OHIM), and the Banque de 1'Habitat dui Senqgal
CBHS). Short term consultant services, resident
specialists, studies, training, limited equipment and
spare parts and minor civil works would be provided
to:  (a) strengthen the programming of rehabilitation
projects in the urban sector, beginning with
preparation of the Seventh Plan (1986-1989);
(b) improve the design and delivery of shelter and
urban services; and (c) upgrade the managerial and
technical capacity of the city of Dakar to
rehabilitate and mairtain municipal services, and to
mobilize local resources for continued maintenance
over the longer term.
Project Benefits:       The proposed project would support Government's
development objectives by improving the effieieney of
eco&omic activities in the Cap Vert, which includes
75 percent of the country's indust'rial base. Improved
investment planming, p=ogr-smming, and project design
would emphasize maintenance  .,xd rehabilitation of
infrastructure supporting industrial development and,
through lower cost design standards! could double the
population covered without a commensurate increase in
costs. Emphasis on maintenance could lead to major
ris document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank author;,ation.



- ii -
savings arising out of avoidance of costly
reconstruction wor'ks. Starting immediately, improved
financial management of the city of Dakar could
generate TJSS1.0 million annually, through improved
collection; develornent of a land cadastre could at
least double annual revenues through better coverage
and updating of property values. Provision of spare
parts would permit the functioning of over two-thirds
of Dakar's maintenance fleet which is presently
idle. Traffic management measures elsewhere in Africa
typically show rates of return ranging from 40 to
60 percent. Other benefits include possible
reductions in public expenditures through increased
private sector participation in house construction and
better coordination among agencies in the planning and
design of urban investments.
Project Risks:          There is one main risk:  Government's political
commitment to manage urban growth within macroeconomic
financial constraints.  The institutional arrangements
for the proposed project are closely linked to the
framework established by the Ministry of ?lanning and
Cooperation to prezare and program a national
rehabilitation strategy for the Seventh Plan. This
arrangement should ensure better coordination in the
definition of a cost-effective urban strategy and,
therefore, the risk is expected to be minimized.  This
risk is, in any case, worth taking in view of the
major role the urban sector has in improving economic
prospects.
.



- iii -
Estimated Project C.osts
Local a/   Foreign   Total
-- ~~--UJS$  Million-
Urban Investment Dianning and Programming           0.350       0.983      1.533
Housing and Urban ?olicy                            0.350       0.933      1.283
7(unicipal Policy                                   0.583       2.055      2.638
TOTAL BASE COST               1.283       3.971     5.254
Contingencies - Physical                            0.128       0.397     0.525
- Price                               0.212       0.659     0.871
TOTAL PROJECT COST           1.623        5.027     6.650
Financin- Plan:
Percentage
of total
Local   Foreign   Total   Project Cost
IDM (Including Special Fund)    0.973    5.027   6.000        90
Government                      0.650    0.000   0.650        10
1.623    5.027   6.650      100
Estimated Disbursements rrom the
IDA Credit and Special Fund Credit (USS Million):
FY85     FY86     FY87     FY88      FY89
Annual                      1.2 br   1.5       1.5      1.2      0.6
C,inulative                 1.2       2.7      4.2      5.4      6.0
Economic Rate of Return: Wot applicable
Estimated Project Completion Date: December 1987
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no separate appraisal report
Taps:  IBRD 17517
IBRD 17233
Chart: World Bank 25466
a!   Project is exempt from taxes estimated at 135$1 million or 15 percent.
bI   Inclades refinancing of a PPF advance of US$450,000.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM7ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOK!MEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTO  TO THE
EXECWITIVE DIRECTORS OX A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO TRE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN IRBAN 7AMGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 2.9 million
(US$3.05 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, and a proposed Special
Fund Credit administered by IDA of SDR 2.8 million (US$2.95 million
equivalent), on terms adopted by the Executive Directors of IDA, 1/ to help
finance an Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technica  Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECOOMY 2/
2.       A report entitled 'The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(t720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on tarcb 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section on
the economic situation. A new Country Economic Memorandum on Senegal is
currently being prepared.  Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for
domestic consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern
sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over
one million inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port
facilities, an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing
tourism industry. With a population of 6.0 million in mid-1982, Senegal's per
capita GNP for 1982 was estimated at US$440.
4.       At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as the
center of French West Africa, and subsequently has had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative, and political circunstances. In the latter part of
the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to
1/   Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26, 1982.
2/   The text of this Section remains substantially unchanged from that
included in the President's Report for the Fifth Highway Project which
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 23, 1984.



- 2 -
unfavorable weather and declining export prices as a result of loss of EEC
special preferences. Over the decade, the Senegalese economy experienced
virtual stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5 percent
per annum, hardly more than the rate of population growth.
5.      DTiring the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut production was again hit by
sharp climatic fluctuations, and even with higher rates of both private and
public investment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the
previous decade.  Buoyed by a series of good harvests and relatively high
international prices, real GDP increased at about 5 percent a year between
1973 and 1977, but declined by 2 percent a year between 1977 and 1981,
reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during this period.  A marked
recovery from the previous depression occurred ia 1982 with an estimated
9.8 percent real growth in GDP. Results of the 1982/83 agricultural season
were also good, leading to an estimated 3 percent growth of GDP in 1983.
However, indications for the 1983/84 crop year suggest a disastrous groundnut
and cereal harvest, due to another severe drought in the Sahel region
this year. The FAO has recently estimated Senegal's food aid requirements for
1984 at over 250,000 tons and is coordinating pledges for the additional aid
required.
6.        luctuations in physical output have been aggravated by the price
volatility of Seneg,al's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974, the
terms of trade improved by over 21 percent due to exceptionally high prices
for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975,
export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a decline in export
prices for phosphates since 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices brought a
further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income of
roughly 6 percent of GDP bet-een 1974 and 1982.  This deterioration in terms
of trade, along with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole,
led the Government to launch an economic and financial stabilization program
in 1980. The main objectives of the Government's five-year program were to
stabilize the economy during the first t-wo years and to achieve an economic
growth rate of 4 percent per annuim in the following three years.  This program
was supported ty an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of USS243 million equivalent
approved by the IXJF in August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural &djustment
Loan/Credit (SAL) approved by the Bank in December 1980.
7.       The structural adjustment program consisted of an economic
stabilization plan (agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of new
producer incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change              0
in the national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector. Despite delays caused by a record low
1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of government in early 1981, the
Government achieved significant progress in reducing arrears, improving
investment programming and parapublic sector management, and in iatroducing
industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and especially in the
reform of agriculture policies and control of government expenditure, action
was disappointing.



3-
Balance of PaVments
8.       The new balance Of payments policies introduced under the 1980
stabilization program were based on strict control of overall demand through
import tax and corsamer price increases, combined with increased producer
prices for major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for
manufactured exports.  However, the hoped-for reduction in the trade balance
could not be achieved, mainly because of the 1980/8l drougght and difficulties
ia implementing reforms in groundnut marketing. The fall in groundnut oil and
seedeake exports from a past five-year average of US$220 million/year to
US$94 million in 1980 and TTSS34 million in 1981, together with exceptionally
high import bills for petroleum an1 rice, increased the current account
deficit iG. 1981 to US$590 million, or about 23 percent of GDP.  In 1980 and
1981, the Government received exceptional aid averaging US$170 million a year
from bilateral and multilateral donors. Even this, however, was insufficient
to avoid a further fall in net foreign assets, from US$80 million in 1980 to a
level of negative US$460 million at the end of 1981. The resource gap was
estimated at 20 percent of GDP in 1981, narrowed to 14 percent in 1982, and is
estimated at about 13 percent for 1983. Good rainfall during the 1981/82
growing season permitted a five-fold increase in the 1982 value of groundnut
exports, despite exceptionally low world market prices for vegetable oils.
However, the CFAF value of imports rose by about 13 percent, despite the
policy measures introduced to contain urban demand. With total imports for
1983 estimated at about 42 percent of GDP (as compared to around 30 percent in
the early 1970s), further economic adjustment needs to be achieved in the
coming years, in order to reduce the current account deficit to a level which
can be financed on acceptable terms. This will have to be achieved mainly
through containment of consumption levels, and through food import
substitution, and strong promotion of non-agricultural exports.
Producer and ExDort Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program addressed the need to improve the
country's trade balance by increasing the basic level of import duties from 10
to 15 percent of f.o.b. value and by introducing an export premium system for
certain manufactured goods. The export premium system has already had a
positive impact on export and employment levels in the five industries to
which it was applied, especially fishing. An extension to 20 other
agricultural and industrial branches, as well as a refinement of the payment
system, is being implemented during the current fiscal year. To contain
imports, the Government adopted a 31 percent increase in the official consumer
price for rice in February 1982, which was again substantially (24 percent)
increased in August 1983, in order to reflect increased import costs and to
provide a measure of protection for domestic cereal production. The net
producer price for groundnuts was increased substantially in 1981 but has
subsequently had to be reduced in order to limit the losses borne by
government on both input and output mar'keting operations.
Public Finances
10.      Although the Government successfully implemented a 1981/82 Standby
Arrangement with the It!P, the new program initiated in 1982/83 could not be
completed due to the government's inability to restrict domestic credit
growth, to remain within public borrowing targets, and reduce its payment



- 4 -
arrears. This was partly due to an unforeseen 50 percent drop in export
prices for groundnut products and to a less-than-expected inflow of foreign
budgetary support.  In August 19.3, the Government signed a new Standby
Program with the IMF for the current 1983/84 fiscal year, under which it is
committed to observing strict limits on civil service recruitment, new foreign
borrowing, domestic credit expansion, and public sector payment arrears; the
Government is also repaying a large volume of outstanding crop credit and
ONCAD (Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement)
debts held by the commercial banks. As part of the austerity program, in
August 1983 the Government announced a series of sharp increases in domestic
consumer prices for rice, vegetable oils, and petroleum products. Even with
these improvements in fiscal performance, however, the Government will be left
with a financing gap equal to roughly 10 percent of the fY84 budget and the
outlook for 1984/85 is even less encouraging, given the extremely poor
groundnut crop expected this year. It appears unlikely that by 1985 the
Government will be able to finance from its net budgetary savings 25 percent
of its public investment program, the target the Government set itself in the
original structural adjustment program. A major constraint on the
Government's finances is the serious and growing burden represented by service
or the external debt, which amounted to US$1.4 billion in June 1983. In
November 1982, the Government was required to obtain from the Paris Club a
second debt reschedulino and agreed on a third round of rescheduling with the
Paris Club and commercial banks in December 1983.
Investment Program
11.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
dramatically since establishment of the structural adjustment program
in 1980. While the latter imposed ceilings on the public investment program
to re-establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced
program has become problematic.  Private investment has stagnated and public
inrestment ic zuffering from financing problems because the country is not
creditworthy for foreign commercial loans, and domestic credit expansion has
to be constrained. In the present climate, a careful screening of new
investment projects according to economic criteria is especially needed,
together with an increased attention to rehabilitation and maintenance needs
of existing assets.
Parapublic Sector
12.      Reform of the large parapublic sector in Senegal continues to be a
high government priority.  Over the last three years the Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable
enterprises (through the liquidation of close to 20 companies) and has
transferred ownership of several other companies to the private sector. For
some of the remaining parapublic enterprises, the Government has moved to
increase managerial autonomy by negotiating multi-year contrats-plan which set
clear financial objectives for company operations and spell out the reciprocal
obligations of the Government and enterprise managers.
13.      To date, the Government has signed six contrats-plan and several
others are well advanced. The main objective of the Second Parapublic
Technical Assistance Project, approved by the Roard in July 1983, is to
provide technical assistance to 12 parapublic enterprises for the development



of rehabilitation programs, which can serve as the basis for realisric
contrats-plan, and to strengthen the institutional framework for contrats-plan
monitoring in support of Government efforts to improve the financial
performance of the parastatal sector as a whole. These objectives are also
supported by other projects in the Bank's lendin- program, including the
proposed Urban Ranagement and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project.
Long-term Prospects
14.      The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agricultural and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Rastern Senegal) where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown, and increased incentives for domestic aillet
production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research will be oriented
more to farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of
lowering the costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better
adapting them to farmers' constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being
developed in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River.
Construction has started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River
by the Organisation pour la Nise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (OMVS), but
the high level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice will severely
constrain the pace of new irrigation development.
15.      The phosphoric acid and fertilizer project is now well advanced, and
the combination export subsidy/import duty increase designed to effect a
realignment of the Senegalese CFA currency should help to attract more light
export industries once the international economy has improved. However, in
the medium-term, at least, export diversification is unlikely to offset the
uncertain prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity.
Groundnut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased
supply of competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut cake have also been
depressed due to the risk of aflatoxin contamination, which has resulted in
the complete closure of some export markets. As a consequence, in the next
few years, the share of total exports in GDP is expected to remain below the
levels attained in the early 1970s.
16.      The exceptional foreign aid granted to Senegal in support of the
Government's 1980/85 stabilization program has helped the country survive in a
period of extraordinary economic difficulty, but these efforts have not been
enough to bring the economy back to a path of balanced growth. The over-
extended public sector, as well as heawy domestic arrears and external debt
service charges, continue to impose serious burdens on public finance and will
make necessary further debt rescheduling. The Treasury will not be able to
absorb substantial additional recurrent cost charges from development projects
and will continue to need exceptionally high shares of foreign financing for
the investment program. The unfavorable balance of payments situation calls
for a reassessment of Senegal s longer term development strategy and the
establishment of a new program of action to achieve the required structural
adjustments. The Bank will continue to focus its country dialogue on these
problems and, in the interim, will finance its lending program in Senegal on
IDA terms.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ¶91  SENEGAL
17.      As cf Tarch 31, 1984, the Bank Group had approved 55 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$531.1 milLion, including 30 IDA credits, 12 Bank
loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two blends of
Bank and l'", funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA, and IPC funds. PhysicUl
execution of projects is progressino reasonably well, although some operations
are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's
continuing difficult public finance situation. Annex 'I contains the Status
of World Bank Operations in Senegal.
18.      Until a few years ago, Bank Group assistance was mostly project-
oriented with a strong emphasis on diversieication of the economy and
improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the
financial crisis of the past two or three years has led to a major shift
in strategy, with emphasis placed on assisting the Government in:
(a) implementing investment policies and incentives to develop and diversify
3enegal's production and export base; (b) increasing the efficiency and
savings capacity of the public sector; and (c) redirecting investments towards
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing social and economic infrastructure
and developmental recurrent costs, rather than expansion investments. The
Bank Group plans to continue financial and institutional support through
project lending and technical assistance for operations or reforms that would
encourage a stronger role for the private sector, as in the phosphate and
petroleum industries. Bank Group operations now cover a wide spectrum
of sectors.
19.      In agriculture, operations have aimed at improving productivity for
traditional food and cash crops, together with diversification into new crops
and new regions. In recent years, the portfolio was somewhat modified by
financing a forestry project and an agricultural research project which
focusses on improving agricultural systems. In August 1983, the Board
approved a cotton/food crop project in the rainfed regions of Eastern Senegal
and Upper Casamance. . dialogue is currently underway with the authorities on
prospects for developing irrigated rice farming in the Senegal River Valley
along the northern border of the country. The feasibility of new activities
in the heavily-populated Groundnut Basin will depend on further progress with
structural reforms in input distribution, extension services, crop marketing,
and agricultural credit.
20.      Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Winanci6re Sensgalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISPDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank assistance in 1974, in which I?C is a
shareholder and for which three lines of credit have been approved.  The Bank
has assisted in the realization of a major phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex
by financing the rail infrastructure component; the project, for which IFC has
been an important lender, is now well underway and commercial operations are
expected to start in the fall of 1984. The Bank also responded to the effects
of the past oil crisis by assisting the Government in its search for new
energy resources: a petroleum exploration project was approved in FY83.
Finally, diversification has been encouraged by assisting ia the promotion and
development of tourism; one of Senegal's major resources. The project, which



- 7 -
consists of basic infrastruieture and includes a line of credit .u provide
long-term financinp aa a catalyst for potential private investors in hotel
construction, is virtually coiupleted.
21.      Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion of
the country'3 infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail, port,
and airport. But with a stagnant economy and heavy past investments, emphasis
is now being placed on better utilization and maintenance of existing
facilities. The recently approved Fifth Highway Project supported the
Government's limited capacity to provide funds for priority maintenance. The
Dakar Container Port Project (also submitted to the Executive Directors today)
emphasizes rehabilitation and maintenance of the port facilities, in addition
to the container terminal.  The proposed Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Credit presented in this report will improve Government's
capacity to maintain the existing level of urban services which support
productive activities, through the preparation and programming of maintenance
operations and the improved mobilization of resources.
2.      While Bank strategy has supported the emphasis on financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it has also recognized the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of both
the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,
efforts have been directed towards primary education and towards technical and
vocational training to support activities in the productive sectors. A health
project directed to primary care in the rural regions was approved in FY83,
and a water supply project in the secondary centers is in the final stages of
preparation.
23.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed adequately
through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the late 1970s
towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural adjustment
lending. In 1978, a technical assistance project was directed at improving
the Government's knowledge and management of the parapublic sector. In
July 1983, a second parapublic project was approved to help consolidate
results already achieved and to begin rehabilitation of some key public
enterprises through detailed action plans. TJunder another technical assistance
project, assistance is being provided to the lMinistry of Planning to prepare
and select projects and to monitor the investment program. ' December 1980,
a structural adjustment Prog-am, supported by a Bank loan and an IDA credit
aimed at supporting the Goverirbent's efforts to control aggregate demand,
redirect public investments, and promote industrial exports and other
productive activities through improved price and incentive policies. The
local currency counterpart funds of the Structural Adjustment Loan were used
for financial rehabilitation of several parapublic enterprises which had
agreed with the Government on contrats-plan. However, since the performance
of the Government in some areas of its agricultural policy was deficient, the
second tranche of the Struct'iral Adjustment Loan was cancelled in June 1983.
24.      Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental recurrent
costs, improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance. The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the IMF and bilateral and multilateral donors. In t:.is connection, Senegal



- 8 -
has requested the Bank to convene a consultative group meeting in the second
halt of 1994 to which it would submit its priority financing needs. The Bank
is assisting the Government in preparing documentation for this meeting and is
willing to play a major role in coordinating donor activity.  The Bank is
prepared to play an active role in aid coordination for Senegal, but on
condition that Senegal's expectations are realistic and that the aid
coordination effort is based on extensive preparatory work.
25.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
ove-r 1980-82 averaged approximately 18 percent, of which roughly two-thirds
was IDA-financed.  The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was
17 percent in 1980, and may approach 20 percent by 1985.  The Bank Group's
share in scheduled external debt service is expected to increase from
3.7 percent in 1980 to about 7.5 percent in 1935.
PART III - THE IMRAN SECTOR
73conomic Growth and Urban Development
z6.      The efficient managemeat of growth and develoonent of Senegal's urban
centers is essential to economic growth. While the bulk of the country's
population (67 percent) lives in the rural areas, agriculture contributes only
19 percent of GDP. In contrast, it is estimated that Dakar and the Cap Vert
Region contribute over 50 percent of GDP and the overwhelming share of
donestic wage elmloyment.  Revitalization of the agriculture sector will
nevertheless remain 7overnment's main challenge, since it will continue to b3
the prime source of income for the majority of the population for some time
to come.
27.      Diversification of the economic base is therefore a key to reaching
even a modest le-el o° economic growth over the longer term.  As part of this
effort, the Goverament is pursuing and the Bank is supporting the development
of an erport-oriented, light industrial capacity. Reaching this long-term
objective will depend on many factors, the most fundamental of which is the
efficient functioning of the existing infrastructure needed to maintain
ongoing economic activity and to attract and support an expanded industrial
base. Given the relatively well-developed infrastructure network in and
around Dakar, i.e., the port and international airport, telecommunications and
road infrastructure, together with a readily available and well-educated labor
supply, the successful creation of an export-oriented industry will undeniably
rely heavily on a well-managed Dakar/Cap Vert Region.
28.      Today Dakar and the Cap Vert provide the cushion for a very fragile
economy, accounting for 20 percent of the population and 87 percent of formal
sector employment. Of 270 modern sector enterprises surveyed in 1980, over
90 percent were located in the Cap Vert, over half of which were agro-
related.  The tourism industry, Senegal's third largest foreign exchenge
earner, is anchored in Dakar, and is an important contributor to employment,
creating two indirect jobs for every one in hotels.  Over the short to medium-
term, thereforD, the Government is emphasizing the preservation of existing



- 9 -
assets in Dakar through rehabilitation and maintenance, while seeking ways to
mobilize resources for the expansion of services which the growth of a light
industrial capacity -ill require.
Growth Trends and Future Projections
29.      'gigh natural growth rates and an extremely mobile population are
significant features of Senegal's urbanization process and, given past trends,
are extected to have a profound effect on future development prospects.
Internal migration is in part a response to an essentiallv hostile climate and
shows dramatic swings in drought and off-drought years as the rural population
searches for improved economic opportunities. In 1982, the urban population
represented over 30 perceat of the total population of 6 million.  Over
o0 percent of the estimated 1.9 million urban residents resided in the
DakarJCap Vert Region, with the remainder scattered amonri 16 cities and
concentrated in sir regional centers. Urban growth rates were estimated to
range from about 5 to 6 percent in Dakar to 10 percent in the two small
regional cities of Kolda and Velingara located in the Upper Casamance
?egion. The overall urban growth rate was aa estimated 3.7 percent, compared
to a national growth rate of 2.6 percent.
30.      According to the first phase of the Dakar/Cap Tert Structure Plan,
the stimulation of an export-oriented capacity centered in the industrial zone
on the southeastern shore c- the Cap Vert peninsula would imply a population
of 2.85 million in the Region by the enad of the century (Rap IBRD 17233). The
total urban share of the population would climb from 30 percent in 1980 to
4-' percent by the year 2001.  One out of two Senegalese would be living in
urban areas and one out of three would be residing in Dakar. This amounts to
an additional 1.5 million new residents in Dakar/Cap Vert who must be provided
basic sh-lter and services, most of whom would live in areas which currently
have little basic infrastructure.  This scenario, which has been accepted by
the Coverament., is based on an extrapolation of existing trends.  In fact,
the center of population is already shifting eastward in and around
-ikine/Guediawaye, a predominantly low income, poorly serviced zone about
25 km from central Dakar and adjacent to the new industrial zone. Until now,
Pikine/Guediawaye has been little more than a receiving area for poor
households. Given these trends, it appears inevitable that Pikine will become
a second administrative/commercial/population center for the Region.
31.      While steady growth is projected ior the regional centers, mediun-
term financial constraints greatly limit investment in these regional
capitals, except where the rate of return on these investments is above
alternative projects. Nevertheless, preliminary figures show that an
investment strategy which supports secondary center develoament at a faster
rate than that retained by 'iovernment planners would raise total development
costs by 15 percent and run the risk of not being implemented. Under these
circm-stances and given the preeminent role of Dakar/Cap Vert in the national
economy, the first phase of Senegal's urban management strategy must focus on
improving the efficiency of Dakar and the Cap Vert Region. Three aspects
require immediate attention: (a) investment planning and programming;
(b) housing and urban policy; and (c) maintenance of urban services.



- 10 -
The Nfanagement of Trban frowth:  Investment -lanning and ?rogramming
32.      7he Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Urban Development, and
Finance are all involved in tne design of urban projects, their selection for
inclusion in national plans, and in decisions concerning their financing.
?or the most part, there has been little coordination in this process,
resDonsibilities have been poorly defined, and relationships unclear. Many
projects which directly affect Dakar!tap Vert have not appeared in the
national plan, but have been included in a regional development program which
is prepared senarately.  This situation is a major factor in the uneven
distribution and quality of services i-n Dakar which vary considerably from the
central area (Plateau) to the city's periphery.
33.      Urban projects which appeared in the revised Sixth Plan (FD81-85) did
not reflect a clearly defined urban strategy nor available resources.  None of
Ithem aimed to support existing productive activities in Dakar/Cap Tert which
are essential to improving overall economic performance.  Turthermore, the
4inistry of Urban Development, which i3 -responsible for defining urbman policy,
did not calculate financial or economic returns for their operations.  In many
cases, projects were little more than intentions, e.g., 5,000 sites and
serv-ices plots per annw', while in other cases they rerresented prograns -which
utilized scarce resources for high standard, high cost, and highly subsidized
housing projects.  'Iany such projects were carried forward from previous Plans
for lack of financing.  ifany other projects which were financed were not
included in either the national or regional development plans, but were the
result of ad hoc negotiations between the technical ministries and the donors,
or directly with tne Treasury.  The Government has requested IDA assistance
for preparation of the urban portion of the Seventh plan (1995-1989) in order
that its development program more efficiently take into account macroeconomic
objectives and financial constraints.  Futare urban projects for Dakar/Cap
Vert must be programmed within a coherent economic framework, in accordance
with guidelines defined by the Tinistries of 5lanning and Cooperation and
Finance, and must provide for maintenance requirements. This requires
completion of the Transport and Structure Plans for Ca&  Vert, Ithe first phases
of -which were financed entirely by Government.  The capacity of the technical
ministries involved in urban development aust also be strengthened to prepare
viable projects and to closely monitor their physical and financial
implementation.
Housing and Urban Policy
34.      The most important public entities mandated to deliver urban services
are:  the Office des Habitations a Loyer Modrge rOHTA), the Societe
Immobiliire du Cap Vert (SICAP), the Societe& iationale d'Exploitation des Eaux
du Senegal (SOEES), the Societe des Transports en Commun du Cap Vert
(SOTRAC), and the Societe Senegalaise d'Mxploitation de l'Electricilte
(SFNELEC).  These enterprises share problems which are common to the
paraDublic sector: technical and managerial skills are in short supply,
productivity is low, financial controls are inadequate, and objectives and
priorities are often poorly defined.
35.      OHLI.  For the Government, OHML is a major vehicle for house
construction.  It was created in 1960 to build middle income housing units and
to install the companion secondary and tertiary infrastructure. Since that



- 11 -
time, it has built a total of 9,000 units, compared to an increase in
thie ayznbg-ie of arban hoouseholds from 80,000 to 120,000 during the same
period.  Since 1975, production has fallen dramatically to a total of about
1,500 units, owing primarily to the evaporation of concessional financing and
to its increa_ingly higher standard and higher cost product.  Building costs
doubled be'tweea 1973-1977, while the average price per unit exclusive of land
quintupled from US-4,300 to tSS21,000.  Less than 10 percent of the Dakar
population qualifies for such housing.  Althouigh a 1982 OHIM projec' at Grand
'.edine represented a major breakthrough in reducing standards, it, too,
excludes more than two-thirds of the Dakar population.  The issue of
affordable standardis is fundamental to narrowing the gap between the fev who
are served and the majority who are not, and muss be addressed for both the
house designs as iwell as for the related infrastructure networks.
36.      Organizatioa and staffing constrain HLX'Cs operational efficiency.
OHLIK has not produced accounts since 1978, and therefore, no audit has
been prepared.  ?inancing for an audit is included in the Second Technical
Assistance Project for the Parapablic Sector (Credit 1398-SB). l3ost projects
have failed to take into account affordability considerations and, indeed,
have been conceived strictly on the basis of unrealistic technical
standards.  in addition, project financing plans have been prepared in
isolation of exDected borrowings, creating a negative cash nfow for each
operation. A statfing review and management audit are needed to develop an
appropriate strategy for improving staff development and deployment within the
istitution.
37.      Until 1981, OHL? programs relied on Covernment subsidies derived
mostly from a housing tax on salaried -wage earners.  The Fonds d'4melioration
de ltIabitat (FArK) is an earmarked treasury account created in 1976 to finance
public housing. Beginning in 1981, Government reallocated FAR's monies to the
newly opened Banque de lIRabitat dui Senegal (BHS), requiring 0O{IA to fund its
own operations. Since then OW[LA projects have been handicapped by limited
access to funds.  Vinancing practices are also critically deficient.  Recovery
of maintenance and management charges included in monthly rental payments have
declined by more than half over the past several years.  As a result,
buildings are very poorly maintained, if at all. A first step towards
improving OX's cash flow would be the setting of rents to recover all costs
and charges and their indexation to agreed upon parameters.  3fforts to
complete a rehabilitation program and contrat-plan for OMWX must also be
accelerated and must address the range of issues, e.g., standards, staff
development, and financial practices, which impede its efficient peraormance.
38.      Until recently, the Direction des Parcelles Assainies {DPA), which
was created within ORLY in 1972 to execute the Sites and Services Project
(Oredit 336-SE), was the only entity servicing land. In December 1983,
however, the Government modified 0LM's mandate, shifting it back towards its
original objective of providing low-cost housing for the population, while
proposing the creation of a separate land development agency. The
vovernment's proposal to establish such an agency should be supported, and
should be accompanied by a study of affordable design standards and
feasibility analyses of pilot operations for land development including
financing arrangements needed to ensure the agency's viability.  Legislation
should pro-fide it with the authority to appoint its staff, negotiate
borrowings, fix stamdards, and establish a rational pricing structure.



- 12 -
39.      The '3anque de l1Rabitat du Senegal (BHS).  In 1980, the Government
established the BIS with I?C assistance to provide a larger and more regular
supply of housino finance, contribute to increased domestic savings, and to
broaden lo-ver and middle income home ownership. While its savings record has
been promising, capital availability through FAR allocations has been erratic
and below expected levels. As a consequence, BHS has scaled down its lending
program. A review of BIS policies and funding sources is required. Measures
to increase private savings through existing housing cooperatives and other
groups should also be examined. Another problem is that BHS regulations
prevent it from broadening its clientele to accommodate the non-salaried
workers (primarily informal sector) who constitute approximately 45 percent of
the labor force.
Dakar/Cap Vert:  '1aintenance of TJrban Services
40.      Local government has a prime role to play in the efficient operation
of urban infrastructure. It is responsible for the maintenance of all
secondary roads, drains, markets, pTblic toilets, and primary schools and for
all but major capital investments. Wowever, because of an inherited tendency
in francophone Africa towards centralized authority, local government has
traditionally been weak and overshadowed by both ministries and parapublic
agencies. 4s a consequence, central government has assumed, de facto, some of
the maintenance functions, while leaving others to local authorities.  This
ad hoc approach has left responsiblities unclear, with the result that
execution outside central Dakar has been entirely ignored or is on the
decline.  Recent municipal reform legislation, while well meaning, has little
chance of improving the situation, since it calls for shifting the bulk of
maintenance responsibilities to local authorities, while withholding the
fiscal authority to permit them to do so effectively. & plan and timetable
for training and ftor building up a technical caDacity is also missing.
41.      3ecause of this situation, the availability and quality of urban
services varies markedly from a relatively complete and well-maintained
network in the city ceater, to overloaded, poorly maintained, or no services
at all in PilinefGuediawaye, where over half of the population lives and where
the bulk of the industrial activity is expected to develop. In this area,
sanitation, solid waste disposal, and, to a lesser extent, drainage are cause
for growing concern.  Water supply and public lighting are inadequate, due to
the city's backlog of unpaid bills to SONBES and SENELEC, which are
responsible for delivery and maintenance. GarKiage collection service is not
available in Pikine, with the result that trash is deposited directly into the
streets and drains, reducing their capacity.  Steady migration and population
growth have fueled the growth of already dense spontaneous settlements and
have generated pedestrian and vehicular traffic levels in excess of street
capacities. These conditions make the public transport system both difficult
and costly to operate. The future economic role of central Pikine requires a
comprehensive approach to these problems. As a first step, a structure plan
should be prepared which would identify main infrastructure required to
improve the efficiency and productivity of the economic activities which will
be located there.  In the short term, a traffic bureau should be established
and priority given to improving the streets and roads used by public
transport. Cost effective measures should be studied to establish maintenance
priorities and to design a package of minor street and junction rehabilitation
works along the main bus arteries.



- 13 -
42.      Failure to adequately maintain the existing secondary and tertiary
infrastructure networks in a period of tight public finance can have
especially se-rious consequences for the economic life of these networks and
would cut into the efficiency of existing economic activity.  It has been
estimated that failure to maintain Dakar's infrastructure network would result
in replacement costs of upwards of US$400 million, without any extension of
existing services, which is an essential condition to improved economic
performance over the longer term. For these reasons, Government should
introduce measures to program the regular maintenance of Dakar's existing
assets and to ensure their continued maintenance over the longer term.
43.      Considerable resources would have to be mobilized to finance a
rehabilitation and maintenance program. However, current annual revenues of
the city of Dakar are modest at best, due in large measu:- to poor assessment,
poor billings, and lax collection. This situation could be immediately
improved by simple measures such as regularly updating the tax rolls. The
failure to exploit potential revenue sources such as the property tax is
another reason for low municipal tax yields, and could be remedied over the
longer term in part by development and implementation of a fiscal cadaster.
Furthermore, a large portion of municipal resources is assured by transfers
from the Treasury (82 percent for Dakar in 1981) which are frequently delayed,
making forward planning impossible and contributing to the progressive
deterioration of assets off the Plateau. To begin to define suitable
measures, a review of Government-municipal relations should be carried out,
which would pay particular attention to the responsibilities, financial
obligations, and practices in the maintenanee of urban services.
44.      Another potential financing instrument is the Fonds d'Equipement des
Collectivites Locales (FECL), which is a special account in the Treasury.  It
was created in 1977 to finance priority works for munieipalities without
access to commercial borrowings. It was originally financed by the proceeds
of a surtax on gross business income collected by central government, and
subsequently fed by a budgetary transfe-r from the Ministry of Finance.
Neither arrangement provided a reliable source of funds, given the country's
economic climate and financial constraints. Thus the FBECL has had limited
operations to date.  However, experience elsewhere suggests that with
appropriate financing arrangements, this type of fund can be a viable
instrument for municipal development. The Government should explore this
avenue through a suitable restructuring which would permit the FECL' s
replenishment and expansion of operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Past IDA Assistance
45.      IDA involvement in urban issues in Senegal began in 1972 wvith a
credit to help finance the Bank's fi-st Sites and Services Project
(Credit 336-SE). The Credit was closed in 1981, and is analyzed in detail in
a separate Project Completion Report dated October 31, 1983. This report
concluded that, under difficult circumstances compounded by a deteriorating
economic climate, the Government successfully completed an overly large and



- 14 -
ambitious first project. Appronximately 12,000 lower-enst, lower-standard
serviced plots were provided to incone groups which had been traditionally
exeluded from conventinnal and costly public shelter schemes. A number of
policy issues critical to the replicability of sites and services programs
were not totally resolved, e.g., improved mechanisms for recovering program
costs, reduction of Government subsidies, and the availability of housing
finance to all income groups.  In 1980, the Government requested IDA 'o carry
out a sector review to further examine these and other arban development
issues.  The Government subsequently requested IDA assistance for a Technical
Assistance Credit to help design an urban rehabilitation strategy.  A Bank
preparation mission went to the field in February 1983 and the project was
appraised in July 1983.  EPEVRY (Etablissement Public d'Evry Ville Nouvelle,
France), a new town development corporation, assisted an ad hoc Steering
Committee created by the Hinistry of Planning and Cooperation in February 1983
in preparing the project (para. 54). Negotiations were held in March 1984
with a delegation headed by -Lr. Cheikh KebB, Secretary General of the Ministry
of Planning and Cooperation. Terms of Reference for resident experts and
short-term consultants were agr-eed upon during negotiations.  There is no
separate apprai3al report.
Justification for Bank Involvement
46.      The project's focus on making Dakar/Cap Vert a more efficient support
of productive activities reflects the Government's rehabilitation strategy for
the Seventh Plan which emphasizes (a) improved investment planning and
monitoring; (b) parapublic enterprise reform; (c) resource mobilization; and
Id) improved capital utilization, maintenance, and management of existing
investment_.  Progress on meeting these objectives is essential if Senegal is
to iap-ove its economic performance.  Since the tendency for donors is
frequently to finance new capital investment, this project offers an important
opportunity to help redirect donor lending and to provide early and concrete
suppo-t to the Government's efforts.
47.      Attempts were made to mobilize co-financing (FAC, CIDA, USAID,
Federal Republic of Germany) but with no concrete results. Government also
sought bilateral assistance, but has noot been successful.  The Federal
Republic of Germany (GTZ), which participated in the appraisal mission, plans
to finance a package of complementary works as a separate project.
Project Objectives
48.      The project's long-term objective will be to support improvements to
Senegal's economic performance by introducing reforms which maximize public
savings and by improving the operational efficiency of public entities
involved in urban management, maintenance, and shelter delivery. The proposed
project represents a first step in this direction.  If the approach is
successful, jelected secondary centers could be included in a future IDA
project.
49.      The proposed project's short-te-m objeetives are:
(a)  to improve the allocation of scarce public resources in urban
areas through better investment planning and programming;



- 15 -
(b)  to formulate a housing and urban policy based on an appropriate
allocation of resources; and
(c)  to maintain the existing level of urban services through
strengthening the capacity of the city of Dakar to plan and
program rehabilitation and maintenance works and to mobilize
resources.
Project Description
A. Urban Investment Planning and Programming
50.      (a)  Technical assistance will be provided to the Steering Committee
for:
(i)    Project Start-up Activities.  Preparation of terms of
reference for studies, 1/ resident specialists and short-
term consultants; and
Cii)   Supervision. Technical monitoring over the life of the
Project.
gb)  Short-term consultant services, office equipment, and 40 man-
months of residept specinalists would be provided to the
Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Urban Development, and
Equipment to prepare the urban sector investment program of the
Seventh Plan including:
gi)    Methodology Study.  This study will define g a.delines for
appraisal and selection of urban rehabilitation projects,
and for monitOring their physical and financial
implementation;
(ii)   Completion of the Structure Plan for Dakar/Cap Vert.
Assistance will be provided to the ministry or urban
Development to complete this Plan in ordcr to program
rehabilitation works for serviced land for inclusion in
the Seventh Plan; and
Ciii)  Completion of the Transport Plan for the Cap Vert
Region.  Assistance will be provided to the Ministry of
Equipment to complete this Plan in order to program
investments for the Seventh Plan.
B. Hciusing and Urban Policy
51.      This component will provide short-term consultant services,
equipment, and 17 man-months of resident specialists to the Ministry of Urban
Development, BHS, and OHLM for:
11   Terms of Reference for proposed studies will be attached to a
Supplemental Letter.



- 16 -
(a) Housing Finance. This study will consist of:
(i)    an affordability analysis including calculation of costs
and prices of subsidized housing and a review of existing
resource mobilization mechanisms and of low-cost housing
finance through the social housing bank (BHS); and
(ii)   recommendations based on the above analysis aimed at
improving resource mobilization and at increasing private
sector participation in the financing of low-cost
housing.
(b) Management of State-owned Properties. This study will analyze
State-owned properties and related charges and revenaes and
formulate recommendations on ways to reduce subsidies and to
improve rent collection by parapublic housing companies and by
the State;
(c)  Rehabilitation of OHLN. A rehabilitation program leading to the
preparation of a contrat-plan will be designed along the lines
of the Second Technical Assistance Project for the Parapublie
Sector (Credit 1398-SE), aimed at lower-cost, lower-standard
housing operations affordable by the bottom two-thirds of the
urban population;
(d) Land Development Agency. A study will be carried out to assess
the feasibility of creating an autonomous agency for servicing
urban land with infrastructure for residential, commercial, and
industrial use, and for community facilities, and focussing
inter alia on standards affordable to the bottom two-thirds of
the urban population; and
(e) Pilot Designs. This study will recommend standards and
appropriate pricing policies to develop land at different
service levels affordable to the bottom two-thirds of the urban
population. Based on the results of this study, two analyses
will be prepared:
(i)    a feasibility study for one or two sites for land
development in Dakar/Cap Vert; and
(ii)   the detailed design and engineering of an infrastructure
rehabilitation plan for part of central Pikine, based on
a structure plan for Pikine 'o be prepared under
A (b) (ii) above.
C. Municipal Policy
52.      This component will provide short-term consultant services, equipment
and spare parts, and 68 man-months of resident specialists to the city of
Dakar, the Ministries of Finance and Interior, and short-term consultant
services, equipment and civil works, and 57 man-months of resident specialists
to the Ministry of Equipment for:



- 17 -
(a)  Municipal Organization and Management.  This sub-component will:
(i)    review and make recommendations for improving
Government/Dakar relations regarding service delivery and
maintenance;
(ii)   identify and introduce actions to improve the fiDnacial
management and resource mobilization capacity of the city
of Dakar; and
(iii)  analyze the mandate, operations, and financing of the
Fonds d'Equipement des CollectivIt6s Locales (FECL) as a
financing instrument for municipal works.
(b) Maintenance. This sub-component will:
(i)    make recommendations on alternative solutions for regular
maintenance of street lighting, water supply from
standpipes, public corveniences, etc.;
(ii)   establish a system to plan and program maintenance and
rehabilitation, and provide financing for purchase of
urgently needed equipment and spare parts to repair
existing equipment; and
(iii)  introduce cost accounting and procedures for preparation
of annual budgets for the Technical Department.
(c) Establishment of a Traffic Bureau. This sub-component will:
Ci)    establish a Traffic Bureau within the Directorate of
Studies and Programming of the Ministry of Equipment and
provide assistance for design of a priority action
program for traffic management to improve circulation for
pedestrians, buses, and service vehicles in and around
central Pikice; and
(ii)   provide funds for construction and monitoring of the
first year of a traffic management program including
footpath surfacing, paving of roads for bus access,
junction improvements, and traffic signalization.
(d) Training Program. This sub-component will consist of:
Ci)    identification of technical and administrative staffing
requirements and an outline of a priority training
program for Dakar; and
(ii)   training of selected staff of the city of Dakar via
short-term traineeships, workshops, and seminars as
agreed upon with the Association.



- 18 -
Projec't Implementation
53.      The project will be executed over four years (1984-1987) (world Bank
Chart 25466 which appears in Annex VIII). The Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation will be responsible for coordinating project administration. A
Project Director, who has been appointed by the Minister of Planning and
Cooperation, will be responsible for all administrative tasks related to
project implementation, e.g., preparing withdrawal requests, managing the
Deposit Account (para. 63), and preparing quarterly reports. The Director of
Construction, who is chairman of the commi4tee responsible for the urban
sector for the purposes of the preparation of the Seventh Plan, has been named
Technical Director of the proposed project.  He will be responsible for                  O
ensuring that the methodology, data base, and technical standards of the
various sub-components prepared by the concerned ministries/agencies are
consistent and in line with project objectives.  The qualifications and
experience of the Project Director and of the Technical Director have been
reviewed and are acceptable to the Association. Their appointment was
confirmed at negotiations (Sections 3.05 (a) (b) of the draft Development
Credit and draft Special Fund Credit Agreements).
54.      The Project Director and the Technical Director will provide
assistance to a Steering Committee chaired by the Planning Director of the
Ministry of Planning and CooDeration. This Committee which is a successor to
the ad hoe Committee formed for project preparation will be composed of
representatives f-rom the Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Urban
Development, Equipment, Finance, Interior, and the Secretariat of
Decentralization, SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELEC, and the city of Dakar. An official
letter from the Minister of Planning and Cooperation confirming the
appointment of the chairman and members of the Steering Committee will be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Committee will review all reports and make recommendations to
the concerned ministries and agencies on actions to be taken to improve the
performance of the urban sector.  The Committee, through ihe Project Director
and Technical Director, will be assisted in the detailed supervision and
monitoring of all project components by EPEVRY, which will enter into an
agreement with the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation for this purpose.  The
selection of EPEVRY was made by the Government as a pilot twinning arrangement
aimed at providing expertise in all aspects of urban management. EPEVRY was
selected because of its experience in (a) developing serviced land for
residential, commercial, and industrial activity; (b) financing urban
development with minimum Government assistance; and (c) organizing
municipalities for maintenance and resource mobilization. Detailed executing
arrangements were agreed upon at negotiations.
55.      The Government is prepared to move rapidly on measures which would
strengthen the policy and institutional framework to more efficiently manage
urban growtli. Accordingly, the Government agreed at negotiations to a
timetable of key actions to accelerate project implementation. The most
important of these actions include the following:
(a) completion of an OHLM audit by September 30, 1984;
(b) notification of measures to improve collection of charges from
sites and services allottees by September 30, 1984;



- 19 -
(e) notification of measures taker. to improve collection of
municipal revenues by September 30, 1984; and
(d) government decision on allocation of responsibility between
central government and Dakar for delivery and maintenance of
urban services by December 31, 1984.
The timetable of key target dates for project implementation which was agreed
at negotiations appears in Annex IV.
D. Technical Assistance: Role and Responsibilities
56.      To ensure development of a sound institutional/policy frauework, to
facilitate execution of the sub-components, and to provide on-the-job training
for Senegalese staff, short-term consultant services and resident specialists
will be financed. In areas where the Senegalese have experience, (e.g.,
completion of the Dakar Structure and Transport Plans, Housing and Urban
Policy component), short-term consultant services in an advisory capacity will
be used, permitting refinements to existing techniques and ensuring the
reinforcement of skills acquired through other project implementation,
external training, and seminars abroad. Where experience is lacking or
limited, and policies and operational procedures no longer suited to
Government's rehabilitation strategy, (e.g., investment programming, municipal
management and maintenance, traffic management, and land development agency),
the formula of resident specialists with primary technical responsibility has
been retained. The use of Senegalese experts, where available, will be
stressed.
57.      [easures have been incorporated into the project design to assure the
quality of technical assistance input and to facilitate Senegalese
continuation of activities at project completion:
Ca) the Project Director and Technical Director will interview all
candidates prior to final selection;
(b) terms of reference include provision for on-the-job training and
the development of short seminars and workshops where practical
during the course of project execution;
(e) counterpart staff will be identified at the outset and work
programs defined with a view towards transfer of responsibility
at the earliest appropriate time; and
(d) in addition to the general advisory services which EPEVRY will
furnish the Steering Committee, the contract between EPEVRY and
the Government will make special provision for short-term
exchanges of staff between the new town of Evry and the city of
Dakar, and for seminars and workshops with a view towards
developing operational arrangements for technical twinning.



- 20 -
E. Project Costs and Financing
58.      The table in Annex V sets out the detailed cost estimates of the
proposed project. Costs for resident specialists (182 man-months),
cnnsultants, and advisory services, including fees, subsistence, and travel,
are based on recent experience in Senegal and have been estimated at about
US$11,000 per staff-month (which includes services, overhead, fees, travel,
and other reimbursable expenses) for foreign experts and US$1,000 for
Senegalese experts. Participation of Senegalese experts accounts for about
30 percent of technical assistance costs. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10 percent of the estimated base cost.  For foreign expenditures
price escalation was estimated at 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985,
and 6 percent for subsequent years. For local expenditures price escalation
was estimated at an anrual inflation rate of 7 percent.
59.      The total financing requirements, excluding taxes and custom duties
but including contingencies, are estimated at US$6.65 million, of ihich about
US$5.0 million or 75 percent of the total cost would be foreign exchange. An
allocation of US$3.05 million equivalent and US$2.95 million equivalent is
proposed as IDA's and the Special Fund's respective contributions to the
project. The total of US$6.0 million woll finance 90 percent of total costs,
including the entire foreign exchange cost and about US$1.0 million of local
costs, the latter taking into account the country's serious financial
constraints. The Government's contribution, amounting to US$650,000 over the
four-year life of the project, will finance 20 percent of the cost of
Senegalese experts and the national consulting firm (SONED) and office
facilities and supplies. To ensure completion of the Dakar Structure and
Transport Plans, enabling their timely input into the preparation of the
Seventh Plan, and to carry out a variety of start-up activities, US$450,000
is being financed under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
Activities under the PPF have started and the PPF advance will be refinanced
by the proposed Credit.
Monitoring and Supervision
60.      It is assumed that supervision will require approximately 70 staff
weeks over the life of the project, and will involve specialists in land
development, traffic management, housing and municipal management.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      The table in Annex VI sets out the procurement arrangements which
were agreed upon at negotiations. Eight separate contracts will be awarded
for project execution.  The completion of the Structure Plan for the Cap Vert
Region will be executed through an amendment to the existing contract to be
negotiated Between the Ministry of Urban Development and the joint venture
Societe Nouvelle des Etudes de Dgveloppement en Afrique/Bureau Central
d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (SONED/BCEOM). The completion of
the Transport Plan for the Cap Vert Region will be executed through an
amendment to the existing contract to be negotiated between the M4inistry of
Equipment and the joint venture Societe Nouvelle des Etudes de Developpement
en Afrique/Societ'e Centrale d'Equipement du Territoire (SONED/SCET). These
two contract amendments will be financed under the PPF after review and
approval by the Association. A direct contract between the Ministry of



- 21 -
Planning and Cooperation and EPEVRY is being negotiated for advisory
services. Technical assistance has been grouped in four contracts which will
be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines on the use of consultants.
Civil works and equipment for the traffic management program will be procured
through LCB in which foreign suppliers and contractors will be eligible to
participate. LCB procedures have been reviewed and are neceptable for the
purposes of the project. About US$200,000 of small items (individual
purchases not to exceed US$20,000) such as office equipment and spare parts
will be purchased by local shopping, with at least three price quotations.
All IDA and Special Fund-financed contracts will be subject to prior review by
the Association.  The Association will review all biddinp documents under LCB
and all quotations for local shopping prior to the award of all such
contracts.
62.      Proceeds from the Special Fund Credit will be u '-d to finance
expenditures for goods produced in, or services from, any of the following
countries: (a) any Part II member of the Association and (b) those countries
which at the time of signing the Credit Agreement have notified or advised the
Administrator in writing that they intend to make an SP Contribution in a
minimum amount conforming with paragraph 4 of the Special Fund Resolution, or
(e) which had notified or advised the Association in writing that they intend
to make a Special Contribution in such a minimum amount to the FY84 Account
and had advised the Association in writing that such Special Contribution was
to be treated in the same manner as an SF Contribution for purposes of any
future adjustment of the voting rights of the members of the Association.
Disbursement
63.      The disbursement schedule is in Annex VII.  Disbursement will be on
the basis of (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures on equipment, materials, supplies, and services of specialists
and consultants; (ii) 80 percent of total expenditures on civil works; and
(iii) 100 percent of total expenditures for training. All expenditures will
be fully documented. A condition of disbursement for preparation of the two
analyses described. in para. 51 (e) will be that an agreement be reached on the
recommendations for standards and pricing of alternative service levels for
land development (Schedule 1, para. 4 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). To make Credit funds available in a timely manner and to expedite
project implementation, two accounts in the name of the Ministry of Planning-
Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project will be
established (Sections 2.02 (c) and 3.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). An initial advance in CFA Francs equivalent to US$400,000 from
the IDA Credit, equal to four months of expected project expenditures for
technical assistance, equipment, and supplies, will be deposited in a Special
Account in a commercial bank, and an advance of CFAF 15 million from the
Borrower's own resources in a Deposit Account in the Treasury. The Project
Director will oversee the Deposit Account. The Director of Debts and
Investments in the Ministry of Finance will oversee the Special Account.
Procedures for the operation of the Special Account are set forth in the draft
Development Credit Agreement and will be set forth in a Supplemental Letter
(Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Procedures for the
operation of the Deposit Account were agreed upon with the Government at
negotiations.  Opening of the accounts will be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
64.      The estimated disbursement per-iod of five years, -hich assumes a
12 month lag between expenditure and disbursement, is shorter than average for
technical assistance projects Bankwride. Disbursement profiles do, however,
show that 90 percent of the total amouct of technical assistance credits is
disbursed within five to six years.  In Seregal as well, 90 percent of the
disbursement profiles for all sectors show that total project funds are
disbursed withir five to six years. The disbur-sement period for this project
is based on this experience, together -with the it-roduction of a number of
measures to expedite disbursements.  For example, the PPF advance has
permitted the timely start-up of a number of activities critical to project
implementation. The establishment of the Special Account for the IDA Credit
and the Deposit Account for counterpart funds should also ae-elerate
disbursement.
Audits and Reports
65.      The Project Direetor will keep separate records for all expenditur-es
attributable to the project. Project expenditures will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association for pu-poses of the
p-oject.  Their report will be submitted to the Association within six months
of -he close of the fiscal yea-r. The Steering Conmittee, through the Project
Direczor and Tee)'-Ical Di=ect-=, will -regularly monxlto progress on studies,
-echnical assistance, and traixing, an-d will prepare regular quarterly
p-ogress reports fo- revievw by the Association.
w-oject Benefits
66.      The EPEVRY prepa-ation team strongly recommended improved investment
planning, policy formulation, and strengthened institutions as preconditions
to the bet'te- manraement of the Cap Vert Region.  Implementation of these
recommondntions is expected to pay for itself in the sho-t term and provide
additional untapped revenues to improve the efficiency of economic activities
in the Cap Vert Region. Among the general types of benefits that can be
expected are the followlng:
(a) national and municipal budgets of an estimated USS1OO million
for the four-year Plan period will be significantly shaped by
the investment programming, plarning, and design of projects
provided fo- in the proposed project.  Guidelines will be
developed which emphasise priority for infrast-uetur-e that
serves industrial development in the Region and should provide a
key input into Government's industrial strategy;
(b)  preliminary studies of land development costs in the Cap Tert
Region indicate that development of lower cost design standards
could lead to a doubling of population covered, without
increasing costs, or conversely, a reduction by half in costs.
Expenditures for such works are estimated at approximately
USS7 million per year;
(c)  doubling the level of annual expenditures to USS4 million on
road maintenance for the Cap Vert Region could be expected
to lead to a ne' present value of savings on the order of



- 23 -
US$30 million at a discount rate of 10 pereent over a ten-year
period. Such savings woluld result from avoiding major
reconstruction works which are inevitable in the absence of
adequate maintenance.  The emphasis on maintenance requirements
in the formulation of the Seventh Plan, together With the
resource mobilizatior efforts ineluded in the project, should
make such a shift feasible;
(d) imnproved financial management of the city of Dakak could
generate USS1.0 million per year, within about a year, through
*                      relatively simple tightening of collection methods.  Over the
longe- term, leveloplent of a land cadaster could at least
double annual revenues from the present level of USS2.7 million
(1981-1982) lhrough extencion of the area covered and the
updating of property values;
(e) the provision of spare parts would permit operation of over two-
thirds of the maintenance fleet which is presently idle; and
Cf)  -ates of return for traffic engineering measures implemented
elsewhere in Africa in conditions similar to those found in the
Cap Vert Region range from 40 percent to 60 percent.
Other benefits include possible reductions in publie expenditures through
ercouragi.ng the privatization of house construction, the sub-contracting of
ce-rutain municipal functions, and better coordination among agencies in
planning and design of investments. Targets Will be developed by the Steering
Committee to mon1tor progress.
Project Risks
67.      There is one man risk:  the Government's political commitment to
effectively manage urban growth within exLsting macroeconomic financial
constraints. The ad hoc Steering Committee created by the Ninistry of
Planning and Cooperation, which prepared the proposed project, has met
regularly since February 1983, and its members report directly to ministers
and other officials involved in urban management. This arrangement has worked
so far and has encouraged agencies to consider the implications of
uncoordinated interventions on longer term development targets.  Formal
establishment of a Steering Committee and its linking to the linistry's
itistitutional arrangements set up for aid coordination and for definition of
a national rehabilitation strategy should further m7inimize the risk.
Considering the importance of well-managed urban centers to the country's
economy, this risk is wor-th taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Development Credit Agreement and the Spec al Fund Credit
Agreemert between the Republic of Senegal and the Association, and the
recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the A-ticles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.



- 24 -
69.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III of this report. The opening of the Special Account
and Deposit Account (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) and formal confirmation of the member-hip of the Steering Committee
(Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) are special
conditions of effectiveness.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles cf Agreement of the Association and that the proposed Special Fund
Credit would comply with Resolution Jo. IDA 82-6 of the Executive Directors of
the Association establishing the Special Fund.
PART VI - RECOHMEkDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and Special Fund Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
!(arch 27, 1984



ANNEX I
- 25 -
T A U L E  3                                       FAE  I
SErIW                  - SOCUI. rnIDICAs bAfl SREET
SEEQGL                               REFERENICF iRnPS (SKIQTED AVERAGES) la
qOST                    (VRT RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECEN             hDDtE IeWs             DhOE ixcuur
196Iff     19711  ESTDT%rSL        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA   I. AFRICA 4 HTD EAST
ARAA (ThROSA 5Q. C)
TrotL                              196_2       196.2      196.2
ArCrIcLrxn                          99.2      104.5       109.3
aGr FM CAT  CuSS)                     180.0      240.0       430.0             1147.9                   1340.0
cr aimurwu FM corn
(CITLOCM-S OF COAL SMGTVALEVr)     555s0      SI9O        364_0              724.2                    810.4
HOAPE   SD VIAL S5TrSTICS
POPJLAT;IW..W1-IEAR (TIWSAIDS)   3498.0      4391.0      5S2.O I
CUR8L POPIATIOI (: OF TOrAL)       23.0        30.0        33_4               Z8.5                     47.4
POPLLATIO5 PROJECTIORS
POPMLATION is YEAR e00  t .LL)                           10.2
'I,                      STrATTOSAZ POPLATTOS (MILL)                               36.4
WFAR STArTIOSR  POP. REACED                             21
POPULATIOs DEssITY
PER S9.              IJ. 17.8                22.4        29.1               5623                     36_0
PER SQ- EM. ACt. LAND            3s.3        42.0        52_2              131-P                    449-0
POPuLATTOS AKF STRUCTURE ()
0-1  YRS                        4227        43.9       44.8               45.'                      43.9
15-6  TRS                         54.3      S532         52.4               51Z2                     52.8
6S 450D ABOWE                      3.0        2.9         2.8                2.R                      3.3
PoPATrIoE   aW  tArE C)
roTA L                             24        2.3         2.6                Z.6                      Z_;
,R545                              3.0        4.9         3.?                5.3                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIas)        47.9        46.6        47*9               47.6                     42.5
aUE DEA-T RATE (PER TiUS)          26.5        23.2        21.0 Io2                                    12.0
CROSS REPRODUCTIOX RATE              3.2        3.2         3.2                3.2                      3.0
FARtY PLASNING
.CePrORs, aWAL (TRoL-S)
UlSERS (C OF MARRIED  uWt)          --         -'
PO  AND DIISrr
TNDEX OF FOOD TP-. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      1S2O       83.0        90.0               95.7                     97.5
PER CAPITA SOww.r oF
CALOtES CZ OF RSMUIREREMS)        97.0       96.0       100.0               97.4                    102.3
PEOTEIWS (CRAMS PER  A).4         65.0       64.0        71.0              56.0                      n.o
OF .711CH ASL. AD PMLSE          20.0       20.0        19.0/e             172Z                     172_
CR11. (ACES 1-) DEtr RITE          4t.9        36.8        31.1              23.6                      15.2
LtFE EXPECT. AT E1TR (YEARS)        37.2       4Q.3        43.9               51.9                     57.2
ISFAsr SORT. RATE (Pt TROCS)       11.7       164.4       14.6              117.6                     104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE wATER T-POP)
roTAAL                                                   37.016             25.4                     59.3
68.07;1           70.5                      84.9
RERAL                               --          --       23.0 7             12.3                     37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSIL
(t OF PoPULAtIoN)
TOTAL                               --          --
UTRSA,                              ..          ..         .                   ._
_ ~ ~          ~    UA                                  . .        -..,
POPULATION PER PUSr tStcx       24990.0    16700.0    13800.0Ie            12161.6                   3536.0
POP. PER tURSIXC PERSON           2M0        1940.0      lao0.0f            2292.0                   1820.7
POP. PER HosPrTA MD
roreL                            so.o       Bt10.0      900Oe             1075.4                    643.3
U-SAI                            30.0/f    450.0        560.07;1           402.3                    545.0
RUIRL                           temTf07-   1240.0      t260.07r           3926.7                   2462Q0
ADMISSIO*¶S PER HoSPITAL   t.                  22.2        29.21c                  --                  26.4
AVERAff  SIZE OF HSELNDL
TOTAL                                                    ..                 ..
URDAI                               .          7.6/h
RURAL                               , _. 7__
ALERACE so. OF PERSOHSIROOI
TOTAL
CrIA1S                              ..          ..         .                   ..
RURAL                               ' ''
ACCESS TO ELECT. C= OF DMELLIZGS)
TAL                                             .     .                       ..                     46_2
CRA _C                                          .          _                                         77.6
RURAL                               ..          *-          *_                __                     16.1



- 26 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE  3&                                          FACE 2
SENEGAL                - SOCIAL INOICATOBS DA  suEE
SUN%ISL                               KiPEREMEE GRUPS (WLGIT        IS) La
NOST                     (OST IECENT ESTINATE) Ib
19SOa~      197{  -EST &Tgfb       ARICA S. OF SH11      3. ARICA & MD  UST
flOCAflS
AWUSTED fMLLTXE  KATIOS
PRInAY:  TOTAL                    27.0         38.0       ".0                 97.2                     89.6
HALL                    36.0        47.U        53.0              103.1                    IOLS.
FLIALE                  17.0        30.0        35.0              ".5                        72.4
SiXWiuMY: uTAL                      l.u        9.U         10.0               17.2                      4L.
:ALS                    &4U         1i a        14.0               23.5                      52.4
SCwSAL"                  2.0        5.0         7.0               16.2                      31.2
vUrCAIOSAL (4 OF SECOCDARY)          3.1          9.2         8.8                5.2                      10.3
U'PII-TEACIER RArTO
PXLIAI                             43.0/f      45.0        43.0               42.9                      31.1
SECUSDAXY                          34.C        34.0        21.0/c            23.7                       23.3
ADOLT LITERACY RATE r(X               5.6LJ      10.0       lO.O/c             37.1                       43.3
PASSCIGEAt CARS/DOUSASO POP           5.7         8.7         9.2/k             1S,                      11.0
#L4010 RECEVERS/UOUSAND, POP         35.7        61.0       52.C               97.6 83.1
TV RECECEVESITUOUS*SD wO               ..         0.3         0.71J             13.6                      45.6
MCJSPAPERA Cu-ML? CESEAL
L'rEIEsTf  CaICULATLOS
PEr THDUSASO POPULATLOS              5.7         4.6         4.5               18.2                      31.0
CIrEHA AMWAZL ArT AWCAP1TA             ..         ..          0.                 0.6                       1.7
LAMM lC
TOTAL (lofOlCE Cr80s0)             1598.0      1931.U      2466.0
F'L   (ErcciT)                   40.d        40.Z         39.8               36.1                     10.7
.:IOLILTURE (PECenT)               04.0        dO.9        76.9               56.8                      42.5
L:CSRT CPEEcrz)                     5.0        7.0         MO.               17.5                      27.6
tAitT1CtPAILO aATtC (PCAC-TJ
rcr;a                             45.7        44.0        43.3               37.0                      25.6
A                                  3;54.4      53.1        SZ.o               47.1                      45.4
S37.1                                         35.0        34.1               27.o                       5.6
ECSJ0flC uCfaEc      KEf r g. 1.0                 1.1         1.1                1.3                       .a
I_cNm DIST3ZUrzT
PEnCc.r OF FAlVATi LSCUut
KECIVEU BY
MISET  54  uF dseWdULOS            36.811
d1GdtST 20r OF NOUSEOWLS            2.5/1       ..          ..                 ..                          .
uIwEST 20t OF HOUSaIGLOS            3.Z7T
InEST 401t OF daUSEIOL3s           9.47i1
-m  TUM= WIPS
ESTl&lAT_ AbSOLUTlE LutIeR! iBoIE
LEYC. (CUSS PEC CAPITA)
IMaSX                               ..          ..          ..               534.2                     276.1
RiuRAL                              ..          ..         82.01.           255.9                      177.1
STLATED RELATIVE POVERTY LfClI
LEVEL (USS PES CAPITA)
UNA                                 ..          ..       194.0/e            491.5                     400.0
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..              I8o.1                     283.3
WSTMAT1W POP. aBEI ABSOLUTE
POVEaT! LECUrIE LEVEL. (A)
datls.                                           .           ..                                        22.0t
KUYAL                               ..          ..                                                      30u.
.aXir AVAILA8LZ
SOT APPLICABLE
S  T   £5 S 
Ia  hne group averages for each laaicator are populatLo-ewtghted aritchetic man. Coverage of coutries wmmg cbe
IndLcators depends on avallability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960 ruler to any year betveen 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970' betwee  19b9 ad
1971; and data for -lost tecent Cst tats- betwee  1979 and 1931.
/c  1977; Id 1976; Ie 1978; If 1962; Aj 19b3; /h 1973; IL 1955; Li Afrtcan population only: Jk 1974; 11 Populatton.
may 1953



- 27 -                                                                            ANNE I
)b   .7144   4*.r   1 1-3t1.W e."t- *o.p 1ic-  -6.e  e.at.p ." by d) * .-te, -or.  alI  nnl.   iInc.m    e. It.1.                                           Ow.u W741
ceo..t L.4 .  lbe k-c  .4l...    11o1.c..           rap   1  44441  5        11.t 3441w.U. 4.3444   4441  44.3ltlLl -1 4.14  -41.4.1ft   441.4%t 441 t44 4441 3
..r      -I3    ...L . 9f-I.  1- l1aa   c..4..    14.....e S                         1lI e".d..aW II      . -AtoZt  .of .   -134 1.c  4413-. -c.t11 (041t  444
lel.roe. crap..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~h.~Y .
04. cn..4ad  q.44,p                                            7.,.1.aa..rX~~~~~~rk4. - 4.441*1144 41.14.4mp .401.4.1 p1.c.cbaCl.cr-tteU
- ?c.I ..f...r.ea.,a.lc   1.4   t. .4 31.44.4144   9134.      ~        ~        f.~ff1Tn*nac    .-1 t  .4344317  .v.
cern, caT. (asi  -I=7WI cs.4t.    L-t a...  1  00        t44  041t .                         av.aale le W.111  .44 ranc   W--I. ad .peat4   .p                      44
tal.a..4   y       ...441_  _ntIs  - 1,14 41  *1tt_ rain9-el b-.41.:                        rbbltuttaltoo               Nnptc.j. 431  C.M41  .M314-7    ivu.neTl  ocef 1
lio  ac  a  nt at..                                                                      my a  1444  ..  *hydIt-tc..9btllli-t.   -Sdiagn P.4-apefly c.wM1s1
-sr  -4  -   1n14d    44-       1.l.I R-nea  l.c144  1.011  .4
Twa31  oo.944f1'a c can    - s1o-   ..... -.........  ;7IccI                                       edIc-I n..r   a  p         - tv .cc   y .rIS ;    pby.1.ac. cm.. my. -4341-
pta-..  -c4v (cost ad1alull.. 44trle-a  ..a.ts  14. W44 tr. ..a..                                n..    -4 *4. .14.1.. cc.)  I.Aa   f11- 1.-nd..  .e.4.-ftle  .4
.n   ......3 ...cc-1-3 a. blla     a .o cat vl.1.clc   P.t -tcp ;                           P-L.clb    11.11.  erm 4f -414.I f.c.latcl.  4W .cUalc.lgn .
E=    d...-                                                       b-pt"t.~~~~~~34r1.. 14*   4  ostkot.. 4 Vy 51.Uv 4 11ad nc.. 31   ~.I.n
'k,                                                        ft -f 0141. 11 1.14.14  (1aecA41 .4 t.c.1PL-t ccl..f,  f  ftfc. c-cC. r lctl...
14514441114  yag  .4  44441.   --IlC-            o  1.4.- 113y  cW. ton.k-I4for .eta.Y3c1  p-I....
ra..   P4.1.c    tcr.ie  OtdlI  414  ..rt.473gw.                                       -.. ..t  1  .o.44    31..-.3..s.  na  ..4 -Pa..
ccpac.1o.    lta  .4   o..g.alt. .p.c.wc .cMala.r  54 77.1                      4n1.c...pc lny.  3-a... .016.4                                ..n        a
Pvecr.  Tb    rvoctft.11744  .110 1.4   11.    O.141   ...occaet4C  pert...ft 
-.01441144  Cf= t44147 44   .4111417 .r4o34pcc14pto.a111  44.                                                       oIdaIttIc.  -.p-.114L1.
clcct 1   lIft!"ca -. qg3  ct. -.I-         I 0*1-. Ch-  L 1. W g K014l4
*ttmCol  rcIn 4441.t%t13. t. seb-no  o-ly cltc  9.4.33cc  rs4                          n.  £4e4l4..   utcc
c..c  4~.~4444.  an.-cVt-. tI.-It oo1y.  Mhe.Icl..                                       nI.c 01   .6c aC at. an.fl.aoy  level .." pFc.c               .   epocti
.opsac1 - .I   c.s- ..ca.4.4.411         4s.?  11.  pfjed    tar..ce-                                b-1.4  .dj0.1In. pOllIl.4  t40.117 .14.133 .             c4p4- y0-t
1.11444   1. .441.3*13* c. ye. 214. aok-45lc 414.311-l                        -e .4Jnt.C 1. b41410 - 111ct. 44  fl.4y1  S.b ctI: 7
14.1 c44;1930 1ii'0. 44 19110                                                                   -"I. ..1    --II,3 ci 17 44 Ii ye.  7so   arcp4.c  444
ncr.-  1.  clelscl34  - Ca.p44. -  ato   4  g44l45   3.44g-.W4cl7 .4414..
LT1; 390  173ac   93  a.                                                                  VcI.c.   -.114.t 144444  .7 neSy)-Wo.la.                          91.aNI.n
14..114 4. trcecteIs-Te.g) - adge. co-a. ..-..~  -.&ao--oc  (as-                          less.~ -n0        .   -nl   -.1   -4 ct3.  prmW    fllc.  v-r"434.
- yesl), a   t.tl.4  111  -.r   adeWd  .e.c...14                 .                         _Jrlpo _- 4414-04  ci  --44.4   ncalIF
I%TOa14  lm.  90  a  tI"  ecc.                                                     VllIt.414rc.p.4,                .a   c4ar-Tos Io  ..l4I
4134-141. ttc.ll l..e fv.=fct -tet - cc  R-.M1 14144  137.1 .14-                                   rcqa    .o4r   ees4.445  .at.. 47c.ccZ                     n 1 11. 444-
pcp.cclc. 14 390-44. 1111.0. .4 1     t1..-.                                         *4414444. tIInc  44-c U44.4.14             ,A-cd  1  M.        WI4 -.o4
1.4   1e111  14  IOcs4)   4111.41 1340. Icrlla444ct...-4? 3
ic'E. atW   41  Ip.. E31..Wc.J  - .Am-,nLI 4c.c1a        4kP..44-- ci 4    d-or41..0    at7 ta-ata41c14)-Inu.444n44   .o
E44.14:193,  lW.-444 -399   d...                                                               e*e ttb-1  .n1144r 3*Ct...43..43    ~ t.lc          Ccc.   .r
1f    .4403441.     rc.14.!4.tcr   -                       .11 ar. 3..11144  .14.1.9 C-t. -Mii"-.                                                        t        -.
l.-t41t   sI;111.    :11FW43v4     I-c41v1404 .414  3  1 . 1910. ad                            14-ect II to....  P-1311  por 41444.  peled..; .01440  .
lila.                                                                  lIt.....d  4.4414.4. 341444141.4.44~._d  -It    -W pa L. .co.latc1.   .7  4.
044.4.4.                                                             TI 4.eoten.~~~~~~~~Wm   (44- 11.344    -4aa-) -TV 444100  In  4444140  a.
Icol. la.olc  -3*e. 744t444It.443.4e444)    144.1.4 ~f44-&4                    *r4c   4444141141   cIlI; .11144  40tt..44TV 4.414
o.0  133e....!o   a.':-.. ...    .  .  ce13-corl(43.. 1.                        .,.-,ecre   -f 3, .-t. ..n'1-f-  4 1 TV  "4    c  o4 -4
-:  -.r14   =...I7...  lt.11.4i.   l..sa  4411.)- locI.40.4
100444.1 .-nrl.l.                                               l'~.1i 31.4 41  4114 .40.411111444.14 na.s.14.a .             14an11S
4.3.45  4  4  eM     .7    441.1 E.w4943144.-  n.h 4444147.                                           IVA. 19 11.1111.
~4 4011  444c 4  4..43' 1o.tcct  4 4.c.a.~4l14- 1 .441   t.Ttl1 4 fore. (1ta3a .9 :. f- ecl 1, 4111.. pe -on                                        4c14ta .4.
W.y  s..l.o.rll    ct d""W4-.41.   rc.c..acl  1444-                                            pcelc30.  .13 ars.Cp-   L.43*114.  1, -.I.R1.   cnr. 
ndi..alce 4.4.4 1. 04  r.4..1. -4 2     ...a 414e13dall-f s.1 -ee.44                                             -     2V.a   .. (c- c -    perlA 4. .1  c.c.t Sr  factE..
ctllacy  44 Islth .ce1er4  ..14o.c.  14440119dM.ltc                                         ta.-.aer.ta.4   .*  Ite  .cc;194   97  4441-4
41 0..eal  c.c .t    %-.:     30a   3'E 441E4      dld.                                       aoa ft   e344143172   -tees    4-A1. -I.ec. .W4  4-.4*- 1.13j.4 ace   11
01R43911.          E_44 . 94   441 bo adI 4.1 W-cId 44 0140.                          143101 1.         3 4 -te44t -    -411. ..1.. .44 (nate    - rt1414304
0c.tlt.44I. 3   .- tnec131k4b    -WD 44104 l- t 4.3.-I                                         441414e..4I.tlpce  ccct.!  4".7.At44  cctl 3.1. 1.p4.L-
.3   ..Ihc.,   .a  54C.sclo  lb.  ttltd. 14434444y FAD 141  lIe                                le. 44341044   1 r.. ucl...  ao
dotIn   11444433 Ic .     _ L44. 1    ...4 ,,. dC-;111:    1 074' adL 3977W                                                                .dP~ 4  P               ,.
4*1..                                                                             10114t4 DW!911T3 0 149 -2 4--
01134f.ae  14)3.413 l E1e  4f t1310*943. I.9444433413  44   304443                                 -1.l1'141  (.44 aM  l  444 31344  Z- 1414 " by tic-c
lIe Oac,  -'.   n, 1 c9tdtcclii 414 44 c44e  114 451 44.1.11..4414141 141.'2l I4444.t44444120 p.14.4  ad   oerol 40444401-4
4.41e55* terlcv   044  34*. cal.. T.,:   97  44 s4  41.                              1.,ic.4*
Lit. 1p.e14144s1  atlI l.st.4 -   -lWI-431441fcl.1lb1.41-14                           1~ft,l  1-j1ci          1-444.4  4444.144.1041l-f' I.a
41 31Ir14; 191-4, 3p1', 4.WWL943 *4Z..W1114                                                   I t- 14 14 %4440  .1  ry44.1t4.  .t1e  4g1i 4-14    9        .-
444.. c  It  co.t ..4~~9ci  43.4114~  -tac, ob.. ad4.141                        moti.l41 ..1144-  pnee.11ic-a   149t.i4c   l.a
4   144 c4.4(1c...c.c4  ofe4114  44 1".t   .t     444441-  -.                                .14c4Oltlelvrt  e                   10.1 (15  441 S-.rlc V.- .11.4 44o
4cn1-.04 o-       e..t   .  14 --W  -Ltprcby nl-b   1.4-Ie  *4o       4                     1.   1-1*04h rc-144lios  evelIC  44-4111e4 -f J.r.c  74  a
SaIryc  13..4141444ciIcr  44414.pp.113.Ia.1-4.1  ..c   f  3  4lf.Ik-.34e                                                                    MYela    ..   1.rs



Sept. 28,1983
SENEGAL-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
PoPuIation1 5863 imid-3981,thou)-
GNP per capitat 430 US*(1981)
Amount
(mtill,UIS                                  Annkual growth rates(h) at constant price
at current-
prices)
1980         1977       1978       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       3984       3985       1990
NAT IONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product           3042       -1,3       -3Z9        lO,J       -1.5       -2.4        9.8        3,0        2,7        2.8        2.6
RARICULTURE                     548       -6,9      -23,6       27,1      -I8.3        -5,6       24.3        2.5        2,4        2.4        2,4
INDUSTRY                        796        5,t       -9.0       11,1      -15,8        4,7         8,8        4.1        3.9        3.8        3.8
OTHER                          167a       -3,7        9.3        3,3        13,l0      -3,7        5.3        2,7        2,2        2,2        2.2
CONSUMPTION                      3000         1,1       2,6         8,7       -1,4       -0,7        0.7        0,1        4.0        2,6         2.8
GROSS INVESTMENT                  522        3,2       -5,9         9,8      -16,1       14,5        6,0        5,6        3.2        2,4         1,4
EXPORTS OF GNFB                   785        6,a      -31,6        25,0      -27,2       -9,9       41,2        6,2       -1,2        3.Z         3,3
IMPORTS OF lNFPS                 1265       15,6      -55.9       16,8      -25,0         4,0        4.5       -0.1        2.9        3,0        s3,0
GROSS NATIONAL SAVINGS            -31         -       -76,6        -5,3         -       132,4         -        -7,9
PRICES
GDP DEFLATOR T  (979U*1 0)                             94        t1o         112        1Z3        134        147        163        la3         268
EXCHANGE RATE WS61-  I                     246        226        213        211         272        329        365
Share of GDP xt market pricesal)                                  Avorige Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                              (at constant prices)
1970       1975       1980       1985       1990                 1970-75   1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                     100.0      100.0       100,0      100,0      1000.                   2,4        2,0        3,6         2,6
AlGRICULTURE                              24,1       30,2       18,7       19,2        18,7                   2,2       -3,z        5,8         2,4
INDUStRY                                  21,5       24,0       26,2       25,t       26,9                    3.2       -0,2        5.1         3.8
OtHER                                     54,4       45,8       55,1       55,7        54,4                   2,1        5.2        2.2         2,2
CONSUMPTION                                 88,9       87,7        98,6       92,7       93,7                   1,7        4,/         1,4       2L,8
;ROSS INVESTMENT                            15,7        17,8       17,2       21,0       19,0 ,                   .9      -1,t        5,8         t,4
EXPORTS OF GNFS                             27.4       36,4       25,8        30.5       3t.5                   1,2       -3,8        8,4         .3 
IMPORTS OF ClNFS                            32,0       41,9       41,6       42.0       41,9                    3.8        0,9        Z,6         3 .0
PUBLIC FINANCE                              FY78       FY79       FY80        FY81       FY82       FY&3                                                                i
CURRENT REVENUE                           97,1      IZZ,6      13Z,9      125,5       151,9      175,3
CURRENT EXPENDITURE                       94.1      108.5      144,9      15t,3       165,5      189,9
CURRENT BALANCE                            3,0       14,1      -12,0      -25,8       -13,6      -14,4
CfAPITAL EXPENDITURE  a                    9,5       12,0       13,2       21,3         4,3       16,3
SURPLUS OR DEFICIT(-)                     -6,5        2,1      -25,2      -47,1      -17,9       -30.7
a, Central government onle,excludeu pirastatale,
b, Includingi 8,8 bill,CFAF for settlement of the Fitt, Plan operations,
I                                                              ~.4



-25-
SENEGAL- EXTERNAL IRADE                                           Sp.6  1983
Population: la6s (mfid-1981,thoua)
GNP per capita:l 430 U19 (1981)
Amount
INDICATOR                  (mill US$                                  Aninual growth rates (%) at constant prices
at   current                               - - --- -- - -- - -- - - -- - - -
prices)
1960        1977       1976      1979       1960       1961       10182      1983       1984       1965       1990
------------------------------------------------------------ --------
EXTERNAL TRADE
MERCHANDISE EXPORtTS              491       6.0      -47,1       37.2      -31.9      -12,6       50.2       £5.1       -2.a        3,0        3,1
PRIMARY                        329        0,5      -52,0       46.6      -31.9      -16.1       74.7       15,4       -3.4       3.1        3.2
PETROLEUJM                      87       87.5       41.6    *-42.5       -25,3       17,4'     -13.0       32,5        3.02       3.0        1.
OTHERS                          75       19.5      -61,0      J09.3      -36.2      -21.3       11,2       -0.7       2.7        2,7        2.7
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS              999        13,6i    -13,2       15.4      -25.7       -1,4        4.7        0.2        2.8        22,.9      :2,9
FOOD AND BEVERAtGES            216        7,6        s,6       13.3      -30.5       10.2        2.6       27,0       0,0        0.1        0,I
PIEYROLEUM                     275       12,8       13,7      -12,0       26,1      -10,0        3,6       -6.5        4,2       4.0        4.,0
MACHINARY AND EOUIPMENT        157       16.4       -2.8        3,6      -40,0       -0,3        6,6       -3.5       4.0        3,5        4,0
OTHERS                         357       14,5      -32.6       37.4      -28,9       -2,9        5.4       -7,8        3.5       4.0         1,7
PRICES
EXPORT PRICE INDEX(1979wiO00               98.8       95.3      100,0      184.3      146,5      134,7      137,6      157,7      182,.6    270,6
IMPORT PRICE tNDEX(1979u1600               89,3       901.9     100,0      129,0      154.0      166,9      179.8      194,9     214,3      310,6
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                      102,9      104,6      100,0       88.6       96,4       810,7      716,5      60,19     85,2        87,1
composIrION OF MERCHANDISE TRADE(14)             AVERAGE ANNUIAL INCREASEMK
(at current price)                         (at constant pr-tc*%)
19753    1980       1965       1990                19753-60   19a0-65   1985-90
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                       100,0      800,0      100,0      200,0                  -0,2       12,3        3,1
,PRIMARY                                 '70,5      67,0       75,7       76,7                   0.1       12,8        3_22
PETROLEVMI                                7,0       17,7       10.6       10,9                   6,8        7,4        3.0
OTHERS                                   22,5       25,3       23,7       12,4                  -1,2        1,5       2,7
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS                       100,0      100,0      100,0      100,0P                  2.2        1,9        2,9
FOOD AND BEVERAGES                       23,2       22,0       23,7       21,4                   2.3        6,5        0,1
PETROLEUM                                12.0       27.6       22,a       25,5                   7.1       -2.5        4,0
MACHIINARY AND EOIUIPNENil               la,4       15.7       87,1       86,9                  -3,9        2,9        4,0
OTHERS                                   46,4       35,7       36,4       36,2                  -3-.0       .a,        3.7
SHARE OP TRADE WItH                          SHARE OiF rRADE WITHi                       SHARE (IF TRADADE WITH               l
INDUISTRIAL COUNTRIESIK)                   DEVELOPING COUNIPICIa%I               OILl EXPOIRTING DEVEL.:'PIN.3 COUNTRIESIfl)  -j
DIRECTION OF TRADE a1975                              2980       9896                  1975       1960       2961                  2q753      1q8a       1961
EXPORTS                                    66,4       50.4       47,5                  2u,0       35,6       36.,3                             2,53        1
IMPORTS                                    67,1       60,6       66,4                  12,5       16.6       15.8                  4,1        18.2      It!,')
a, Euporlts f.o.b. and l1mporta,c,i,t(a(ource:2MF,SM/63,'179)



Sept.29, 1983
SENEGAL - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ,EXIERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBiT
--------------------------_---------------------__-------
(moillions US, at current prices)
ActuIal                                                                  Projected
Indicator                                 -_----------_-_____        _-                                                               -----
1977      1978       1979      1980       *981      *98Z*              1983       1984      1985       199k1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & NF8                        852       665        944        785       671        764                  760       769        9013     1561
of whichgMerchundive(f,o,bI                  667       402        627        491       43;        488                  517       519        6*9       1070
Itmports of goods & NFS                      1024       965        33S       1265      1190       1114                 1086      1093       1239      2s95
of whichsMerchzndise(f,o,b)                  773       744       1035        999       914        857                  533       az3        942      1578
Not factor income                             -55       -75        -96       -111      -103        -93                 -131      -142       -150      -185
Net transters                                  28         2A        33         38        31         30                   Ze        53         36        50
Current Account Balance                      -199       -347      -458       -553      -591       -413                 -427      -433       -450      -669
Private direct Investment                      36         43        71         86        70         55                   47        52         56        76
Off&,-ial Grant Aid                            79        93         72        134       12Z        10o                  104       113        124       169
Net IlT LoansIDRSU                             64        155       145        124       176        104                  182       216        204       254
Disburunent                                 1oo       224        224       245        228        197                  275       322        317       419
Repavments                                   36        69         78        121        52         93                   93       106         14        166
Other capital a                                11       -28         90         92        58         39                  -32       -76        -72       -47
Decrease in reserve.                            9        84         8a        117       165        *I5                  126       128        *38       217
Net foreign assetu(lncl,IMF)                  -55        171      -298       -413      -490       -526
-- -- - -- - -- -- - --  - -- -- - -- - --  -- - ----- _-   --- - - - -- - -------------------- - - --- - -- - -  - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- -
a Includes errors and omissions
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
GROSS DISBURSMENTS
OFFICIAL GRANTS                            79,4      92,6       72,4      133,5     122,2      100.3                103.6    1I1.4       124.2     169.4
CONCESSIONAL LOANS                         37,6      54,7       63.8      65,4      157,7      129.1                *86.8     t19.8      2*2.7     273.4
DAC                                      15.4      12,8       18.5       12.5      33,8      40,8                 43.2       51.4       60,3      80,2
OPEi:                                     2.2       0,0        6,7       0,8       55.6       25.1                 69.1      92,2       71.2      8:2.
IDA                                       7,7       9,7       I6,2     1I,1        47,5      21.0                 27,6       30,5      34.3       43.6
OTHER                                    12.3      32,2       22,4      40,0       20,8      42.2                  46.9      45,7       46,9      66.7
NON-CONCESSIONAfL LOANS                    62,2      169,4     *59,9      179,7      70,0       68,2                 85.3     302,0      104,7     145.9
OFFICIAL EXPORT CREDITS                   6,9      26.7       40.5      70.6       30.1      26,0                  11.0      36.1       33.6      44.8
IBRD                                     12.9       6,6       11.0      18.0       21,9       4,8                 27,8        9.9       1o.3      l8.1
OTHER MULTILATERAL                        0,2       6.6        1,8       I,b6      10,4        9.8                 28.3      25.0       25.6      38,5
PRIVATE                                  42,2      129.5     106,6      77,5        7,6       27,6                 21,2      31.0       35.2      44,5
EXTERNAL DEBT                               824.a    1177,6    1325,1    1634,2    t925,1    282-7                  2.384.9    2525.9    2737.4    4044,8
DEBT OUT9T, & DISBURSED                   424.6     609,3      792,1     926,2    1lo040    1206,2                 I388,4    1604.3    1808.0    2790.1
OFFICIAL                                241.7     345.4      459,3     60a.6      817,6     956,9               l115,7    1396,6    1605.1    2593,4 9p>
PRIVAlTE                                182.9     263.9      332,8     317,6      284,4     249,_                Z22,7      207,7      202.9     *967
UNOtSBURSED DEBT                          406,2     56a.3      533,0      708.0     823,1      976,5                996.5     921,6      929.4    1254:7      r 
DEBT SERVICE
TOTAL SERVICE PAYMENTS 1/                  5b,S      99,5      122,5      177,0      92.2      136.3                553,9     lss,s      *99,0     274.6
INTEREST                                20,8       30.5       44,1      56.2       40,3      45,1                 61,0       79,8      s5.5      *08,8
PAYMENT AS % OF EXPORTS                     6,6       15,0      13,0       22,5      *3,7       17.8                 205.      24,z       22.0      17,6
AVERAGE INTEREST RATE ON NEW LOANS                                                                                      4.7       4,9        5,7       6,5
AVERAGE MATURITY OF NEW LOANSIVEARRS         I,2       12,8      20,5       21,4      19,6       22.0                 24,0      21,3        20,2      16.;
AVERAGE GRACE PERIOD(YEARSI                                        5,7        6,2       s,3        6,0                  6.3       6,0        5,6       4.8
AVERAGE GRANT ELEMENTAI                                                                                                32,8e     28.1       23.9      21 ,0
___________________________------____________________________-__------_-----.-__._    ___-------_________.________-...---..-..--..----...-----------....------_-.___...-.-_____  ---...----__.__
1, Excludang IMF repurchames
4        r                                                                                  .  



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement oi Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount, (less cancellations) 2/
*     Loan/Credit                                                              (US$ million)
Number         Year    Borrower    Purpose                    Bank      IDA 3/ Undisbursed 41
Ten Loansl/ and seventeen Credits fully disbursed             50.78   108.7
530-SE         1975    Senegal      Education II                        15.0        2.20
633-SE         1976    Senegal      Eastern Senegal Livestock            4.2        0.14
1405-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Dakar Fishing Port         6.0                  0.54
1412-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism        8.0                  2.35
1413-SE        1977    "enegal      Petite Cote Tourism        5.6                  1.63
775-SE         1978    Senegal      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation             20.0        3.33
1518-SE        1978    RCFS         Railways III                        11.0        1.22
1665-SE        1979    Senegal      Second Airport             7.0                  2.18
--23-SE        1979    Senegal      Water Supply Eng. & T.A.             2.5        0.79
908-SE         1979    Senegal      Education III                      22.0        11.33
991-SE         1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations              11.0        7.87
993-SE         1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                      28.0        8.40
1810-SE        1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway            10.0                 10.00
S-26-SE        1980    Senegal      Power Eng. and T.A.                  3.3        1.88
1061-SE        1980    Senegal      T.h. for Planning                    5.3        2.73
1931-SE        1981    Senegal      Structural Adjustment    13.8                   0.11
1973-SE        1981    SOFISEDIT   Investment Promotion        6.5                  5.40
1136-SE        1981    Senegal      Investment Promotion                 2.5        1.60
2025-SE        1981    SEFICS       Rail Transport            19.3                 18.41
1103-SE        1981    Senegal      Forestry                             9.3        7.27
1176-SE        1982    Senegal      Agric. Research                     19.5       17.06
1310-SE        1983    Senegal      Rural Health                        15.0       13.88
1323-SE        1983    Senegal      Petroleum Exploration                9.5        8.37
1360-SE        1983    Senegal      Phos. Ind. Dev. Eng.5/               7-7        7.50
1398-SE        1983    Senegal      Second T.A./Parapublic              11.0       10.40
1406-SE        1983    Senegal      E.S. Rural Dev. 5/                  16.1       15.75
Total                                                    137.98   310.60      162.34
of which has been repaid                               15.67     2.56
Total now outstanding                                    122.31   308.04
IBRD    IDA
Amount sold                           3.43    0.10
of which has been repaid           3.24    0.03         0.19     0.07
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                        122.12   307.97
Total undisbursed                                         41.84   120.50      162.34
1/    A loan of USS3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled
on March 25, 1971.
2/    Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/    Computed at the rate of the approval date.
4/    Computed at the September 30, 1983, rate of SDR = 1.05684 US$.
5/I   Not yet effective.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal      Obligor             Type of Business        Loan    Investment      Total
1967     Socjiete Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant       2.45        1.01        3.46
d'Engrais du Senegal
1972)    9UD Senegal S. A.
1973)                           Vegetable Export         -         0.84         0.84
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT              Development
Pinance Company         -          0.24        0.24
1980     Banque de l'Habitat    Money and Capital
du Sen-egal, S.A.      Market                   -         0.47        0.47
1980     Societe HXteliere
du Barachois, S.A.     Tourism                 3.00        -          3.00
1982     Industries Chimiques
du Senegal             Fertilizer             25.00                   25.00
Total Gross Commitments                       30.45       2.56        33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                   2.45       1.89        4.34
Total Commitments now held by IFC             28.00       0.67        28.67
Undisbursed Balance                           24.00       0.00        24.00
_~~~~~emuf



- 33 -
ANNEX III
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 6 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Ministry of Planning assisted by
Consultants EPEVRY (France),
financed by a PPF advance.
(c) Date of first IDA mission
to consider the project:               February 1983
(d) Date of departure of
Appraisal Mission:                     July 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:   March 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:         July 1984
Section II: Special IDA Actions: IDA financing for the Project would
be divided between IDA and the
Special Fund administered by IDA.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:  Naming of members of Steering Committee
(para. 54), establishment of the Speeial
Account and Deposit Account (para. 63).
Conditions of Disbursement:   Agreement on technical standards prior to
start-up of two detailed land development
studies (para. 51 (e)).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
SENEGAL
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY TARGET DATES FOR PROJECT IKPLERENTATION
Actions                                   Completion Date
A. Actions unrelated to the studies
to be undertaken under the Project:
(1)  OHLM: - audit                                        September 30, 1984
- notification to the Association of
measures taken or to be taken to improve
recovery of monthly plot charges and
installments on housing construction
loans from sites and services allottees           September 30, 1984
(2)  Dakar:  notification to the Association of
measures taken or to be taken to
improve collection of municipal
revenues                                    September 30, 1984
B. Actions to be undertaken in the framework
of the Project:
(1)  Establishment of Traffic Bureau
(Part C (3) of the Project)                         September 30, 1984
(2)  Government decision on allocation of
responsibility between Government and
Dakar for delivery and maintenance of
Dakar infrastructure networks (Part C (1)
of the Project)                                      December 31, 1984
(3) Govem:ament decision on transport plan
(Part A (2) (iii) of the Project)                   December 31, 1984
(4) Study of possible amendment of BHS
statutes to permit loans to non-
salaried workers (Part B (1) of the Project)        December 31, 1984
(5) Government decision on detailed urban
development plan (Part A (2) (ii) of
the Project)                                        atrch 31, 1985
(6) Formulation of the recommendations
referred to in Part B (2) of the Project            June 30, 1985
(7) Government proposal to the Association
on FECL (Part C (1) (iv) of the Project)             June 30, 1985
(8) Creation of land development agency
(if feasibility study is favorable)
(Part B (4) of the Project)                         March 31, 1986



Detailed Cost Estieates
. ..... ....... ........
(as of Narch, 1945)
Coeaonents                                                               IfAF million                                    l* '000                             Zof
----------                                                     -------------- - ----------- -                 ------------- --.--                          forei
Lacal     Fordign       Total                 Local     Fornign        T4tol               Edch n
A. Urban investtnt planning and praqrueing
a. Advisory Srvicus and Training                                               29.6       145.0        173.7                   73          370         443
b. Kethadolaqical Study and Technical Assistance                               42.1       170.5        213.2                  109          435         544
c. Completion of thr Waster Plan for the Cap Vert Regin                       50.2        46.3        96.4                   1211         II          246
d. Coel,tlon of the Trrnsport Plan far the Cap Vert Region                     15.7        23.5         39.2                   40           t0         100
Subtotal A                                                      237.2       315.3       522.5                   350         "3          1333                74
3. Rousing and Urban Policy
...... ... .... ...._
a. Rousinq Finance                                                             29.1        77.6        107.4                   76          2"          274
b. Mangeent of 6overnent-omeed housing                                          7.1        16.0         21.1                   II           46          64
C. Rehibilitatimn of mIm                                                        9.1        25.5         35.3                   25           65          90
d. Lind bvnlopment Agency                                                      24.3        79.6        103.9                   82          203         245                                         w
e. Pilot Projects                                                              66.2       168.0        231.3                  169          421        5fl
Subtotal 1                                                      137.2       365.7       502.9                   350         933         1213                73
C. Municipal Policy
a. Municipal Finance and lechnical Assistance                                  50.1       201.1        291.1                  206          513         719
b. Maintenance and Spare Parts                                                 11.3       145.0        156.1                   30          370         400
c. Establishmnt of a Traffic hreau                                             53.7       226.2        2179.9                  37          577         714
d. First Year Traffic W&niqtn-ue   Pro.w; (Civil larks                         71.0       221.9        29.9                   19"          s6          765
t. Training                                                                     4.3         11.4        15.7                    It          24          40
Subtotal C                                                      226.5       005.6      1034.1                   563        2055         26                  78
Total  aste Costs                                              502.9       1556.6      2059.6                  1213        3971        5214                 76
FPysical ContIngencies (202 of base costs)                                        50.3        155.7       206.0                   120         397         525
Price Contingencies                                                               63.0        256.1       339.1                  212          659         P7
GRAND TOTAL                                                     636.2      2969.2      265. 4                  1623        507          6O
... ..     gu.. ...   ............. -         --
Kissim Estiates
Nunbens cay not add up esactly due to rounding.                                                                                                               hrct, 1914



- 36 -
ANNEX VI
SEWEGAL
URBAN MANAGEKENT AND REHABrLITATION TECUWICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AXOUNTS AND WETRODS OF PROCUERENET
(USS thousands)
Project Element                        Procurement Nethod                Total
Short-                    Quota-   Value of
list a! LCB    Other       tion    Contracts
A. Regmlar IDA Funds
Housing and Urban Policy            1.620     -        -        -       1.620
(1.550)    -       -        -      (1,550)
Municipal Policy                    1,210     -        -        60      1,270
(1,050)    -       -       (50)    (1,100)
Completion of the Xaster Plan         -       -      320 b/    -          320
-    (3001      -        (300)
Completion of the Transport Plan      -       -      120 b/    -          120
-       -     (1O0)      -        (100)
Subtotal A                  2,830     -      440       60      3,330
(2,600)    -     (400)     (50)    (3,050)
B. Special IDA Fund
Invest. Planning & Programming        680     -       -         -         680
(650)    -       -        -        (650)
Advisory Services and Training        -       -       440      125        565
-       -     (400)    (100)      (500)
Spare Parts and Equipment for         -       -       -        190        190
the City of Dakar                   -       -       -       (170)      (170)
Traffic Bureau                        900     -       -         -         q00
(840)    -       -        -        (840)
Traffic aranagement Program           -      985       -                  985
-     (790)     -        -        (790)
Subtotal B                  1,580    985     440      315      3,320
(1.490)  (790)   (400)    (270)    (2:950)
TOTAL CONTRACT VALUES          4,410    985     880      375       6,650
(4.090)  (790)   (800)    (320)    (6,000)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ International advertisement.
1/ Continuation of existing contracts.



- 37 -
ANNEX VII
SENEQAL
URBAN IUAJAGENEVT AND REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTMI&TED DISBURSMENTQ  SCREDULE a/
Disbursements      Cmmalative
Hach Quarter      Disbursements     % Cumulative
Quarter Eading             (US$ Tillion)     (USS Killion)     Disbursements
FY 85
FiWt Quarter                    0.45 b/           0.45                8
Second                          0.20              0.65               11
Third                           0.25              0.90               15
Fourth                          0.30              1.20               20
FY 86
First Quarter                   0.35              1.55               26
Second                          0.31              1.93               32
Third                           0.40              2.33               39
Fourth                          0.37              2.70               45
FY 87
irst Quarter                    0.40              3.10               52
Sec,nd                          0.40              3.50               58
Third                           0.35              3.85               64
Foulrth                         0.35              4.20               70
F 88
First Quarter                   0.30              4.50               75
Second                          0.30              4.80               80
Third                           0.30              5.10               85
Fourth                          0.30              5.40               90
F! 89
First Quarter                   0.30              5.70               95
Second                          0.30              6.00              100
a/ Assuning 12 mouth lag between expenditure and disbursement.
b/  Refinancing of PPF (US$450,000).
Source: Mission Forecasts
12/31/83



SENEGAL/SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT FOR URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABDILTATION/
CREDIT D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR IA GESTION ET LA REHABILITATION URBAINE
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
I9Q4                             1965                             11Q6              T               967
avUARIIR)RINIItRIE               ClUARtER/IRIMFIRf                CNUARIIR/IRIMEOIRE               QlUAR/IERIM STRIF
COMRONIENT/COMRCS1NTES                                                                                                                                      [
2          3       4        1       2       3.       4       I       213              4                2 t            4
A URM ItE5IMENI PUANNING A PROGRAMMING/
ROGrPAMMATION D6$ IINIE1ISSIMENIS
I ADVISORYSEICES/CONSEI,                            -m                                                     1_ -   -  * -  I -           1_ - _  - 1         1 _          -
2 ME1itOOOtOGCAL StlOV/EIUDF METODOLOGP_                                                                                           
3 ITECINICAL ASSISTANCE/ASSISTANCE ItCHINUE                                                   _       _
4 COMFTION Of DIE MASTER PAN FOR IIIE CAP VETRI
REGON/ACHEVIMENT DU PAN R RECIEULR DCU CAP VETRT
6 COa9UtION OF THE TRANSVOR rIN MrOR THE CAP VETI
R(EGIAC<HEMENl WUMOE  1I?ANSPVI UCAPVETRI_
O. HOUSING & URBAN FOLCY/POtITII EDU LOGIMENT
i HO9SNG FINAhCE/FINANCEMENI Pt LOGEMENI
2 MANAGtMENT OF GOVERNMEN1-OWNtW HUSING/
GESI RON DU PARC ADMNISTRATIF
3 RET?IH.DIATION o0 0111WRECRESSIMENt DE Lt0_ LM
4 LAND DE'ALOPTENT AGENCY/SOCIETE DE DEPALCOPEMENIENT
ET D'EQUIP MENT URAN (SEU)
5 PILOT PROJACIS/0F)ERATIONS PILOTES                                                                                   -        -
C. MUNICIPAl POIICY/POLITIQUE MUNICIPAILIE
I         MNCIPALOR GAlION/C ANlISATIONMLUNCIPAIE
2 IECHNICAt. ASSISIANCE/ASSIStANCE TECIHN1_A
3 MAINTENANCEJENTWEIIEN
4 ESTABUSMEN OF A TRAFf IC WEU/_
CREATION D   NE?EAU Of CIRCUATION                                                                                                                                     -
5 FkSSI Yr  IRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PTrOGRAM/
PXKGRAMME DAMELIORAIKON DE LA CRCLAIATION                                                                                                                                      -
6 ITFAJNING/FORMAlDON
Loowdi ___           EB   Llrco  tiUndo, AMsov SoAesw
I-
I-



,1,                             ,_                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~       ~       ~~~~~~M   A   U   R   I  T  A   N   I1-   A  AL atazsl7tbn  owI l,"" 
TECHNICAL AS81STANCE CREDIT FOR  |                                                           t                                                        rMutiAUIICI      l NIA
UREtAHN MANACtEMENT AND REHABILITATION         5    ?                                                >/>CL  
..... etapedotntael bsoi5/' t                   ;REG I   O   h N1-                                                                          1 t         Stgc,i 
-  ,W - h}mle"                                          ;-#4m  - - - - '-                                                                                 roi        
lUIOiizetats~~~~~~~~~~~~ /'  R E  CG  I  CO  N, '87g
A I I -I /I/ I/ C    ,                                           f   YoN\ 
RECION OF  o"  Qs° f     _R E C#l01;'t      O UG A                                                                                                       ;
CA -YT   \      r;      )DO:FE"              wztri                                                                                    fiffi
0~ ~                   ,JA  R ?G1   0 N      Fa      SI        -SAl 0U    s ~
t  ,o,*w,i,.sv  , ',^, ,r'$,            \                ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~R   E  GVIO N  °   F               3       M A L   1
; ; ;;;o jF ~' N;c oo                                                TOmbJcoundJ; 5;. E  'N    E  G   A    I  t
g w I < '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l J' l  (>:
'  G    A    M  Bf   \         .C                                   °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R I    N >'17-''A 
r"wrarr           |  ~~~~~~R!  E  ~G  I  0U.' N     0  F       ; Cg .A   S  A  M   A kJ N  C  E                     t°'°'r
00t.,~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ rf mm iwi VW IV  eq a
{    n;SZiguincSS'.'   ;'                                                                                          ° 
e^PsK"e*"en.,^_~ ~~~~~~ /   ^  UINEA            BISSJA5U                  Olr^t                               U  I  NW E\¢                     i} n.



17@25
SENEGAL
DAKAR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT FOR
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION
CAP VERT WESTERN REGION
CREDIT D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR LA
GESTION ET LA REHABILITATION URBAINE
REGION DE CAP VERT OCCIDENTAL
Camber&ne
-   gor Isla.d  -      -  fI
----- - Acen
/;<           M . /O A             \eARi
- '     ~' -                ' eW an  LI~ES
~~~~D4                                                      _    -   5  WCeR
, ~~~\ MAURITANIA-,-. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~ S E N SENEGAL     R_       -                                                 Gor6ee
i'CD V_t Xr           s                              L  
D*ICAR *SI, oo P                                       'MALI  DAAR
GUMEA   BISSAU E G______f 17 __5_



1BRD 172 3 3
1720                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1983
A~~~~~~~ .            . . .   . . . . .- -
-ow/aye. 
I - - -ne /          ThiooYe-mebeul_
,/~~~~~~~OE JRS INESr
[II] frStks and Services Aret s Gedit 336 SE)
>                          11  ~~~~~~~~~~~M E ZNPAIlCE-S ASSAINIES                          Rufisque  
Ulbon Areas
_  ZONEES UIN AlES
=  -     AdmIndustrial and Port
UITAMER IADUSTRAEL ETPORr
-_ Central Business District
r       Prks and Forests
*     I PARCS ET FOREJS
*Main Streets
R NRUES PRINCRPA TLES
, Railways
CHEMI{/ DE FER
-:-    Flood Area 
20:: -ZNE INOfVDABlLEI
---Rice Fields
-  Gare /s/lond.   RtZlERES
o 0                                  5       6
_ _Admiristrative Boundaries                    KILotAETERs
UJXrEFS ADMINISrRArlVES
InteLlrntoaEOSl rBo°u^ncriroes
FRNTERS NTrNAIME



