OFFICIAL        SPECIAL FUI  CREDIT NUMBER SF-13 SE
DOCUMENTS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                             , 1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-13 SE
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A4tq   -o                , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special
Fund established with funds contributed by certain members of the
International Development Association (hereinafter called the
Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA), there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000) (hereinafter called the IDA
Credit); and
(D) the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Fund referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(c) "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;
(d) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA;


﻿-3-
(e) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(f) "OHLM" means the Borrower's Office des Habitations a
Loyer Modgrg;
(g) "SICAP" means the Borrower's Societe Immobiliare du
Cap-Vert;
(h) "Steering Committee" means the committee specified in
Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(i) "EPEVRY"   means   Etablissement  public   d'Evry  ville
nouvelle;
(j) "SOTRAC" means the Societe des Transports en Commun du
Cap Vert;
(k) "SONEES" means Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des
Eaux du S&nfgal;
(1) "SENELEC" means Socifte S&n&galaise d'Exploitation de
1'Electricitf;
(m) "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(n) "Dakar" means the "Communaute urbaine de Dakar" and the
three "communes de la Rgion du Cap-Vert" as set forth in Law
No. 83-48 dated February 18, 1983 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the prin-
cipal amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual install-
ments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing
September 15, 1994 and ending March 15, 2034, each installment to
and including the installment payable on March 15, 2304 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of $uch principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate finan-
cial, administrative, engineering, economic planning and training
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) Without any limitation upon its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide
adequate support personnel and equipment, supplies and services
(including office facilities) to the specialists and consultants
employed under the Project; and (ii) appoint and ensure the
availability  of  qualified  Senegalese  professional  staff  as
required for training under Part C (4)(ii) of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ specialists and


﻿-6-
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator,
such specialists and consultants to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such special-
ists and consultants in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Adminis-
trator copies of the documents prepared by such specialists
and consultants for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and
estimates of costs, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
(d) For the purposes of evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the docu-
ments referred to in the previous paragraph, the Borrower shall
from time to time exchange views with the Administrator on said
recommendations and conclusions during the carrying out and upon
completion of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adquate torecord and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Administrator's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular
intervals all such information as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, the Administrator may publish a descrip-
tion thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator
of their respective obligations under the Special Fund Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special
Fund Credit.
Section 3.05. In order to ensure effective monitoring of the
progress of the Project and coordination among the ministries and
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) entrust responsibility for project coordination and
administration to its Ministry of Planning and Cooperation. A
Project Director, whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Administrator, shall be designated within said
Ministry to follow up progress on all Parts of the Project and to
carry out the administration of the Project, including, inter


﻿- 8 -
alia, administration of procurement, preparation of withdrawal
requests, and the preparation of six-monthly progress reports;
(b) appoint and ensure the availability of a Technical
Director whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable
to the Administrator. The Technical Director shall ensure that
the methodology, data base and technical standards prepared or
proposed by the implementing ministries and agencies are con-
sistent with the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c) designate a Steering Committee chaired by the Planning
Director of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation and composed
of representatives of the Secretariat for Decentralization, of
the Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Urbanism, Equipment,
Economy and Finance, Interior, and of SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELEC,
and Dakar. The Steering Committee shall review all studies and
reports prepared under the Project and shall formulate recom-
mendations on actions to be taken to accomplish the objectives
of the Project.
Section 3.06. All training programs under Part C (4)(ii) of
the Project shall be agreed upon in advance with the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Part C (3) of the Project and shall
furnish to the Administrator, upon its request, evidence satis-
factory to the Administrator that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
AR__CLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,


﻿-9-
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Credit shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii) the Credit shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator
that:
(i) such   suspension, cancellation,    termination  or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to paragraph (b) of that Section.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date kkXX"_"N (3 M3.-           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
economy and finance is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re de 1'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Charles Latnf
Dakar
Senegal


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                           3203 SG
Dakar
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dakar, the
Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By((
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of thte Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  690,000         80%
(2) Equipment,                   280,000         100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures and
and supplies                                80% of local
expenditures
(3) Specialists                1,470,000         100% of foreign
and Consultants                            expenditures and
for Parts A (1),                           80% of local ex-
A (2) (i), C (3)                            penditures
and C (4) (i)
of the Project
(4) Training (Part C             100,000         100%
(4) (ii) of the
Project)
(5) Unallocated                  260,000
TOTAL           2,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied


﻿- 13 -
from, any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II
member of IDA or (B) a Part I member of IDA which fulfills the
conditions set forth in paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund
Resolution on the date of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, as
determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower, provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country in the
territory of which goods are produced or from the territory of
which services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expendi-
tures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then allo-
cated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed
percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Administra-
tor may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Administrator
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 14-
6.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The long-term objective of the Project is to support im-
provements in the Borrower's economic performance by stimulating
public savings and by improving the operational efficiency of
public entities involved in urban management, maintenance and
shelter. In the shor.,-term, the objectives of the Project are:
(i) to improve the allocation of scarce public resources in urban
areas through better investment planning and programming; (ii) to
formulate a housing and urban policy based on an appropriate
allocation of resources; and (iii) to maintain, with a view to
ultimately improving, the existing level of urban services in
Dakar by improving its capacity to plan and program rehabilita-
tion and maintenance works and to mobilize resources.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Urban Investment Planning and Programming
(1) Steering Committee:
(i) preparatory and start-up activities of the Proj-
ect, including, inter alia, the selection of
specialists and consultants; and
(ii) technical monitoring during the execution of the
Project.
(2) Seventh Plan: Preparation of the urban sector investment
program of the Seventh Plan, including, inter alia:
(i) the carrying out of a methodological study to
define guidelines for appraisal and selection of
urban rehabilitation projects for inclusion in the
Seventh Plan, and to monitor physical and finan-
cial   implementation  of   urban   rehabilitation
projects;
(ii) completion of the Dakar/Cap-Vert detailed urban
development plan in order to program rehabilita-
tion works for serviced land to be included in the
Seventh Plan; and


﻿- 16 -
(iii) completion of the transport plan for the Cap-Vert
region in order to program investments for the
Seventh Plan.
Part B:   Housing and Urban Policy
(1) Housing Finance:
(i) affordability analysis (including calculation of
costs and prices of subsidized housing) and review
of existing mechanisms of resource mobilization
and of low cost housing finance; and
(ii) on the basis of such analysis and review, formu-
lation of recommendations aimed at improving
resource mobilization and use and at increasing
private sector participation in the financing of
low cost housing.
(2) Management of State-owned Properties: analysis of State-
owned properties and related charges and revenues and formulation
of recommendations on means to reduce subsidies and to increase
rent collection by parapublic housing companies and the central
government.
(3) Rehabilitation of OHLM: preparation of a rehabilitation
program for OHLM, and thereafter preparation of a contrat plan
consisting of diagnostic studies, detailed recommendations, and a
timetable for implementing the recommended actions, all aimed at
improving financial and managerial performance and at redirecting
OHLM's activities to lower standard, lower cost housing opera-
tions affordable by the bottom two-thirds of the urban popula-
tion.
(4) Land Development Agency: carrying out of a feasibility study
for the establishment of a parapublic enterprise for the servic-
ing of urban land with infrastructure for community facilities
and for residential, commercial, and industrial use, and focus-
ing, inter alia, on standards that would make serviced land
affordable to the bottom two-thirds of the urban population, on
financial arrangements, and on the obligations of other para-
public aid private entities engaged in infrastructure service and
delivery.


﻿- 17 -
(5) Design Alternatives for Land Development: carrying out of a
study on alternative designs for land development at different
service levels, including the formulation of recommendations on
standards and pricing policies designed to make serviced land
affordable to the bottom two-thirds of the urban population.
(6) Pilot Designs: on the basis of the recommendations developed
under Part B (5) of the Project, the carrying out of:
(1) a feasibility land development study for one or two
sites in Dakar; and
(2) detailed design and engineering of an infrastructure
rehabilitation plan for part of central Pikine, taking
into account the detailed urban development plan
referred to in Part A (2) (ii) above.
Part C:   Municipal Policy
(1) Municipal Organization and Management:
(i) review and analysis of relationships between the
Borrower's central government and Dakar, including
the allocation of authority, responsibility and
obligations with respect to delivery and main-
tenance of infrastructure services;
(ii) identification and implementation of actions to
improve financial management of Dakar;
(iii) identification of new financial resources, includ-
ing development and establishment of a fiscal
cadaster, and improvement of existing mechanisms
to recover land and related taxes in Dakar; and
(iv) analysis of the role and operating procedures    of
the Borrower's Fonds d' Equipement des Collec-
tivit&s Locales and formulation of recommendations
on its suitability as a financing instrument for
municipal works projects.
(2) Maintenance:
(i) identification of rehabilitation and maintenance
works and equipment required to rehabilitate and


﻿- 18 -
maintain existing levels of infrastructure ser-
vices in Dakar, and the formulation of recommen-
dations for alternative solutions for regular
maintenance of such services;
(ii) establishment of a system to plan and program the
maintenance and rehabilitation of Dakar's infra-
structure services equipment, including the pur-
chasing of equipment and spare parts; and
(iii) establishment of a cost accounting and annual
budgeting system for Dakar's Technical Department.
(3) Traffic Management: establishment of a traffic bureau within
the Directorate of Studies and Programming of the Ministry of
Equipment and carrying out by such traffic bureau of:
(i) preparation   of  a  priority  action  program  for
traffic management in Dakar designed to improve
circulation for pedestrians, buses and municipal
service vehicles and to improve access to and
conditions in central Pikine; and
(ii) implementation and monitoring of the first year
of said traffic management program, including the
surfacing of footpaths, paving of roads to simple
design standards to allow bus access, traffic
control   measures,   junction   improvements  and
provision of traffic signals.
(4) Training Program:
(i) identification   of  technical and administrative
staffing requirements for Dakar and establishment
of a priority training program; and
(ii) training   of   selected  staff  of Dakar   through
short-term traineeships, workshops and seminars.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Local Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, all goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Administrator.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph A.1
above:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall rea-
sonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 20 -
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
B.   Prudent Shopping
1.    Purchases of goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $20,000 each may be made on the basis of local shopping
after solicitation of at least three price quote-ions from
suppliers, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
2.   With respect to each purchase referred to in paragraph B.1
above, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the pur-
chase is made, inform the Administrator of the name of the sup-
plier from whom it intends to purchase and shall furnish the
Administrator, in sufficient time for its review, a summary
of the quotations received and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall,
if it determines that the purchase would be inconsistent with
economic and efficient procurement or with this Schedule, prompt-
ly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determina-
tion.
3.   The terms and conditions of the purchase shall not, without
the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which quotations were solicited.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
there  to the            day of          ,
198F
FOR SECRETARY


