7 FICIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1458 SE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    z, 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1458 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGRELAENT
AGREEMENT, dated          "   1                      , 1984,
between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (he eina ter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in
its capacity as Administrator of the Special Fund established
by its Executive Directors by Resolution No. IDA 82-6 adopted
on October 26, 1982 to assist in the financing of the same
Project by granting a special fund credit (hereinafter called
the Special Fund Credit) to the Borrower in an amount equivalent
to two million eight h-ndred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,800,000) and the Association as such Administrator is
willing to grant the Special Fund Credit to the Borrower on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit Agreement) of even date herewith;
and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿- 2 -
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "OHLM" means the Borrower's Office des Habitations A
Loyer Modfrg;
(b)  "SICAP" means the Borrower's Societ& Immobiliere du
Cap-Vert;
(c) "Steering Committee" means the committee specified in
Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)  "EPEVRY"  means   Etablissement   public  d'Evry  ville
nouvelle;
(e) "SOTRAC" means the Societe des Transports en Commun du
Cap-Vert;
(f)  "SONEES" means Soci&te Nationale d'Exploitation des
Eaux du S6n6gal;
(g)  "SENELEC" means Societe S6n6galaise d'Exploitation de
1 'Electricitg;
(h)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section      2.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(i)  "Deposit Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(j) "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 3, 1984 and
February 3, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(1) "Dakar" means the "Communaute urbaine de Dakar" and
the three "communes de la Rggion du Cap-Vert" as set forth in
Law No. 83-48 dated February 18, 1983 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit


﻿-3-
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provfDsions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in CFA Francs a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in ac(,ordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 ane September 15 commencing September 15, 1994, and
ending March 15, 2034, each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate finan-
cial, administrative, engineering, economic planning, and train-
ing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.


﻿-5-
(b) Without any limitation upon its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide
adequate support personnel and equipment, supplies and services
(including office facilities) to the specialists and consultants
employed under the Project; and (ii) appoint and ensure the
availability of qualified Senegalese professional staff as
required for training under Part C (4) (ii) of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ specialists and
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such specialists and consultants to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such special-
ists and consultants in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by such specialists and consul-
tants for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates
of costs, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(d) For the purposes of evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the docu-
ments referred to in the previous paragraph, the Borrower shall
from time to time exchange views with the Association on said
recommendations and conclusions during the carrying out and upon
completion of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
' Section 3.05. In order to ensure effective monitoring of the
progress of the Project and coordination among the ministries and


﻿-7-
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) entrust responsibility for project coordination and
administration to its Ministry of Planning and Cooperation. A
Project Director, whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Association, shall be designated within said
Ministry to follow up progress on all Parts of the Project and to
carry out the administration of the Project, including, inter
alia, administration of procurement, preparation of withdrawal
requests, management of the Deposit Account, and preparation of
six-monthly progress reports;
(b) appoint and ensure the availability of a Technical
Director, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable
to the Association. The Technical Director shall ensure that the
methodology, data base and technical standards prepared or pro-
posed by the implementing ministries and agencies are consistent
with the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
(c) designate a Steering Committee chaired by the Planning
Director of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation and composed
or representatives of the Secretariat for Decentralization, of
the Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Urbanism, Equipment,
Economy and Finance, Interior and of SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELEC,
and Dakar. The Steering Committee shall review all studies and
reports prepared under the Project and shall formulate recom-
mendations on actions to be taken to accomplish the objectives of
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and thereafter maintain in CFA Francs a deposit
account in its Treasury ("caisse d'avance" in the form of a
"compte de dep8t") in such amount and subject to such terms and
conditions as are agreed. upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part C (3) of the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, upon its request, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) above, including the Special Account and the
Deposit Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
Rfndent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement; or
(ii) the Special Fund Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:


﻿-9-
(i)  such  suspension,   cancellation,   termination  or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
ei-al Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower shall have provided the Association with
evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been
opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement and that
the Deposit Account has been opened pursuant to Section 3.06
of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have provided the Association with
evidence satisfactory to it with respect to the designation of
representatives to serve on the Steering Committee pursuant to
Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date /OrO theiu >C     f    /, 19g?Yis hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
economy and finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist4re de 1'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Charles Laind
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       3203 SG
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dakar, the
Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By (sf" /C      ctC/o,~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  (s"--t~c6             7, av    2c.&
'c ~     Regiona   Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Specialists                           )
and Consultants                      )
(a) for all Parts         1,080,000  )
of the Proj-                    )     100% of foreign
ect except A (1),               )     expenditures
A (2) (i), B (6),               )     and 80% of local
C (3) and C (4)                 )     expenditures
(b) for Part B (6)          660,000  )
of the Project                  )
(2) Equipment, materials          50,000        100% of foreign
and supplies                               expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Initial deposit              380,000       Amount due under
in Special                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Account                                    of this Agreement
(4) Refunding of                 430,000       Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  300,000
TOTAL                2,900,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the BorroWver or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) pay-
ments in respect of Category (1) (b) for Part B (6) of the
Project unless the Association shall have agreed to the recom-
mendations on the basis of which said Part is to be carried out.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocaEion of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficie,it to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,


﻿- 14 -
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The long-term objective of the Project is to support im-
provements in the Borrower's economic performance by stimulating
public savings and by improving the operational efficiency of
public entities involved in urban management, maintenance and
shelter. In the short-term, the objectives of the Project are:
(i) to improve the allocation of scarce public resources in urban
areas through better investment planning and programming; (ii) to
formulate a housing and urban policy based on an appropriate
allocation of resources; and (iii) to maintain, with a view to
ultimately improving, the existing level of urban services in
Dakar by improving its capacity to plan and program rehabilita-
tion and maintenance works and to mobilize resources.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Urban Investment Planning and Programming
(1) Steering Committee:
(i) preparatory and start-up activities of the Project
including, inter alia, the selection of special-
ists and consultants; and
(ii) technical monitoring during the execution of the
Project.
(2) Seventh Plan: Preparation of the urban sector investment
program of the Seventh Plan, including, inter alia:
(i) the carrying out of a methodological study to
define guidelines for appraisal and seleccion of
urban rehabilitation projects for inclusion in
the Seventh Plan, and to monitor physical and
financial implementation of urban rehabilitation
projects;
(ii) completion of the Dakar/Cap-Vert detailed urban
development plan in order to program rehabilita-
tion works for serviced land to be included in the
Seventh Plan; and


﻿- 16 -
(iii) completion of the transport plan for the Cap-Vert
regi,n in order to program investments for the
Seventh Plan.
Part B:   Housing and Urban Policy
(1) Housing Finance:
(i) affordability analysis (including calculation of
costs and prices of subsidized housing) and review
of existing mechanisms of resource mobilization
and of low cost housing finance; and
(ii) on the basis of such analysis and review, formu-
lation of recommendations aimed at improving
resource mobilization and use and at increasing
private sector participation in the financing of
low cost housing.
(2) Management of State-owned Properties: analysis of State-
owned properties and related charges and revenues and formulation
of recommendations on means to reduce subsidies and to increase
rent collection by parapublic housing companies and the central
government.
(3) Rehabilitation of OHLM: preparation of a rehabilitation
program for OHLM, and thereafter preparation of a contrat plan
consisting of diagnostic studies, detailed recommendations, and a
timetable for implementing the recommended actions, all aimed at
improving financial and managerial performance and at redirecting
OHLM's activities to lower standard, lower cost housing opera-
tions affordable by the bottom two-thirds of the urban popula-
tion.
(4) Land Development Agency: carrying out of a feasibility study
for the establishment of a parapublic enterprise for the servic-
ing of urban land with infrastructure for community facilities
and for residential, commercial, and industrial use, and focus-
ing, inter alia, on standards that would make serviced land
affordable to the bottom two-thirds of the urban population, on
financial arrangements, and on the obligations of other para-
public and private entities engaged in infrastructure service and
delivery.


﻿- 17 -
(5) Design Alternatives for Land Development: carrying out of a
study on alternative designs for land development at different
service levels, including the formulation of recommendations on
standards and pricing policies designed to make serviced land
affordable to the bottom two-thirds of the urban population.
(6) Pilot Designs: on the basis of the recommendations developed
under Part B (5) of the Project, the carrying out of:
(1) a feasibility land development study for one or two
sites in Dakar; and
(2) detailed design and engineering of an infrastructure
rehabilitation plan for part of central Pikine, taking
into account the detailed urban development plan
referred to in Part A (2) (ii) above.
Part C:   Municipal Policy
(1) Municipal Organization and Management:
(i) review and analysis of relationships between the
Borrower's central government and Dakar, including
the allocation of authority, responsibility and
obligations with respect to delivery and main-
tenance of infrastructure services;
(ii) identification and implementation of actions to
improve financial management of Dakar;
(iii) identification of new financial resources, includ-
ing development and establishment of a fiscal
cadaster, and improvement of existing mechanisms
to recover land and related taxes in Dakar; and
(iv) analysis of the role and operating procedures of
the Borrower's Fonds d' Equipement des Collec-
tivites Locales and formulation of recommendations
on its suitability as a financing instrument for
municipal works projects.
(2) Maintenance:
(i) identification of rehabilitation and maintenance
works and equipment required to rehabilitate and


﻿- 18 -
maintain existing levels of infrastructure ser-
vices in Dakar, and the formulation of recommen-
dations for alternative solutions for regular
maintenance of such services;
(ii) establishment of a system to plan and program the
maintenance and rehabilitation of Dakar's infra-
structure services equipment, including the pur-
chasing of equipment and spare parts; and
(iii) establishment of a cost accounting and annual
budgeting system for Dakar's Technical Department.
(3) Traffic Management: establishment of a traffic bureau within
the Directorate of Studies and Programming of the Ministry of
Equipment and carrying out by such traffic bureau of:
(i) preparation   of  a  priority  action program   for
traffic management in Dakar designed to improve
circulation f or pedestrians, buses and municipal
service vehicles and to improve access to and
conditions in central Pikine; and
(ii) implementation and monitoring of the first year
of said traffic management program, including the
surfacing of footpaths, paving of roads to simple
design standards to allow bus access, traffic
control   measures,   junction  improvements   and
provision of traffic signals.
(4) Training Program:
(i) identification   of  technical and   administrative
staffing requirements for Dakar and establishment
of a priority training program; and
(ii) training   of   selected  staff  of  Dakar  through
short-term traineeships, workshops and seminars.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Local Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, all goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph A.1
above:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and, conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 20 -
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
B.   Prudent Shopping
1.   Purchases of goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $20,000 each may be made on the basis of local shopping
after solicitation of at least three price quotations from
suppliers, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
2.   With respect to each purchase referred to in paragraph B.1
above, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the pur-
chase is made, inform the Association of the name of the supplier
from whom it intends to purchase and shall furnish the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a summary of the quota-
tions received ;nd such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the purchase would be inconsistent with economic and effi-
cient procurement or with this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.
3.   The terms and conditions of the purchase shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which quotations were solicited.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to b financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in C.F.A.
Francs equivalent to the amount allocated to Category 3 and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expen-
ditures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) and (2) and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 22 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of -the Credit allocated to Categories (1) and
(2) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any special commit-
ment entered into by the Associ tion pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial
deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) and (2) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 23 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of     YL
1984
FOR SECRETARY


