Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15680
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 2736-TIN)
Miay 31, 1996
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (DT)
1989               US$ = DT 0.95
1990               US$ = DT 0.88
1991               US$ = DT 0.92
1992               US$ = DT 0.88
1993               US$ = DT 1.00
1994               US$ = DT 1.01
1995               US$ = DT 0.95
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AFH          Land Development Agency
ARRU         Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency
ASM          Association for the Safeguard of Medina
BCT          Central Bank of Tunisia
BDET         Economic Development Bank
BH           Bank for Housing (replaced the CNEL after its restructuring)
CNEL         National Housing and Savings Fund
CPSCL        Local Communities Support Fund
FOPROLOS  Workers' Housing Fund
MOE          Ministry of Equipment
MOH          Ministry of Housing
MOINT        Ministry of Interior
MOPF         Ministry of Planning and Finance
MTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
ONAS         National Sewerage Authority
SNIT         National Real Estate Company
SONEDE       National Water Production and Distribution Company
SPROLS       Social Housing Company
STEG         Public Electricity and Gas Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPEMTN PROJECT
(LOAN 2736-TUN)
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ......................................  i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                                   1
A. INTRODUCTION .1
Housing Sector Situation .1
Bank's Role and Experience in the Sector.                                            2
B.     EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES   .3 
C. IMPLEMENTATIOIN EXPERIENCE.                                                              3
Upgrading of Substandard Settlements.                                                4
Sites and Services.                                                                  4
Subloans to the Beneficiaries.                                                       5
Technical Assistance.                                                                5
D.  FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT.                                           5
Delays in Implementation Schedule                         .5
Project Amendment.                                                                   6
Conditions for Provision of Subloans.                                                6
Financial Arrangements .7
Cost Recovery.                                                                       7
E. PROJECT RESULTS.                                                                         8
Physical Results.                                                                    8
Social and Poverty Alleviation Results.                                              9
Institutional Results.                                                               9
Project Costs and Disbursement.                                                      9
F.  SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT .10
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .11
dTs doctument has a restricted disuribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS (Continued)
H.       BANK PERFORMANCE    .....................................   11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .12
Project Design .12
Sector Development Objectives .12
Cost Recovery .13
Participation of the Population .14
Quality of the Built Environment .14
PART  H:  STATISTICAL  TABLES                           ...........................   15
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments   .............................   16
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits    ...........................   17
Table 3:    Project Timetable   ..................................  18
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ...                                  ....  19
Table 5:    Loan Disbursement :  Graph   ...........................  20
Table 6:    Loan Disbursement :  By Category   .......................  21
Table 7:    Project Costs    ....................................  22
Table 8:    Project Financing   ..................................  23
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants  ..............................  24
Table 10:  Execution Agencies' Audit and Reporting Compliance   ............  27
Table I1:  Bank Resources - Staff Imputs ...........................  28
Table 12:  Bank Resources - Missions  .............................  29
ANNEX:  BORROWER'S REPORT   ............................  30
I.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES    ........ .........                                 ....................   32
1.1  General Objectives  .......................................   32
1.2  Specific Objectives    ......................................   32
II.      RESULTS   ...........    .                  ....................................   33
2.1. Designing and Programming    ................................   34
2.2. Project Implementation   ....................................   35
2.3. Project Impact   .........................................   36
2.4. Factors Affecting Project Implementation    ........................  37
III.     EXPECTED  PROJECT PERFORMANCE    ..........................  38
IV.      CONCLUSIONS   ...........................................   38



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2736-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Fourth Urban Development Project (UDP) falls within the framework of a series of operations
that started with the Second UDP with the objective of assisting the Government of Tunisia (GOT) in
implementing its new housing sector policy. This policy was aimed, principally, at rationalizing
Government intervention in the delivery of housing and urban services. The project was approved by the
Board on July 3,1986, and declared effective on April 17, 1987. The total project cost was in the amount
of US$ 67.4 million, out of which US$ 30.2 million was financed by the Bank.
2.    The persistent housing backlog, despite the substantial efforts of the GOT over more than two
decades, had necessitated the adoption of a new approach to the housing situation. Supported by the
Bank, this approach was based on the principle of focusing public investments on lower-income groups
that had not been efficiently served under the prevailing policy.  It consisted mainly of (a) shifting
Government intervention from housing construction, which would be left to private initiative, to the
provision of infrastructure and serviced land, in order to remove the constraints to efficient urban growth
and to reach a larger portion of the population; and (b) strengthening the performance of the existing
institutional framework, while at the same time introducing cost recovery measures and reducing subsidies
in the delivery of housing services.
Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    The project was intended to: (a) improve shelter and urban services for low-income households;
(b) provide serviced land in urban areas affordable to low-income families; and (c) strengthen the capacity
of sector institutions responsible for upgrading, land development and provision of shelter, as well as
improve coordination amongst them. These overall objectives were designed to target, in particular, the
low-income population and enhance the capacity of the sector. They were in line with both the ongoing
Government sector policy aimed at redressing inequities in public housing intervention and rationalizing
public investment, and the Bank lending strategy for the sector in Tunisia. These objectives directly
translated into project components to become: (a) the upgrading of infrastructure and rehabilitation of
existing underserviced settlements,executed by ARRU; (b) the development of serviced lots for low-
income households, undertaken by AFH; and (c) technical assistance to improve AFH's capacity. During
project execution, an amendment introduced housing construction by real estate developers as part of the
land development component (para. 18 and 19).



- ii -
4.    The project achieved the first objective of providing shelter and urban services to low-income
population, both in its physical dimension and as a policy measure. The upgrading of substandard
set'iements was replicated through a national project due to the success it achieved in the Fourth UDP.
The second objective was, however, partially achieved. The quantitative target set for AFH was not
entirely met (para.27), and the development objective consisting of increasing the production of affordable
sei-viced lots, in order to reach a lairger portion of the population, was not implemented as initially
planned. Housing construction by the developers, which had absorbed a fair portion of the Loan amount,
-er!aced the production of serviced lots.  As a result, the importance of this policy objective was
minimized (para. 44).   Although the project institutional objective was focused on improving the
capacities of AFH, it favorably contributed to further enhance the capacities of all the agencies involved in
its BxeLution, and strengthen the coordination amongst them.
Implementation Experience
4.    The upgrading program has been satisfactorily implemented by ARRU, which proved its ability to
successfully undertake rehabilitation operations despite their complexity.  This program, initially
comprising eighteen sites, was extended to eight more sites identified by ARRU during project execution.
The execution of works on most sites was performed smoothly due to ARRU's efficient site management
methods. The land development component was faced with serious difficulties from the very start of
project execution. Although a list of sub-projects was established at appraisal, on the basis of which
target and cost estimates for this component were determined, AFH was unable to begin the works as
scheduled. Problems related to site preparation, such as complicated land issues, potential floodability of
some sites, difficult road access, and connection to the networks were experienced. This had, evidently,
caused delays and prevented AFH from delivering the number of serviced lots initially targeted. The
technical assistance that was destined mainly to strengthen AFH in different capacities related to land
development, in the form of training, expert services, and computerization had been reduced to the
purchase of computer equipment. The expertise was provided by the bilateral aid. The cost recovery
measures were not implemented, namely the establishement of the frontage tax by the municipalities, were
not implemented.
Factors Affecting the Implementation of the Project
5.    Two major factors have impacted the execution of the project and have generated some changes in
project design. The slow start of the project, mainly due to the problems encountered by AFH in selecting
development sites, resulted in slow disbursement. The Bank and the Borrower reacted to this situation by
introducing, on November 1988 and under the site and servicing component, developers to undertake
housing construction. A number of housing construction sub-projects by public and private developers
were identified by BH from its own mortgage loan portfolio to be financed under the project.
Immediately operational, this activity was able to absorb, in about two years, a substantial amount of the
Loan. It practically became a component by itself, and a major one. This has, however, substantially
changed the original setting of the project and some of its objectives (paras. 19, 29, and 44).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2736-TUN)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) describes the results of the
analysis of the Fourth Urban Development Project, from preparation to completion. The Loan, in
the amount of US$ 30.2 million equivalent, was approved by the Board on July 3, 1986 and
became effective on April 17, 1987.
The closing date of the Loan was extended by six months, from December 31,
1994 to June 30, 1995. The last disbursements were made on August 8, 1995 and reached 100
percent of the total Loan amount.
This ICR was prepared by Dalila Tadjerouni of the Private Sector Development,
Finance, and Infrastructure Division, Country Department of the Middle East and North Africa
Region and reviewed by Anir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, and Rene Costa, Project Advisor in
Country Department 1.
Preparation of the ICR is based on material in the project files, the supervision
reports throughout the life of the project, the progress reports prepared by the Borrower, and
interviews with task managers who supervised the project. A mission to Tunisia was conducted
to examine in the field the accomplishments of the project and discuss with the agencies involved
their own experience wilh the project. Visits to sites representative of each project component
were also made. A report on project implementation was received from the Borrower and has
been attached as an Annex.






- iii -
6.    The release of the subloans to the beneficiaries in connection with the upgrading and site servicing
components for housing improvement and construction was delayed due to constraining lending
conditions, both administratively and financially. In 1989, a ministerial memorandum relieved the
administrative constraint by simplifying the whole procedure to one single document and lowering the
interest rate applied from 7.5 to 5 percent. The financial constraint concerned the initial contribution that
the beneficiaries had to provide. Fixed at 30 percent of the total cost of the lot and 20 percent of the
construction cost, this contribution had proved difficult for the targeted low-income families to comply
with.  It was not, however, until 31 December 1994, the original closing date of the project, that an
amendment had brought this downpayment to 20 percent. The extension of the project closing date by six
months had made it possible to release the pending credit requests.
Project Results
7.    The project achieved remarkable physical results, particularly impressive for the upgrading
component which was extended to most governorates of the country through 26 rehabilitation sites, and
covered as much as 634 hectares. Community facilities were also provided as part of this program, as
well as 3,765 housing improvement loans. Not more than 2,262 of the 8,500 planned serviced lots were
delivered. In connection with these lots, 1,964 subloans were granted for self-help housing construction.
Real estate developers produced 3,196 units, half of which were delivered by the public operator, SNIT.
Through its original components; ie; upgrading and land development, the project was successful in
reaching the target population. It benefitted directly about 134,000 persons (close enough to the 150,000
planned at apparaisal). This was less evident with the housing construction component both in terms of
reaching the same target population and rationalizing the use of public financial resources (para.29).
Sustainability
8.    The replicability of project activities in their physical dimension is, by all means, possible and has
already been proven both by ARRU and AFH, although the latter has still to demonstrate its capacity to
develop lots for low-income buyers on a larger scale than it was possible in this project. The housing
construction component was brought into the project under special conditions, and it is therefore difficult
to assess the likelihood of its replicability (para.34). BH, a viable housing finance institution, has acquired
the capacity to provide for long-term financing in similar operations from its own resources. The question
remains whether BH would still be interested in continuing such efforts considering the low-profit
character of these operations.
9.    Most importantly, the poor performance on the cost recovery aspect, would seem to seriously
hamper the sustainability of this project.  Although it was estimated at appraisal that most project costs
would be recovered directly from the beneficiaries, this was not accomplished. Barely 23 percent of the
subloan reimbursments were collected by BH, while the municipalities did not implement the frontage tax
(taxe des riverains), the instrument through which the infrastructure cost was to be recovered.



- iv -
Lessons Learned
10.   One lesson learned from the Fourth UDP is that the experience gained from previous Bank
projects (Second and Third UDPs) was not used in an efficient and timely manner to benefit this project.
The weaknesses of the project discussed in this ICR are, for the most part, a repetition of the same
weaknesses experienced in the previous projects. The cost recovery issue remains the perfect example.
The findings of this ICR suggest that the project only partially achieved its development objectives. If it
has successfully contributed to demonstrate, at both the strategic and operational levels, the rational of
the rehabilitation policy, it did not, however, pursue with the same rigor the equally important objective of
land development for low-income families that was one of the cornerstones of the Government's housing
strategy (para. 44).  The experience of this project also suggests that active participation of the target
population is necessary for the success of urban operations and their sustainability. Moreover, considering
the physical dimension of such projects, more attention should be paid to the qualitative aspects of the
buildings and spaces created (para. 49).
Assessment of Project Outcome
11.   In its physical dimension, the outcome of the project was highly satisfactory for the upgrading
component, satisfactory for the housing construction by developers, and unsatisfactory for the land
development component. The project succeeded in reaching the targeted low-income population through
the upgrading and land development components. This was less evident in the case of the housing
construction by developers (para.29). Furthermore, the project did not meet one of its development
objectives (para. 4, page ii) and failed in the cost recovery, the most important element for sustainability.
The project overall outcome was, therefore, mnixed and, on balance, rated "unsatisfactory".



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2736-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Housing Sector Situation: Since its independence, through rigorous and continuous
efforts, Tunisia has succeeded in stimulating remarkable development in almost all sectors of its
economy. The housing and urban services sector, one of the most visible areas of government
intervention, has experienced an interesting and positive evolution over the last three decades.
Despite a sustained urban population growth' of 3.7 percent a year since 1975, Tunisia has been
able to considerably improve the general economic conditions of the urban poor, bringing the
percentage of the urban population living below the Bank-defined poverty treshold from 20
percent in 1975 to 10 percent only ten years later. The urban population accounted in 1986 for
about 54 percent of the total population, estimated at 7.6 million inhabitants.
2.    Throughout the successive Development Plans, the housing sector has benefitted from a
r-elatively important annual investment allocation, representing up to 15 percent of the national
budget, in response to the urban housing needs and the growing number of spontaneous
settlements generated by the rapid pace of urbanization. The government's prevailing housing
policy from the early 1970s to the mid 1980s, consisted mainly of the provision of public
housing, slum clearance, and subsidized housing schemes to rehouse displaced families.
Building activity intensified during this period and the housing stock increased at an average
annual rate of 4 percent reaching 1.3 million units in 1984.  Public operators such as SNIT
(Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie), AFH (Agence Fonciere de I'Habitat), and CNEL
(Caisse Nationale d'Epargne pour le Logement), with the respective functions of housing
construction, land development, and the mobilization of savings for housing, rapidly became
important agencies in the sector. Housing conditions improved during this same period, as well
as accessto3 basic utility services.
3.    Yet, all of these efforts could not keep up with the rate of urbanization, which quickly
outpaced the public sector's ability to provide, in an efficient and timely manner, the needed
' This high rate was a combination of a natural population growth of 2.6 percent a year, a massive influx of
immigrant workers, in particular during the period 1975-1980, and an intensive rural-urban migration.
2 The bank-defined poverty threshold was estimated in 1984 at about TD 80 per household per month for an
average of household size of 5.3 persons.
3 Rudimentary housing and one-room dwellings decreased respectively, from 13 to 9 percent and from 31 to 21
percent of all housing units. Electricity network coverage, water distribution, and household connections to
the sewer systems reached respectively, about 97, 80 and 55 percent of urban population.



2
urban infrastructure to accommodate the constantly rising demand. Instead, low-income
settlements continued to spread, in the form of unregulated urban growth patterns, in and
around the cities, thus, necessitating the post facto provision of infrastructure, usually at a
higher cost. The assessment of the sector in the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) highlighted
the persistent housing backlog. It also revealed that while the private sector provided 58 percent
of the financing for 75 percent of the total constructed units, public housing had accounted for
no more than 25 percent of the stock built since 1975, despite the substantive investments.
4.    Moreover, housing provided by the public operators was not accessible4 to the low to
medium-income population, and, actually benefitted, rather, the better off. It was, in fact, the
infonnal sector, which contributed more than half of the stock delivered by the private sector,
that could accommodate the urban poor. This, however, has taken place in areas mostly lacking
adequate utility services and community infrastructure, often relying on self-help, informal
savings, low-cost construction methods and also in violation of the urban regulations. This trend
was already acknowledged in the Sixth Development Plan, since it was found that housing
construction by both the public and formal private sectors would fall well short of the projected
demand.
5.    Bank's Role and Experience in the Sector: It was at this stage, that the Bank became
involved in the specific area of housing in Tunisia. The partnership in the urban sector at large
started earlier, in 1966, through six water supply projects, two sanitation projects, and the First
Urban Project, which addressed the transport area. At the policy level, a housing sector study,
in 1982, was conducted jointly by the Ministry of Housing and the Bank. It raised concern that
housing was, already taking a big share of total public investment and that in light of the
budgetary constraints, there was a need to focus this investment on the lower-income groups.
6.    The Study recommendations, adopted by both the Bank and the Government, suggested
a new approach, focusing on four main aspects: (a) the necessity for Government intervention
to move away from housing construction, which would be left to private initiative, towards the
provision of infrastructure and serviced land in order to remove the constraint to efficient urban
growth; (b) the provision of urban services in squatter settlements and other spontaneous growth
areas; (c) strengthening the perforrnance of housing sector institutions in policy making,
provision of financing, and implementation of upgrading and land development projects; and
(d) the introduction of cost recovery measures and non-subsidized prices in the delivery of
housing services.
7.    These recommendations became the pillars of the Bank's urban lending strategy in
Tunisia.  The Second Urban Development Project had already laid the foundation by
introducing rational policies of upgrading existing squatter settlements instead of demolishing
them, developing low-cost site and service programs, and recovering costs from beneficiaries.
The Third Urban Development Project, launched in 1983, addressed mainly these issues, and
included upgrading in four settlements in Greater Tunis and the North West area of Tunisia;
sites and services in three of them; as well as a pilot program of upgrading and rehabilitation
and renewal in the Medina of Tunis.
4 See the Project Completion Report of the Third Urban Project by the same author.



3
B. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The Fourth Urban Development Project was intended to: (a) improve shelter and urban
services for low-income households; (b) provide serviced land in urban areas affordable to low-
income families; and (c) strengthen the capacity of sector institutions responsible for upgrading,
land development, and provision of shelter, and improve coordination amongst them. These
overall objectives were designed to target, in particular, the low-income population and enhance
the capacity of the sector. This was in line with the ongoing Government strategy aimed at
redressing inequities in public housing intervention by further addressing the segment of the
Tunisian population that could neither afford the type of housing produced by the public sector
nor obtain access to the existing housing finance channels.
9.    Through its first objective, the project addressed the policy of both the Bank and the
Government regarding spontaneous and substandard settlements. Tunisia, in the Second and
Third Urban Development Projects, had set up, with Bank assistance, a challenging program
aimed at upgrading the existing informal and slum settlements. To continue this effort, the
Fourth UDP proposed a substantive upgrading program of selected sites. In line with the
Bank's urban lending strategy in Tunisia, the project's second objective addressed an important
constraint that the sector was facing: the lack of reasonably priced land for housing. To this
end, it sought the development of serviced lots with the provision of the needed accompanying
infrastructure and community facilities.
10.   Although not spelled out in the statement of objectives, the Fourth UDP also addressed
the issue of housing finance by providing funding to beneficiaries for both the acquisition of
serviced lot and construction.  The third objective was meant to support the Tunisian
Government's efforts to strengthen the institutional framework of the sector that had just been
consolidated under the authority of one single ministry5, the Ministry of Equipment and
Housing created in august 1984, just two months before the project was appraised. The project
was also designed to improve the technical, organizational, managerial, and operational
capacities of the agencies in charge of implementing the project, through the provision of
equipment, training, and consultant services.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
11.   The project objectives were directly translated into the three project components: (1)
rehabilitation and upgrading infrastructure in existing underserviced settlements by ARRU6; (2)
development of serviced lots for low-income households by AFH7; and (3) technical assistance.
5 The building and housing related activities used to be split between various ministries and the responsibilities
were rather diluted.
6 ARRU was created in 1981, before the Third UDP in which it played a major role in its implementation and
was instrumental in setting up the national policy for upgrading the low-income settlements and the old
traditional quarters.
6 Created in 1973, AFH is a public organization, operating under private law, authorized to assemble and
service land.



4
During execution, the project was amended to introduce a fourth component (para. 19),
consisting of housing construction by real estate developers. Two lines of credit were to
finance the first two components with, respectively, about US$ 18.5 million and US$ 11.1
million. The remaining amount of the Loan was to finance the TA component. The Loan
structure was reorganized later, after the amendment.
12.   Upgrading of Substandard Settlements: This component concerned the improvement of
the living conditions of the low-income groups inhabiting substandard and squatter settlements
through the provision of the lacking infrastructure networks, consisting mainly of: primary and
secondary roads, water distribution, construction of sewer system, stonn water drainage and
electricity. It also included land acquisition, compensation or rehousing of households affected
by demolition, regularization of ownership and occupancy status, and construction of
community facilities where needed. ARRU was the implementing and coordinating agency for
this component, acting on behalf of the municipalities. Eighteen sites were originally identified
and appraised. Early in the execution of the project (1989), ARRU was able not only to launch
the works on all selected sites but also to identify new sites, bringing the total of project
intervention to twenty-six operations.
13.   The upgrading program has been satisfactorily implemented by ARRU, which proved
its ability to successfully undertake upgrading operations despite their complexity, such as land
status and ownership, the precarious state of the buildings, the multiplicity of intervening
agencies, and the cumbersome financial mechanisms used. Most importantly, the inhabited
character of these settlements not only makes it difficult to proceed with the civil works but
often implies the need to resettle the occupants. ARRU, in this project, succeeded in avoiding
demolitions and therefore rehousing. The restructuring of these settlements enhanced the
market value of the buildings and the land, making the inhabitants reluctant to sell any vacant
land or infill plots, in view of the potential profit that could be derived from holding onto it.
This, coupled with other factors (dispersement of the sites and the vacant land within the sites)
had made it not worthwhile for ARRU to develop infill plots as was originally planned.
Furthermore, ARRU extended its experience to a specific operation in one of the core areas of
Tunis, "la Petite Sicile", a decayed residential quarter that was falling in ruin, endangering the
lives of its inhabitants and necessitating immediate attention8. This intervention was successfully
designed and implemented as an integrated operation that comprised upgrading, rehabilitation,
site servicing, and rehousing of the affected population. It allowed ARRU to capitalize on the
different aspects of its experience. This constituted the perfect example of what urban
rehabilitation programs in the city centres should be about and how they should be
implemented.
14.   Sites and Services:  AFH was responsible for implementing this component, which
consisted of developing and subdividing land into plots for housing, sized between 80 and 160
sqm; providing the needed infrastructure, and developing serviced land for community
facilities. Based on eligibility criteria9 agreed with the Bank, AFH selected twenty sites for a
8 Despite the important character of such an operation, the Bank did not, however, finance it under the project,
except for the rehousing of 54 families amongst the most endangered of the quarter's population.
9 These criteria include the availability of nearby and existing infrastructure, site accessibility, growth
potential, income of beneficiaries, cost, and expected demand for the serviced sites.



5
total estimated cost of US$ 26.8 million. Due to difficulties encountered at the beginning of
project execution (para. 17), the accomplishments for this component were much less than
expected. Out of the 8,500 lots originally estimated to be delivered, only 2,262 have been
completed. This drop in target was due not so much to AFH's incapacity to deliver as to the
design and preparation of the project. Indeed, the difficulties that AFH faced were related to
the preparation of the sub-projects. A list of sub-projects'° was retained and made part of
project appraisal and documentation, but as soon as execution started most of these sites
presented access problems,  difficulties regarding connection to the networks, potential
flooding, and complicated land issues. The technical documentation (feasibility or other type of
studies) on which appraisal estimates were made were incomplete but were accepted in view of
their completion later. This, evidently, caused delays in the launching of the works and later
led to the introduction of a new element in this component (para. 18).
15.   Subloans to the Beneficiaries: Long term financing in the total amount of US$ 10,5
million was to be made available by CNEL to the project beneficiaries in connection with the
upgrading and site servicing components for land acquisition, construction of housing units and
upgrading of existing housing in the squatter settlements. Difficulties in granting the subloans
by CNEL/BH11 (paras. 20-22) generated delays in delivering this product to the beneficiaries
and caused marketing problems for AFH in selling the developed lots.
16.   Technical Assistance: Mainly directed to AFH to train its staff in areas related to land
management, accounting, computerization, administration and institutional aspects, the
technical assistance component comprised 2.75 years of experts and computer hardware
acquisition for both AFH and CPSCL 2, for a total allocation of US$ 0.45 million out of the
proceeds of the loan.  This component was later reduced to the purchase of computer
equipment. The expertise was cancelled due to the fact that bilateral aid agencies were offering
the same services.
D. FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
17.   Delays in Implementation Schedule: The project benefitted from a long preparation and
took more than four years to materialize. It was approved in July 1986 and the Loan became
effective only on April 17, 1987 (Table 3). The project activities did not start immediately,
however. The most significant delays encountered concerned the sites and services component
executed by AFH. The latter, for more than a year after the project became effective, could
not identify enough sites to produce the number of lots initially estimated during appraisal. The
housing credit component also experienced delays, since it was directly tied to the sites and
servicing component13.  This early slippage was not completely recovered during the
10 Both the SAR and the Loan document provided a list of sites which formed the basis for estimating the
number of lots to be delivered as well as all the related costs.
" CNEL is an autonomous, public savings and loan agency, created in 1974 with the role of mobilizing
domestic savings for housing construction. Since then it has become the main finance institution, accounting
for about 30% of institutionally-financed housing investment and has evolved into a housing bank, BH.
12 Established in 1975, it is a financial institution empowered to borrow from local and international sources
and lend to the local public administrative bodies for the financing of public facilities.
1 The housing construction loan is issued when the lot is made available to the beneficiary by AFH.



6
implementation period, and had caused the closing date, originally set for December 31, 1994
to be extended to June 30, 1995, while most other activities of the project were completed long
ago.
18.   Project Amendment: The slow start in project activities resulted in a slow disbursement,
which extended over a period of more than a year, after the Loan became effective. This had
caused concern for both the Bank and the Borrower due to the similar situation experienced
with the Third UDP and the risk that this would impact the negotiations of the Fifth UDP, then
under preparation. It was in this context, that the idea of financing housing construction
undertaken by public and private developers was introduced and accepted by both parties. It
materialized in an amendment of the Loan in July 1988 and which became effective in
November 1988. BH, quickly identified a number of housing operations, already awaiting
financing and amongst which many were already under construction.
19.   Although this new "component", in view of the already identified housing construction
operations, was expected to absorb a fair amount of the Loan, this was not reflected in the
amendment. It was, instead, brought under the category of the Loan that was destined to
finance the subloans tied to the site servicing component. This category, which had, originally,
been allocated the amount of US$ 2,9 million, remained unchanged in the amendment. The
housing developers, under this amendment, were to produce low-cost housing on lots developed
either by themselves or by AFH. This change had affected AFH since it, automatically,
minmized its role in the project. It was not clear, however, whether AFH was still expected to
produce the same number of plots as originally expected'4. This new element, as it was sought,
had positively impacted the project in terms of consumption of the Loan since only few months
after the amendment, disbursement increased by over US$ 2 million and the substantial amount
of US$ 11 million was committed. This was done, however, at the expense of the other
components: it had substantially reduced the part of the Loan allocated to AFH for site
servicing, and the amount of the Loan for upgrading decreased despite the satisfactory level of
commitment shown for this component.
20.   Conditions for Provision of Subloans: Through a line of credit managed by BH,
financing was made available under this project for land purchase, housing construction and/or
improvement, and housing acquisition from real estate developers. In the first years of project
execution, this component was faced with some difficulties due to the lending conditions, which
caused significant delays in the release of these subloans to beneficiaries many of whom were in
need of immediate assistance.
21.   In connection with the upgrading component, subloans were granted for the
improvement or extension of houses located in the areas undergoing upgrading. The procedure
for acquiring these subloans was somewhat cumbersome in terms of the administrative and legal
documentation that the beneficiaries had to produce for guarantee purposes; and the lending
conditions constraining. Considering the complexity of the legal situation concerning land
'4The amendment did not specify a reduction in the expected number of lots to be produced by AFH. The
initial figure of 8500 lots was reconducted in the amendment. However, the dollar amount allocated to
Category 1B representing the civil works of the site servicing component was reduced in december 1988 (BTO
Report) from 7,6 to 1,6 million; then went up to 3.5 in 1989.



7
issues that usually characterize the type of settlement involved in the project as well as the social
background of the population concerned, it has proven rather difficult for the beneficiaries to
comply with these conditions.   As a result, more than three years after the project was
launched and despite the fact that the civil works were in progress in most of ARRU's
upgrading sites, very few loans were granted. The Minister of Equipment, therefore, issued a
memorandum in october 1989, which simplified the whole procedure and also authorized a
decrease in the interest rate applied, from 7,5 to 5 percent. The positive effects of this policy,
coupled with the decentalization of the subloans management to several towns of the country,
made them more accessible and speeded up their approval.
22.   Similarly, the slow commercialization of the serviced lots developed by AFH was
partly15 due to the initial contribution that the beneficiaries had to provide in order to get the
subloan for plot acquisition. This contribution fixed at 30 percent16 of the total cost of the plot
and 20 percent of the cost of the construction, represented a sizable amount of money for most
of the targeted low-income households. It was only at the end of the implementation period
that remedial action was taken. An amendment to the loan was made, in December 1994, to
reduce the beneficiary down payment to 20 percent. With the extension of the closing date by
another six-month period, this had helped process the awaiting requests.
23.   Financial Arrangements:  As in the previous project,  the funds for financing the
upgrading component were channelled through CPSCL. To obtain a loan, the municipalities
were to enter into agreement with CPSCL for each subproject to define the cost and conditions
for lending of each sub-project. Although this was a safe way to administer public investment,
this proved a lengthy process and caused delays in payments to contractors and the executing
agency, ARRU, which, often had to bear the cost of such delays.  Indeed, pursuing good
management practice in its development sites, ARRU, had often remedied to the situation by
making advance payments to the contractors to avoid delays that could increase costs.
Reimbursement by the municipalities in such cases, took a long time due to the way the funds
were channelled.  Another important factor related to the arrangements for lending to the
municipalities. The authorization"7 for the municipality to borrow from the Government for the
upgrading subprojects was tied to its capacity of debt reimbursement. Thus, the budgetary
allowance for these subprojects was set within the framework of the municipality's residual
financing capacity. This had impacted the upgrading program for certain municipalities, which
had to be either reduced or only partially implemented.
24.   Cost Recovery:  It was estimated that 80 percent of total project costs would be
recovered directly from  the beneficiaries.  This would include the recovery of on-site
infrastructure costs; the costs of land acquisition and land servicing; and the subloans for
housing purchase, construction and improvement. The remaining 20 percent, funded through
5 It was also due to the site locations and the lack of market studies prior to final site selection.
16 The SAR suggests that this 30% contribution should be made in three payments. One third would be paid at
the time of reservation of the plot and two thirds in installments during site servicing works. In practice, this
contribution was requested from the beneficiaries as one single payment.
17 A decree must be promulgated authorizing the municipality to borrow from CPSCL for each subproject.



8
budgetary allocations 8 would be recovered under the central taxation system. Repayment of
subloans made to the beneficiaries was the responsibility of BH, and the recovery of
infrastructure cost was the responsibility of the municipalities through the frontage tax. Yet, at
the end of the implementation period, June 1995, very little was recovered.
25.   The Housing Bank, BH, collected no more than 23 percent of the subloans repayments.
A sizable part of these repayments was attributed to the beneficiaries who had purchased a
housing unit from the developers. This category of beneficiaries, represented a relatively higher
income level than the rest of the project population, due to the higher cost of the unit produced
by the developers (para.29). The frontage tax for the recovery of the secondary infrastructure
was not established and therefore no repayment was made.  The only portion of the
infrastructure works that was recovered directly was the one tied to the cost of the utility
connections. The utility companies ONAS, SONEDE and STEG, having the possibility of
recovering the costs incurred through their tariffs.
E. PROJECT RESULTS
26.   Physical Results: The project has attained its physical objectives for almost all its
components. In the case of the upgrading program, the total number of operations was brought
to 26 in 25 municipalities, thus extending the intervention of the project to most governorates of
the country in a comprehensive national program. This extension of the program was made
possible due to the efficiency of ARRU's implementation methods. The quantitative results of
this component are, therefore, impressive since ARRU was able to produce more with actually
less dollars than initially estimated.  The total recipient area of the infrastructure works
undertaken under this component alone has reached 634 hectares.  In addition to the
improvement/extension of the infrastructure networks, the project has provided the concerned
population with community facilities (8 health centers, 10 schools, and a market) and with
3,765 loans for the improvement of their dwellings. Furthermore, savings made by ARRU
have allowed the municipalities and their communities to benefit further by acquiring
equipments for solid waste collection.   The whole upgrading component did cost 23,100
million TD, ie about US$ 25.5 million (exclusive of management fees) as against US$ 40
million initially estimated.
27.   The project target figure of 8500 serviced lots was not met, owing to the difficulties
encountered by AFH at the beginning of project execution.  A total of thirteen sites were
developed by AFH in different areas of the country, servicing 2,262 lots. Most of these lots
have been allocated to their beneficiaries and BH has granted 1,964 subloans for their purchase.
Housing construction by the real estate developers has achieved substantial results rapidly.
Eighteen sub-projects for a total of 3,196 social housing units, scattered throughout the
country, were financed from the proceeds of the Loan. Half of these sub-projects were
entrusted to the public operator SNIT, which delivered 1570 units. The rest was built by the
private sector. This component has significantly19 enhanced the disbursement of the Loan. The
introduction of the developers was also beneficial to the project and the sector as whole since it
"8This part of the project cost covered construction and land for community facilities, off-site infrastructure.
'9 It used existing sub-projects from BH mortgage loan portfolio.



9
succeeded, despite the low-profit attached with such operations, in attracting some private
entrepreneurs into an area traditionally dominated by the public sector.
28.   Social and Poverty Alleviation Results: The project benefitted directly some 134,000
persons, most of whom, through the upgrading program. Indeed, the benefits of this program
alone were extended directly to more than 107,000 inhabitants by improving their immediate
living environment, providing them with decent housing conditions at affordable cost. Often
those benefits were extended to communities at large, where the upgrading sites are located,
through the provision of off-site infrastructure, community facilities, and enhanced overall
environment. The site and servicing component could not reach the 60,000 persons originally
estimated. Instead, about 2,000 families acquired a lot and a loan to build a house and nearly
3,200 others purchased a housing unit from the developers.
29.   The project was successful in targeting the low-income population in both the upgrading
and site servicing components. This was, however, less evident for the Developers component.
The cost per housing unit delivered by the developers exceeded largely 20 the cost of a unit
produced through the site servicing process.  It was, therefore, not accessible to the same
income level population. Furthermore, the beneficiaries of this component, obtained financing
to purchase their house with better lending conditions (FOPROLOS) than the remaining low-
income population of the project. As a result, this has not proved to be the best use of
Government financial resources.
30.   Institutional Results: The project institutional goals focused on the strengthening of
executing agencies' capacities, and in particular, AFH. In this context, it has favorably
impacted the institutions and agencies involved in its execution.  ARRU  has further
consolidated the remarkable expenence it gained with the previous project and has shown its
capacity to handle complex projects at the technical, financial, organizational, and managerial
levels. AFH's restructuring, under its current management team, resulted in the creation of a
specialized department for the sites and services for the low-income population.  The
computerization of its various services has helped to greatly enhance the quality of its work,
both with the client and on the grounds.  BH, which during the implementation period had
been restructured into a housing bank,2' evolved into a viable housing finance institution. The
project has also helped strengthen the relationships and the coordination among all these
agencies.
31.   Project Costs and Disbursement: The project was estimated to cost a total of US$ 67.4
million, out of which US$30.2 million was to be financed by the Bank. The counterpart
financing was estimated to break down into: US$ 24.2 million from the Government, US$ 6
million from BH, and US$ 7 millions from AFH. The changes that have occurred during
implementation caused the allocations of the amount of the Loan to change along with the
respective counterpart funds. Specifically, the amount allocated to AFH for site servicing was
reduced from US$ 7.6 to US$ 3.5 million due to the introduction of the Developers. AFH's
20 In fact, this component alone did cost, out of the proceeds of the Loan,(Iet alone counterpart financing)
almost as much as the cost of the two other components combined.
21 That was done in the context of the 5th Urban project which one of its major objective was to turn CNEL
from a saving oriented institution into a housing bank.



10
own contribution was about US$ 3 million. ARRU also had its share of the Loan proceeds
reduced, from US$14.55 million to US$ 11.60 million. The reallocation benefitted the category
of the Loan under which the developers were brought into the project. Supervision documents
show that the first reallocation, shortly after the amendment, brought this category (category 4
in Schedule 1 of the Loan document) from US$ 2.9 million to US$ 11.0 million, and then to
US$13.0 million. The last change brought it down to US$ 12.5 million (1989). At the closing
of the project, this category disbursed US$ 14.2 million.. As a whole, the project did disburse
the full amount of the Loan.
F. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
32.   Despite the positive physical results achieved, the overall sustainability of the Fourth
UDP is rather mixed. If ARRU, through the upgrading program, has largely proven its ability
to replicate such operations this is less true for other components and aspects of the project.
One area that has made the sustainability of the project questionable is the cost recovery, in
which the project has poorly performed.
33.   ARRU, has immediately been able to demonstrate its capacity to apply the experience
gained into other operations. Indeed, In 1992, and in parallel to its activities in the project,
ARRU became involved in the PNRQP ( Progranme National de Rehabilitation des Quartiers
Populaires) and led the implementation of this sizable rehabilitation program at the national
level. This program, covering a large number of substandard settlements throughout the
country, was conducted under the authority of the Ministry of Interior, and was entirely
financed by the Government.
34.   In regard to the housing construction component, and despite its rapid execution, the
likelihood of its replicability is rather difficult to assess. It should be noted, though, that: first,
the cost recovery rate in this component was as low as in the other components; and second, the
real estate developers were not brought into the project within a prepared framework2 that
would have ensured continuity and sustainability, but rather as a way to compensate for AFH
lagging behind the expected results. Furthermore, this component had benefitted from special
conditions that are unlikely to be replicated under normal circumstances.
35.   The Housing Bank, has now evolved into a viable housing finance institution. It has
developed the capacities to replicate the role it has played in the Fourth UDP in providing long-
term housing finance to the low-income groups, even from its own resources. However, the
question remains whether BH would still be interested in continuing this effort in view of the
low-profit character of these operations, and the lack of incentives23. It must be noted that BH
has not been effective in recycling the funds generated from the project into similar operations.
22This was not done in the context of a preconceived and organized program meant to promote the
participation of the private developers into this area of low-cost housing.ln fact, half of sub-projects were from
the public operator SNIT.
23 BH was not adequately remunerated for its management of such operations (3 percent for its management
fees and I percent for loan recovery). This certainly impacted the rate of cost recovery.



I1
The slow rate of cost recovery constituting, certainly, an impediment to this and to the
sustainability of the project, as a whole.
G. BORROWER 'S PERFORMANCE
36.   ARRU's performance was more than satisfactory. It showed throughout the different
phases of the project cycle the same commitment to rigorously undertake the various tasks
under its responsibility in an efficient and timely manner. During the course of this project,
ARRU further enhanced the technical and managerial skills of its staff as well as the quality of
the services rendered by its various departments, in part by setting up of a Management
Information System. In assisting the municipalities in their urban planning and management
functions, and coordinating among different institutions, ARRU demonstrated its capacity to
provide guidance and technical assistance. As a result of this valuable experience, ARRU has
been propelled to the forefront of the profession, and has become a leading institution in the
conception and management of upgrading and rehabilitation programs.
37.   From the start of project implementation, AFH was faced with serious difficulties in
selecting suitable sites. This hampered its ability to quickly produce the expected number of
serviced lots, of which less than one fourth were delivered.  Nevertheless, AFH's developed
sites are characterized by a qualitative intervention. The infrastructure works are well executed,
and the site surroundings immensely improved (extension of the roads, sewerage, water
supply).   AFH has also improved, during the course of this project, its managerial,
organizational and technical capacities. It has also been able to change its prevailing mode of
operation and land selling policies by establishing a pricing system that allows selling the land at
its replacement cost and at prices compatible with market conditions. This was coupled with
cross-subsidization in favor of smaller lots destined for low-income families. The entire system
has worked effectively and had allowed AFH to successfully target the low-income population
and therefore serve the objectives of this project.
38.   The Housing Bank, BH, played a major role in the management of the Loan by
bringing in the developers in order to make the best use of the funds available. However, some
deficiencies occurred, namely, the double financing of the developers component, singled out
by the auditors. BH prefinanced the housing construction undertaken by the developers from the
proceeds of the Loan and also financed the acquisition by the beneficiaries of the housing units
produced from FOPROLOS 24. This mistake, that occurred during the transition from CNEL
to BH, had to be corrected. However, the Ministry of Finance, although informed by BH
early enough, did not take immediate steps to remedy the situation.  At the eve of project
closing, it was decided that BH did not have to reimburse the Government and that the funds
should be recycled into other social housing operations.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   Overall, the Bank contributed satisfactorily for the implementation of this project and
maintained close contact with the Borrower throughout the life of the project. Frequent and
24 FOPROLOS, is a social fund for the promotion of housing for public workers.



12
rigorous supervison in the field ensured that the tasks and responsabilities of each agency were
being complied with as expected and on schedule. The Bank was responsive to the Borrower's
needs and provided continuous and timely guidance. The Bank was also able to adapt quickly
to the practical situation of project execution by showing flexibility and effecting meaningful
changes whenever needed.
40.   During the preparation phase of the project, the Bank's performance was, however, less
than satisfactory. Although this part of the project cycle took a relatively long time, it did not
effectively benefit every component of the project. This was particularly the case of the site and
servicing component. The Bank based it estimates of this component on non-conclusive
feasibility (or other) studies. It was also stated in the SAR that all the land on which AFH
was going to intervene had been already acquired and that subdivision plans had been
completed and approved, which would ensure inimediate start of the works. In reality AFH,
long after project start, was not ready to launch the works (paras. 14 and 17). This reveals that
the Bank, in the preparation phase, had come up with unrealistic objectives aDd targets for this
important component of the project. In the same process, AFH's capacity to deliver was
overestimated. Furthermore, the Bank did not take advantage of the postponement of the date of
effectiveness (Table 3) to require the Borrower to complete the preparatory work and possibly
avoid the problems and delays encountered.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Project Design: In its original design, the Fourth UDP was, to a great extent,25 a mere
repetition of its predecessor.  In this respect, it was meant to continue the efforts the
Government engaged in the Third UDP.  The repetitive character of this project should,
though, have created the opportunity to better conceive the different aspects of the project and
to focus, in particular, on those elements, such as the cost recovery, that had achieved poor
results in the previous projects. This was not done. It must be noted that the Fourth UDP was
prepared when the Third UDP was approved. A similar situation occurred between the Second
and the Third UDP. A link, thus, has to be made between project design and project
sequencing.
42.   Indeed, one issue worth considering in some depth is the sequencing of Bank's
operations and projects. In this regard, the observation that could be derived from the case of
these three successive urban projects is that there was not enough time between the Second,
Third, and Fourth UDPs to have learned from the experience of one project and incorporate
remedial measures into the design of the other. The result was a series of projects that carried
on the same successes, fortunately, but also the same weaknesses. Such weaknesses, properly
addressed could have been avoided should enough time had been allowed between the launching
of a project and the preparation of the next one.
43.   Sector Development Objectives: The Fourth UDP had set development objectives that
were compatible with the sector strategy (chapter B). Two pillars of this strategy had directly
concerned this project (and its predecessors). One, was the shift of Government effort and
25 Except for the rehabilitation of the old quarter of Hafsia in the Medina of Tunis, which was a success story
in the 3rd UDP and was not replicated in the current project.



13
resources from housing construction, which would be left to private initiative, to the provision
of infrastructure. The other, consisted in the strengthening of the sector institutional framework
(para. 6 and 7). They materialized in the project through the upgrading of the existing
substandard settlements and land development to guide future urbanization. The success of the
upgrading program extended beyond the project scope. At the policy level, it proved that
rehabilitating these substandard settlements is the right approach. The impressive physical
results achieved have won the approach to be applied countrywide.   As a result, the
contribution of the project to the achievement of the sector development objectives in this area
is certain.
44.    As far as site servicing is concerned, achievement of development objectives are less
evident, both in this project and in the previous ones. The Fourth UDP, in its original design
was to strengthen AFH's institutional capacity to fully assume the important role it was assigned
in the implementation of the sector strategy, by increasing its production capacity and
reorienting its efforts towards the low-income population. However, by bringing into the
26
project the housing developers,  this particular objective faded away.  The diligence with
which the developers were able to absorb the loan had quickly blurred the role AFH was to
play in this project. Hence, serviced lots were replaced by the construction of finished housing
units using Government resources, in contradiction to the sector strategy (para.43) to move
away from this trend in order to reach a larger population.
45.    Cost Recovery: Cost recovery  would have been a strong instrument in support of the
Government policy aiming at reducing public investment and subsidies and introducing
participatory mechanisms. This was one of the objectives of the project, and although it was
stated in the SAR and other project documents that almost all costs incurred would be
recovered, the reality was somewhat different and proved SAR estimates to be unrealistic. At
best, only 23 percent27 of the amount allocated to the subloans for acquisition of serviced lots,
housing construction, and housing improvement was actually reimbursed at the closing of the
project. This ratio is much lower when compared to the total project cost.
46.    Most important, is the recovery of the secondary infrastructure cost, financed by the
local government. The Frontage Tax or "Taxe des Riverains" was the instrument for the
infrastructure cost reimbursement. It was to be instituted by the municipalities, necessitating the
promulgation of decrees. This did not take place for a number of reasons, the most important
being: (i) political sensitivity on the part of the municipalities which were reluctant to impose
taxes on their communities; (ii) lack of implementation and monitoring measures to follow up
on this particular issue, both at the project level and in the concerned institutions; and (iii) lack
of awareness amongst the population concerned.
26 Although, this was advantageous in other aspects as already mentioned.
"7This figure does not express the real recovery rate since it is inclusive of the subloans made to the
beneficiaries for the purchase of the housing units produced by the Developers and which was financed from
FROPOLOS. This was additional resources injected in the project by mistake (explained in para 36). The rate
exclusive of this amount, would represent less than 4 percent of total cost of the project.



14
47.    Although both parties lacked commitment regarding the execution of this aspect, it was
the role of the Bank to ensure that such an important objective was pursued. This effort should
have started at project inception to ensure that the ingredients for success were incorporated
into the design, considering the failure of the cost recovery in the two previous projects. To
this effect, the lessons that could have been derived from the past experience are two fold: (a)
the municipalities have a leading role to play in the issue of cost recovery and as such their
active participation in the design and implementation process of this important aspect of the
project was necessary; and (b) in view of the fact that the frontage tax formula did not work in
the previous projects, other instruments and mechanisms better adapted to the situation should
have been proposed.
48.    Participation of the Population:   The involvement of the target population in a
participatory process, is essential for the sustainability of urban operations, especially when
dealing with their direct living environment. In addition to the issues discussed above, the
following four major aspects important to the success and replicability of urban projects are
directly related to the involvement of the beneficiary population: (a) sharing part of the
financial burden with the Government in the current context of shrinking public resources; (b)
improving the design of the different project elements to better fit the needs of the population
concerned; (c) realistically assessing the affordability of services offered for the target groups
and their willingness and capacity to pay, which in this project proved not very accurate2; and
(d) creating the feeling of ownership which will give the inhabitants control of their
environment once the project is completed and help sustain project benefits. In recent years,
the promotion of local associations that has taken place in Tunisia, would make the direct
participation of the population a most feasible enterprise.
49.    Quality of the Built Environment: Because the project was focused mainly on physical
implementation, in the form of infrastructure and building production, the qualitative aspects
were, therefore, important. However, little attention was paid to them as they were often
neglected to the benefit of the quantitative aspect. Yet, little more efforts would have sufficed
to capitalize on the important investments already made and further enhance their value. These
efforts would be required at two levels: upstream, at the inception of the sub-projects to ensure
their harmonious integration in their environment and urban fabric; and downstream, during
the self-construction and housing upgrading process to ensure that the architectural quality of
the spaces and building produced is acceptable. This could be achieved through technical
assistance that could be provided by local services at a negligible cost. And yet, the positive
visual impact this would generate in the perception of the physical patrimony of our towns and
cities, would further beautify the outcomes of this project.
28 The estimates made at appraisal regarding this aspect were not realistic since not only the cost are not being
recovered but also the subloans conditions were not accessible to most beneficiaries and an amendment had to
be made (para 21).



15
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Report
(Loan 2736-TUN)
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5    Loan Disbursement: Graph
Table 6:   Disbursement by Category
Table 7:   Project Costs
Table 8:   Project Financing
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Execution Agencies Audit and Reporting Compliance
Table 11:  Bank Resources - Staff Imputs
Table 12:  Bank Resources - Missions



16
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Obiective     Substantial      Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                      2              g                             [HI
Sector policies                     0]            I3              0
Financial objectives                LII            E] 0x                          0
Institutional development           0I            lx              0I             L0
Physical objective                 [HI             f0             0 
Poverty reduction                  [2              n              0               0
Gender issue                        FI             LI             0               3
Other social objectives                           IIF]                           lx
Environmental objectives           El              LI             [              [
Public sector management                           LI             I]             lxi
Development of private sector       LI            Ix              L              El
Creation of Employment             El              L]             LI             LI
B. Project sustainabilitv              Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
OI                 0                  lx]
C. Bank performance           Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                        0                       lx                        L]
Preparation                           []                       []                      lX]
Appraisal                             [j 0XI
Supervision                                                   []                        Fl]
D. Borrower performance             Highly                 Satisfactorv              Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                            ]                       x
Implementation                         ]                       x                        0
Covenant Compliance                   El                      El                        0
E: Assessment of Outcome         Highly         Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory         Highly
satisfactory                                          Unsatisfactory
LI                                  lx                  LI



17
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan (name)
Loan n°                                   Purpose                   Year of               Status
Original loan amount                                                     approval
Preceding operations
First Urban Development Projet  Essentially, an urban transport project with the        Closed in 1982.
objectives of: establishing a regional planning            Contributed to the preparation of
context (Distict de Tunis), renewal and                   the 3rd Urban Project in
expansion of the public transport fleet, including,        creating the District of Tunis.
the railway lines of TGM and the improvement
of traffic conditions in the center of Tunis.
Loan 1705-TUN          Introduced a new approach to the prevailing     May 22,   Closed 12/31/85
Second Urban Development   policies in the housing sector and urban           1979     The first Bank interventionn in
Project           services for the low income population through              the housing domain in Tunisia
US$19 M of which 4 M was   upgrading and site and services programs.                   and a milestrone of a series of
canceled and I M was                                                                urban projects.
umdisbursed.
Loan 2223-TLN          Same objectives as previous project with an     Dec. 21,   Closed on 06/30/93.
Third Urban Development    enlargement of the scale. Introduced renovation   1992     Continued the efforts of the
Project           and rehabilitation as pilot project in the Medina           former project and contributed
US$25 M             of Tunis.                                                 to the creation of ARRU, and
the promotion of rehabili-tation
of old quarters.
Subsequent Operations
Loan 3064-TlJN         Strengthening the housing production capacity   May 18,   On-going.
Fifth Urban Development    for low income population by supporting the       1989     Closing date scheduled after
Project US$58 M        newly created housing bank.                                two extensions on 12/31/96.
Loan 3507-TUN         Development of the local authorities capacities   July 2,    On-going.
Municipal Development Project  (municipal and regional) in the implementation  1992     The project concentrates on the
US$ 75 M            of urban programs.                                         institutional weaknesses,
especially at the local level.



18
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned              Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            November 1982
Preparation                                                           January 1983 to Oct. 1984
Appraisal                                                             Oct. 1984 & April 1985
Negotiations                                April 24, 1985 then January  June 2, 1986
13, 1986
Board presentation                          June 19, 1985             July 3, 1986
Signig                                                                July 18, 1986
Effectiveness                               September 30, 1986        April 17, 1987
Closing of Loan                             December31, 1994          June30, 1995



19
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACUTAL
(In Milliorns of USS)
FY87  FY88  FY89   FY90    FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94               FY95
Appraisal Estimate         0.30   2.03     6.14    10.97    16.40    21.53    25.45   28.21      30.20
in %                       0.99   6.72   20.33    36.32    54.30    71.29    84.27   93.41     100.00
Actual                     0.00   0.90   12.28    18.59    23.71    24.26    25.90   26.05       30.20
in %                       0.00   3.00   40.70    61.60    78.50    80.30    85.70   86.20      100.00
Actual as % of estimate _   0.00   44     200      169      145      113     102      92        100
Date of final disbursement       l               l                                              08/08/95



0              U              0              Ut
F8               8              8              8              8              8              8              8
c$   0.,.-H
CD   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
rn
...                           ........ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
. .. ... . ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~



21
Implenlentation Cofli9PefOn Report
Reubi of Tunisia
Fourth  ranDelOpment Pfo`t
(Loan 23~L
LO>DISBXp,SE,IIENT
TA1LF,  LOAI'NS~UMW  C T~
It
I I RehSIl peSe
V.   TCCWAOfSl           f



22
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 7: PROJECT COSTS
(In Millions of US$)
COMPONENTS                    COST ESTIMATES AT    ACTUAL COSTS
APPRAISAL
Local      Foreign   Total      Local     Foreign   Total
1. Urgrading
Civil Works                      14.45      11.39    25.84        9.49.    11.31      20.80
Sub loans for I**                2.43        2.91      5.34       1.88      2.11       3.70
Total*                          21.46       18.18    39.64       11.07     13.42      24.49
2. Rehousing                          0.18       0.18      0.36       0.18       0.20       0.38
3. Site Servicing
Civil Works                      10.02       6.05     16.07       1.12      2.28       3.40
Subloans for HC***               2.36        2.88      5.24      2.00       1.20       3.20
Total*                           15.58      11.21     26.79       3.12      3.48       6.60
4. Housing Developers                NA         NA        NA         25.16      13.00      38.16
5. Technical Assistance
Expert Services                   0.00       0.38      0.38       0.00      0.00       0.00
Computer Equip.                  0.00        0.07      0.07      0.00       0.08       0.08
Total                             0.00       0.45      0.45       0.00      0.08       0.08
6. PROJECT TOTAL                     37.22      30.19     67.41      39.50     30.20       69.70
*    Includes contingencies
** Housing Improvement
*   Housing Construction
NA: This component was introduced later



23
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCING
(In Millions of US$)
AT APPRAISAL                      ACTUAL
Bank                                       30.2                           30.2
Government                                 24.2                           11.25
AFH                                        7.0                             3.12
BH                                         6.0                           25.16*
* BH financed the acquisition of the housing units produced by the developers from FOPROLOS,
funded by the Government. Therefore, the part of Government financing in the project is US$
36.5 million.



Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section     Covenant   Present                   Description of Covenant                                  Comments
type       status
Loan Agreemen1
2.06         9            C           AFH shall furnish to the Bank not later than six weeks  A quarterly report is sent.
after the end of each semester a semi-annual progress
report.
4.01         1            SOON        AFH shall furnish to the Bank audit report            1992 audit report received. 1993 report
for each fiscal year by June 30 each year.           received. 1994 and 1995 not yet received.
2.07         9            C           ARRU to submit to the Bank not later than six weeks after  A quarterly report is sent.
the end of each semester a serni-annual progress report.                                               X,
4.01         1            SOON        ARRU to furnish to the Bank audit report for each fiscal    Audit report for 1993 received.
year by June 30 each year.
2.02 (b)     10           C           Special Account in the Central Bank.                  Complied with.
2.02 (c)     10           NC          Closing date is December 31, 1994.                    Extended to June 1995.
3.02 (a)     2            C           Borrower makes available to CPSCL under a Subsidiary    Done March 1987.
L.A. $7,520,000 out of the proceeds of the loan.



Section    Covenant   Present |                 Description of Covenant                                Comments
type       status  l                                                    l
Loan Agreement
3.02 (b)     2           C           Borrower makes available to CNEL (BH) under a       Done March 1987 for AFH. Amendment to
subsidiary L.A. $14,530,000 out of the proceeds of the  include developers prepared by BH in July
loan.                                               1988 was signed by the Borrower.
3.02 (c)     2           C           Borrower makes available to ARRU, ONAS, SONEDE      Done with ARRU and BH (for AFH). ONAS,
and STEG and AFG an aggregate amount of $8,150,000.   SONEDE and STEG are not directly involved.
3.03 (b)     3           C           CPSCL enters into a "Convention de Pret"with the    Done since august 24, 1987 for 17
Municipalities in which site is eligible under part A of the  municipalities and then for 8 othe
Project.                                            municipalities.
Project Agreement
3.05         2           NC          Borrower takes measures for the establishment by    ARRU has prepared documents. Not enacted
Municipalities of a "Contribution des Riverains"to recover  by the municipalities.
cost of on site infrastructure.
3.07         2           C           Borrower shall cause AFH to take measures to establish a   Done.
plot system and to ensure cross-subsidization.
3.08         2           CP          Borrower causes CNFL (BH) to lend to beneficiaries of    Done march 1987. The introduction of
new plots an aggregate amount of $6,6580,000 for    Developers has decreased the amount needed
housing construction.                               for this subcomponent.
3.09         10          C           ARRU, AFH, CNEL (BH), Municipalities and            Done.
Developers respectively to participate in the selection of
Beneficiaries.



Section        Covenant    Present                          Description of Covenant                                            Comments
______   type  status                                                                   |
3.10             10             C             ARRU to continue to employ an urban planner and an               Done (paid by Italian bilateral grants).
engineer.
3.11             3              C             Conversion of AFH's debt to the Borrower into equity             Done in 1987.
according to a plan of conversion.
3.12             10             C             Procurement of goods and works for ARRU and AFH, and    Done.
employment of consultants by AFH according to L.A. and
Project Agreement.
3.14             1              C             CNEL (BR) and Developers funish to the Bank financial,    Done.
economic and engineering feasibility studies.
4.01             3              C             The Borrower shall have project accounts including Special   1992 accounts audited and received. 1993
Account, for each fiscal year audited, and furnish report to    report received. 1994 and 1995 reports
the Bank before June 30 each year.                              expected soon.
4.02             1               C            CNEL/BH accounts for each fiscal year audited and furnish   Reviewed in Urban V Project.
to the Bank before June 30 each year.
Amendment    3                   C            "Convention de Retrocession" between Ministry of Finance   Ministry of Finance signed Convention end of
and BH amended to introduce subloans to developers.             December 1994.
Covenant types:                                                                                                        Present Status:
I Accounts/audits                                        8. Indigenous people                                        C      = Covenant complied with
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  9. Monitoring, review, and reporting                    CD    = Complied with after delay
3 Flow and utilization of Project Funds                  10. Implementation                                          CP        Not complied with partially
4 Counterpart funding                                    11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC  Not complied with
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agengy  12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/Institutional action  SOON = Compliance expected in a reasonably short time
6. Environmental covenants                               13. Other                                                   NYP  = Not yet due
7. Involuntary resettlement



Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 10: EXECUTION AGENCIES'AUDIT AND
REPORTING COMPLIANCE
1987          1988          1989           1990          1991           1992          1993           1994          1995
FS  PR  PA  FS  PR  PA  FS  PR I PA  FS  PR  PA  FS  PR  PA  FS  PR  PA FS  PR  PA  FS  PR  PA FS    PR  PA
ARRU    _ _ _                                                                                                    j l             X J F    x  |  1 |  I  Mx  |  [  |  [1  x  3   1x   Fx-1 El  [   13
AFH  -X- E-                         [El            [ r  |                                      _  T                     _   _
CPSCL __    I=                       ___               |==
4TH     Audiit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report    Audit report
UDP    Not Available    Available     Available      Available     Available      Available     Available    Not Available   Not Available
Code:  FS      =       Financial statement audits
PA     =       Project account audits
PR     =       Progress Report
[El    =       Received



Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle           83      84    85       86      87      88      89     90    91    92    93    94        95      96    Total
Preparation/Evaluat./Effectiveness
-m staff/weeks                   0.3     41.8  70.4   19.5   0.5                                                                         132.6
- in US$ (in thousands of US$)   0.8     84.2  155.9  47.8    1 2                                                                        289.9
Supervision                                                     7.2     8.0    12.0  7.9    7.7   7.9    10.4  10.9  12.1   5.4   89.6
- in staff/weeks
- in US$ (in thousands of US$)                                  16.3   19.5   31.7   23.6  24.2  26.5  35.4  33.1   26.3   8.3   245.0
Completion
- in staff/weeks                                                                                                                 5.0   5.0
- in US$ (in thousands of US$)                                                                                                   7.2   7.2
TOTAL
- in staff/weeks                                                                                                                        227.2
- in US$ (in thousands of US$)                                                                                                          542.1



29
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Fourth Urban Developement Project
(Loan 2736-TUN)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Project Rating
Activity             Date               Number of      Days in field    Specialized     lmplementn.    Development          Types of
persons                        staff skills                    Objectives           problers3
I ______________________                                                reDresented
Identification        Not Available     N A            N A              NA               N APP          N APP               N APP
Preparation           April 1983        4              7                TM,L0,F          N APP          N APP                N APP
Jul/Aug 1983      3   _          12               F, TM, UP        N APP          N APP               N APP
_____________   Sept/Oct 1983            2              7               LO, E            N APP          N APP                N APP
Pre-Appraisal         Oct/Nov 1983      3              15               TKF,C(EG)        N APP          N APP               N APP
Mar/Apr 1984      4              16               TM,C(EG),C,E    N APP           N APP               N APP
Appraisal            Oct 19S4           6              21               TM,2F,UP,        N APP          N APP               N APP
___________                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~C(EG),E
February 1985     2              12               TM,E             N APP          N APP               N APP
Appraisal            Apr/May 1985       2              11               TM,E             N APP          N APP               N APP
Supervision          Apr/May 1987       2              7                TM,C(EG)         HS             HS
September 1987    2              8                U  TM            S         _   HS
Supervision          Mar ch 1988        4              8                TM,UP,2C         N              N                   _
Jun/Jul 1988      3              6                TM,UP,F          N              N
Supervision          Oct/Nov 1988       4              8                TM,UP,C,L        S              S                   PM
Supervision          Jan/Feb 1989       1              10               TM               S              S                   PM
Supervision          Mav/Jun 1989       1               7               TM               N              N                   N
Supervision          October 1989        _             7                TM               S              HS                  P, APF
Supervision          December 1989      2              7                TM,C             S              HS
Superviion           February 1990      2              7                T7  cS           HS             HS
Supervision          June 1990          1              5                TM               S              HS
Supervision          Nov/Dec 1990       1              8                TM               S             HS                   APF, PM
Supervision          July 1991          1              10               TM               S              HS                  PM
Supervision          Feb/Mar 1992                      10               TM               S              HS
Supervision          November 1992      2              8                TM,F             S             HS
Supervision          December 1993      2              14               TMC(EG)          S              HS
July 1994         2              10               TM,C(EG)         S              HS
Supervision          Nov/Dec 1994       3              14               TM,F,C(EG)       HS             HS
June 1995         3              9                TM,EG,           HS             HS
C(EG)
Comipletion           June 1995
1:                                                                             2.
A     = Architect                       E      = Economist                     HS       =  Highly Satisfactory
LO   = Loan Oficer                      C      = Consultant                    U        =  Unsatisfactory
CD   = Division Chief                   EG    = Engineer                       N APP  =  Not Applicable
TM    = Task Manager (A)                UP   = Urban Planner                    S       =  Satisfactory
F     = Financial Analyste              CS   = Computer Specialist             NA       =  Not Available
L     = Law-yer
3:
TA    = Technical Assistance                L     = Legal Clauses
S     = Studies                             P     = Procurement
T     = Training                            APF = Audit Performance
PM    = Project Management



30
ANNEX -- BORROWER'S REPORT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-ooOoo-



31
CONTENTS
I.        PROJECT  OBJECTIVES                        ...............................   32
1.1   General objectives    .................................   32
1.2   Specific objectives    .................................   32
II.       RESULTS    .........................................   33
*      Upgrading  component  ...............................   33
*      Sites and  services  ..................................   33
*    Self-help construction and housing improvement loans component ... . 33
2.1. Designing  and programming    ...........................   34
2.2. Project implementation                  ..............................   35
2.3. Project impact    ...................................   36
2.4. Factors affecting  project implementation   ....................   37
III.   EXPECTED PROJECT PERFORMANCE  ..................... 38
IV.       CONCLUSIONS    .....................................   38



32
1     -     PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1    General objectives
The Fourth lTDP reflected the Government's commitment to continue its efforts to provide
urban services and serviced plots to low-income urban populations, whose demand for those amenities
was only partially being met by the housing financing systems then in place and the housing and land
development institutions.
The project also aimed to improve the institutional structure of agencies operating in the
housing sector.
It further aimed to grant housing loans to beneficiaries with no other sources of financing.
1.2   Specific objectives
On July 18, 1996, the World Bank signed a loan agreement granting Tunisia a line of credit to
finance part of the project expenses. The project originally comprised three components:
-      JUpgrading of 18 existing neighborhoods through improvement of infrastructure and
construction of community facilities, for an estimated cost of TD 28 million. This component was
intended to benefit around 100,000 inhabitants. In addition to regularizing occupancy status and
developing and servicing infill plots, the project aimed to facilitate the installation and extension of road
and footpath and utility networks (potable water, electricity, sewerage and drainage) and the grant of
home expansion and improvement loans. By the end of the project it was expected that 11,000
dwellings would be hooked up to the sewerage network, 6,000 to the main water supply, and 4,000 to
the electricity system.
-     Another major component, designed to prevent the development of squatter
settlements, consisted of the creation of self-help construction sites for low-income groups. It was
planned to produce 8,500 small-sized plots on some 20 sites across the country, and loans would be
granted for core housing construction. The estimated cost of this component was TD 18.9 million.
-     The third component covered technical assistance, involving the purchase of computer
hardware and the introduction of measures to improve administrative performance. AFH would
receive guidance in setting up a computerized management information system.
The upgrading component was entrusted to ARRU and the serviced plots component to AFH.
The component providing loans for self-help construction and housing improvement was to be
managed by the BH.



33
H   -   RESULTS
*     Upgrading component
As a result of the experience acquired with the Third UDP, ARRU was able to accomplish the
goals it was assigned. The achievements were as follows:
-     of the 18 sites selected and approved by all of the partners (DGCPL, the municipalities,
World Bank), two sites (Mzara in Beja and Moalla in Gafsa) were financed out of the undisbursed
balance of the Third UDP, while the remaining 16 were financed under the Fourth UDP;
nine additional neighborhoods were identified and upgraded;
-     a resettlement operation was carried out to ensure the safety of households living in
buildings in danger of collapse.
This extension of the project to include new sites was made possible by the appreciation of the
dollar in relation to the dinar, and to the savings achieved on certain projects after more work was done
on the detailed engineering studies and the action program was revised.
Sites and Servicing
Of the 20 subdivisions initially identified, comprising 8,500 plots, 13 were finally selected and
2,262 plots developed.
In developing these subdivisions, AFH encountered several different problems, mainly
involving accessibility, network connections, the danger of flooding in certain locations, and land
issues.
*     Self-help construction and housing improvement loans component
The hold-up in starting on the sites and servicing sub projects led to a delay in the consumption
of loans earmarked for this purpose. The Loan Agreement was amended in 1988 to include a new
component for low-cost housing construction. This has made the pace of loan consumption pick up
noticeably.
The funding covered:
-     the development of serviced subdivisions
-     loans for self-help construction
-     loans to improve housing on upgraded sites
-     housing promotion productoion by developers.



34
In quantitative terms, the project results may be summed up as follows:
-     upgrading of 26 neighborhoods in 25 communes, municipalities, including a rehousing
operatoion, affecting a total population of 107,000, at an overall cost (excluding management fees) of
TD 23.023 million;
-     construction of 111 km of roads;
-     laying of 117 km of sewer pipes and construction of eight pumping stations, that have
allowed some 11,000 dwellings to be connected to the system in the first stage;
-     laying of about 27 km of pipes to extend the drinking water supply network;
-     creation of public lighting networks in a dozen neighborhoods, with the installation of
1,250 street lamps;
construction of 10 primary schools and one extension;
construction of eight dispensaries;
-     upgrading of a municipal market, and provision of garbage collection vehicles and
equipment in 10 communes;
award of 3,765 housing extension and improvement loans, for a total of TD 3.399
million;
-     financing of 18 construction projects involving the erection of 3,196 low-cost dwellings
by private and public promoters, for a total of TD 13.019 million;
-     award of 1,876 self-help construction loans, for a total of TD 5,357 million;
development of 2,262 serviced plots, for a total of TD 1.346 million.
Beyond the goals set and the quantitative results obtained, a few comments are in order
concerning project design and implementation.
2.1   Design andprogramming
-     Under the original setup the State was to contribute an average of 25%. This percentage was
intended to maintain government subsidization within reasonable proportions, thereby also making it
possible to hold down off-site expenditures
This average was exceeded in some of the projects, a fact explained by the need to install
network connections, most often those linking the plots to the sewerage system.



35
Thanks to these connections, however, it was possible to bring the service to larger areas than
those originaly targeted by the project.
-     The project component for infill plot development was not carried out. This may be explained
in part by the large number of projects, their dispersal across the country, the type of tenure of the
unbuilt lands (oint tenancy, absence of registration) and the lack of eagerness on the part of the
landowners to sell their lands.
-     The number of demolitions and resettlements to make room for upgrading activities and utility
installation was considerably lower than the estimates given in the preliminary studies.
-     Recourse to expropriation for the acquisition of land was not automatic.
-     At the request of the municipalities, the end-of-project savings were used to purchase garbage
collection equipment and to develop green spaces.
-     TThe sports fields originally provided for in the project did not materialize, since a nationwide
program was launched at the same time by the "Ministre de la Jezinesse et de En7fance".
2.2   Project implementafion
- 'JUpgrading component
Overall, this component progressed at a satisfactory pace, over 90% of the works being
completed by December 1992, two years before the programmed completion date of December 31,
1994.
This performance was made possible thanks to the experience gained by ARRU during
preparation and implementation of UDP3. ARRU's decision to set up field units in the southern and
central parts of the country was undoubtedly a factor in improving project management and monitoring
and in reducing implementation periods.
However, a few delays did occur in the execution of project extensions financed out of the
undisbursed balances of loans to the communes, which took a considerable time to prepare, approve
and implement (for example, Bir Aniba in Tunis, and El Ghodrane in Sousse).
The process of awarding housing improvement and extension loans got off to a slow start.
Here again, the experience of UDP3 enabled us to make changes during project implementation that
led to improved handling of loan applications and a faster pace of loan consumption.



36
*     Loans component
Despite startup delays affecting certain components, the project achieved its overall objectives
thanks to the introduction along the way of various modifications and corrections.
The loan agreement was signed on July 18, 1986, but the first requests for reimbursement did
not come in until November 1988.
Consequently, and with a view to expediting loan fund withdrawals and thereby reducing
commitment fees, the Government proposed to amend the loan agreement through the introduction, as
of November 8, 1988, of a new "Promoters" component, for which the Bank's contribution was
approved at US$11 million.
Moreover, and to expedite consumption of funds earmarked for the housing expansion and
improvement component, a circular dated October 11, 1980 from the Minister of Equipment and
Housing introduced a provision making the conditions of this type of loan more flexible and
authorizing interest rate subsidies for borrowers.
These amendments had positive repercussions on the consumption of finds.
A     Serviced plots component
AFffs action program was curtailed to 13 low-cost subdivisions as a result of the technical
constraints and land-tenure problems mentioned above.
The marketing of some of these sites also proved difficult. This was attributable to the size of
the self-financing contribution initially required of plot recipients. This contribution was reduced from
30% to 20% as the project neared completion, a move that improved the rate of sale of the serviced
plots.
23   Project impact
Although it may be premature, in the absence of a special study, to assess the project's impact,
the following outcomes have been noted:
integration of upgraded neighborhoods into the rest of the city;
-     improvement of living conditions for beneficiaries (access to urban services, to
educational and health facilities, etc.);
creation of a self-investment dynamic in the area of housing improvement and
expansion;



37
upgrading of neighborhood image through higher costs of real estate (land and
buildings);
-     the loans for expansion and improvement have been considerable factors in improving
housing and living conditions;
-     demonstration effect on municipal investments and on efforts to popularize the policy
for upgrading under-integrated areas;
access of a low-income segment of the urban population to decent and affordable
housing;
2.4   Factors affecting project implementafion
Attention is drawn to the existence of certain factors that have partially affected achievement of
the project objectives:
The financial eligibility of the communes for this project was based on their residual
indebtedness capacity. The financial setup adopted was designed not to mortgage that entire capacity,
in fact at least 50%/o was to be left intact.
Because of this constraint, it happened in certain cases that a budget, while being within
the reach of the commune concerned, was inadequate to cover implementation of an integrated
upgrading program. This meant that programs had to be curtailed to fit into the commune's financial
capacities.
For instance, certain neighborhoods have so far only been connected to a sewerage
network and are still without roads, footpaths, or a public lighting system.
-     The inadequate performnance of certain poorly qualified consulting firms and of certain
contractors was, to a lesser extent, a cause of delay on certain sites.
-     Where the low-cost subdivisions were concerned, the lack of projects properly
identified at the outset and the choice of certain technically or socioeconomically inappropriate sites
held up the implementation of this component.
-     The lack of coordination among the various actors (absence of a body to coordinate
the actions of the different operators).
-     The rate of recovery of loans awarded under this project is very low (23% at June 30,
1995). This raises a basic issue concerning the replicability of a project of this type.
However, the Housing Bank will continue its efforts to improve the recovery rate, with
a view to ensuring the sustainability of this activity.



38
Im   -   EXPECTED PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Following on from the preceding urban development projects, the Fourth UDP aims to
improve the institutional capacities of the agencies operating in the housing sector.
In ARRUYs case, a test was made of its capacities for designing, preparing and implementing
integrated projects. Thanks to ARRUs experience with the Third UDP and the assistance it received
within the framework of the present project, it was able to improve the performance of its staff and to
upgrade its capabilities as delegated contracting authority "maltre d'ouvrage dtlegue" for the
municipalities.
In addition, with its project monitoring and evaluation unit and computerized monitoring
system, ARRU has been able since April 1989 to put out monthly progress reports and to upgrade its
project management system.
IV    -      CONCLUSIONS
The following lessons may be drawn from implementation of this project:
1.    The loan, in the form of a line of credit, was able to include new operations, provided
they met the eligibility criteria, and thus to exceed the project's original objectives.
2.    The necessity of defining the functions and responsibilities of the delegated contracting
authority and of institutionalizing this type of intervention to benefit the municipalities.
3.    The use of simplified setups and less complex financing procedures and circuits makes
it possible to shorten the implementation period for this type of project. It is true that restructuring of
CPSCL has helped improve the financial management of operations.
4.    Ensure greater participation by the municipalities and local inhabitants in the
identification of priorities and definition of upgrading programs.
The population needs to be inforned of the project cost, of the financial effort demanded of it,
and of the financing terms (prefinancing and recovery).
5.    Review the question of recovery of expenses based on the residents' tax [tace d5e
riverains] and propose another method of recovery.
6.    Thanks to its experience with the various upgrading programs, ARRU is in a position
to draw up a list of reputable contractors experienced in upgrading work. This list could serve as a
reference for the award of the various work contracts.



39
7.    Ensure that the necessary means are in place to maintain the newly installed
infrastructure. What generally happens is that the communes pay little heed to a project's survival
when there are pressing needs elsewhere demanding their attention and the execution of new projects.
8.    The technical and economic feasibility of low-cost subdivisions intended to meet part
of the urban housing demand has proven conclusive. There is still a need to consolidate this project
and to provide better supervision for the self-help construction activities.
9.    The choice of location for a subdivision needs to be carefully studied. Likewise, the
choice of candidates will henceforth be the exclusive responsibility of AFH and BX and will be based
on solvency, with a view to guaranteeing the beneficiarys participation.
It has also been decided to apply an equalization formula to the cost price of a plot and to
increase plot size to approximately 150 m2.



40
KEYDATES
Fourth Urban DevelopmentProject
Loan agreement signed           07/18/1986
Loan effectiveness date         04/17/1987
First amendment                  11/09/1988
Closing date (original)         12/31/1994
Closing date (extended)         06/31/1995
Loan amount - upgrading
component (1 A)                US$11,600,000
Cost of works performed
(I A)                          TD 17,971,135
Project cost - upgrading
component                      TD 23,023,996*
Beneficiary population          107,214
Number of housing units         15,600
Number of households             19,351
Number of neighborhoods         26
Number of communes              25
Area covered by the upgrading
component                      634 ha
*     Excluding management expenses
(Nextpage: Geographic distnbution of subprojects carried out by ARRU)



41
Housing Development Agency (AFH)
Fourth Urban Development Project
Table 1: AFH Implementation Plan
Date issued: June 30, 1995
Pursuant to Loan Agreement No. 2736 concluded between the Tunisian Govemrnment and the World Bank on July
18, 1986, the overall amount to be allocated to the serviced plots and self-help construction component is TD 6.6
million, of which TD 3.6 million represents the World Bank's contnbution and TD 3 million is to be provided out of
the government budget.
Number of sites:          14
Number of plots:          2,262
Total number of contracts:   1,964
N.B. Twelve sites are fully completed. One site (Ouec Ellil) is 700/o complete.



42
Housing Bank (BH)
Fourth Urban Development Project
Table 2: Serviced Plots and Self Help Construction
Sites/AFH                  Plots to be Amount   Total Credit Awarded World Bank Released Funding
Produced  Budgeted  Number  Amount   ivil worKs Const. bubloans   T'-T0=
ESSAADA (SOUSSE)                 279   775 338        275   751 634     229 501         522 133    751 634
ERRIADH (JENOUBA)                252   697 738        224   574 088     110 180         463 908    574 088
EL ONS (LE KEF)                   126   307 919       125  435 326       24 879         410 447    435 326
SAHBI III (KAIROUAN)             247   591 794        243   601 706     128 009         473 697    601 706
SILIANA                           253   640 269       249   545 900     119 773         426 127    545 900
SIDI BOUZID                       197   474 527       197   575 838      96 071         479 767    575 838
HAMMAM ZRIBA                      135   362 094       118   310 246      71170          239 076    310 246
SRIBA (KASSERINE)                 153   429 517        98   254 350      73 601         180 749    254 350
SIDI BOULBAB (GABES)              132   381 469        48   166 787      69 000          97 787    166 787
SOUASSI                           146   480 527       121   408 707      94 722         313 985    408 707
CHEBBA                            104   361 656        47   162 857     107 800         143 157    250 957
THALA (KASSERINE)                 167   591 178        30   101 331     198 500         101 331    299 831
OUED ELLIL (CHABBAOU)             154   548 201       101   468 071      22 900         468 071    490 971
TOTAL             2345  6 642 227     1 876 5 356 841   1 346 106       4 320 235  5 666 341



Housing Development Agency (AFH)
Fourth Urban Development Project
Table 3: Sites and Services -- Financial Situation
Sub-  No. of Plots            No of       Cost of       Actual     Prefinancing        S a I e s          Consolidated
Division                       Plots        Works        Expenses      Obtained   No. of Plots    Amount   Prefinancing
1   SILANA                      253     196 185 000  159 384 000   129 483 000        250    282 439 000   129 490 000
2   LE KEF (ONS)                126     168 717 000   50 440 000    12 160 000        125    173 336 000    12 145 000
3   JENDOUBA RLADH              252    273 192 000  237 636 000   112 837 000         234    402 995 000   112 827 000
4   HAMMAM ZRIBA                135     124 825 000  113 243 000    91 922 000        118    170 030 000    91 922 000
5   SOUSSE ESSAADA              279    464 797 000  368 958 000   221 556 000         278    376 937 000   221 513 000
6   KAIROUAN SIDI SAHBI         247      21 208 200  173 299 000   133 699 000        243    331 136 000   126 599 000
7   SIDI BOUZID                 197     155 841 000  121 673 000    32 852 000        197    298 392 000    32 852 000
8   SBIBA                       152    222 531 042  114 602 000    38 600 000          98    130 949 000    38 610 000
9   THALA                       167    450 000 000  359 351 761   198 500 000          30     59 922 000    19 094 000
10   ECHABBA                     104    280 155 000  117 492 627   120 800 000         47    125 693 000    61 575 054
11   SOUASSI                     146    310 436 614  184 015 191   145 000 000        123    286 401 000   145 000 000
12   GABES SIDI BOULBABA         52     162 000 000   49 016 323    69 000 000         48     80 696 000    69 000 000
13   OUED ELAH                   152-   173 630 000   71 488 347    71 500 000        101    282 413 000
TOTAL                     2 262   2 807 332 856 2 120 599 249 1 377 909 000    1 892  3 001 339 000 9 307 184 259



44
Housing Bank (BR)
Fourth Urban Development Project
Table 4: Housing Developers Component
DEVELOPERS/SITES             No. of   WB Funding  WB Funding  Purchasers'
Housing Units Authorised    Released   Credit
PRIM (FOUCHANA)                   746  2 816 555 2 816 555 000   5 333 111
EDHAMEN (DJEDAIDA)                 81    319 129   319 129 000     610 320
EDHAMEN (BEJA)                    191    760 376   689 554 029   1 276 952
EDHAMEN (KSOUR ESSAF)              44    180 000   180 000 000     322 697
LA RUCHE (M'HAMEDIA)              305  1 090 873 1 090 873 000   2 098 638
LOGECO (ZAGHOUAN)                  37    159 590   159 590 000     313 164
SNIT SUD (SFAX)                   429  1 671 151  1 671 151 000   3 504 106
SNIT NORD (BEJA)                  185    810 000   609 503 930   1 128 711
SNIT NOR (KEF)                    320  1 273 500 1 088 239 882   2 313 037
SNIT CENTER (KASSERINE)            42    142 200   142 200 000     231 693
SNIT CENTER (SOUSSE)              389   1305 901  1305 350 601   2 353 194
SNIT CENTER (KAIROUN)              81    279 000   279 000 000     554 957
SNIT CENTER (MAHDIA)               53    184 500   184 500 000     333 426
SNIT CENTER (KALAA KEBIR           40    135 000   133 937 454     337 658
SNIT CENTER (KSAR HELLAL           31    109 800   109 800 000     209 751
IBTIKAR (KSOUR ESSAF)              77    570 810   508 056 000     940 344
HABIT MORENE (DOUAR HIC            57    513 263   332 266 000     615 308
L'ARCHE (SFAX)                     88    698 050   610 065 000   1129 750
TOTAL             3196 13 019 698 12 230 270 995  23 657 317



45
Housing Bank (BH)
Fourth Urban Development Project
Table 5: Subloans Granted for Housing Improvement
Sites                         Amount          Loans Granted
Budgeted  Number           Amount
MAHDIA                            60 000       54         59 938
MAKTHER                          140 000      128        140100
ZAGHOUAN (EL FAHS)               305 000      320        294 800
KELIBIA                           98 000      108         90 900
TATOUINE                         144 000      207        142 460
MEDNINE                          120 000      102        117 400
MENZEL BOURGUIBA                 136 000      201        136 100
MOKNINE                           90 000       83         88 500
MONSTIR                           21 000       29         21 000
KEBILI                           124 000      169        124 000
GABES                            240 000      154        236 100
HAFFARA (SFAX)                    78 000       70         77 000
EL GHODRANE (SOUSSE)             445 000      312        445 000
SIDI MOSBAH (BEN AROUS)          211 200      177        188 594
SIDI BOUZID                      168 000      243        168 000
MENCHIA (KAIROUAN)               120 000      221        120 000
BIR ANIBA                         40 000       23         38 300
KASSERINE                        336 000      653        334 500
BIZERTE (ENNAKHLA)               120 050      134        120 050
TOZEUR                            96 000       78         96 000
BIR ZITOUN (TEBOURBA)             32 000       81         79 740
METLAOUI                         300 000      218        281 200
TOTAL                   3 474 250    3 765      3 399 682



Urban Rehabilitation Agency (ARRU)
Fourth Urban Development Proiect
Table 6: Upgrading Component
SUBPROJECT COSTS                                                                                                               PHYSICAL PROJECTS
SITE                     -  CIVILWORKS                COMMUNITY   LAND    SUBLOANS    SOIL    GRAND   ROADS  SEWERAGE                           CONNECTIONS              LIGHTING  SCHOOLS   HEALTH            MISC.
PRIMARY SECONDARY CONNECTNS.  FACILITIES                   IMPRVMNTS   STUDIES   TOTAL           (ml   SYSTEM (M)        SEWERAGE    IVLK iuwL                                 CENTERS
Ben Arous - Sidi Mosbah        88590       590747        118 401        38 607    27160        188584   45 438   1 0955U44    1400       7 200          700 U                   800    40 Pt               I Hhh Center
Tunlis . BirAniba              73 691      273 710         5594         53373    12 331         38 300    2 381    459 350    1000       940            105 U                                                          It - A I r
Bizee - Ennakhla              198 481      398 855        44 248       173 526    9000         120050   11820    955 98       2800       3 880          201 U                   400    60 Pt   I School    I Htnh Center
Carthage - Med Ali - Yasmina    364 236    436 000        87 98                   2 050                  10 749    900 993    5 300 6700ni + lstatn.    700 U
El Fahs Mechta                213 99       252 808        82 477                 20 000        294 800   28 469    892 553      900      2 838          423 U                          136 Pt
Gabes - Mintake El Oued       496 975      596245         88 278                  17100        236100             1434 98   10100 2sttin.o 3870m         570U                          67 rt
Hammarnet - Erriadh            98 828      190 000        54 364                                          8 994    352 184    2 900 lstatn.+ 3535ml     185 U
Kairouan - El Menchia         441888    1 023 340        1450QO        161 732    3 259        120000   12569   1907 788   17 468       9858            1111 U                                  1 School    1 HithCenter Mur - 
Kasserine - Ennour            348 509      708033        212 587       120 350    54 000       334 500   34 371   1 812330    2432      14 735          1809 U                3130    112Pt   I School
Kebili - Nozta Charguia       226 983      411 510        56 257                 22 488        124 000   19133   8W 369    8 425 lstatn.+ 6599ml       473 U                          55 Pt       _                         am..
Kelibia - Assimer             104 021      205 200        13 677        50 771    10152         90 90O    11121    485 842    1 700      1 650          690 U                 3 000                          Type lIl
Mahdia - Lakouach             466 201      270498         58 206       129641    50581          59938   22918   1 057 983    4 700      5272            468 U                 1 050    35 Pt   8Classrmo
Makthar Ksiba                  65832       118469         24729                  41717         140100    3727    394574         971      1 568          190U                   831                                     2 nar/n      Z
Medenine - Judet               41 963      304 781                      95 382    78 740       117 400   18 211    850 457    4 510                                           1 900    168 Pt   2cls.htth C    Type IIl
Menzel Bourguiba - Ennajah    142 445      499 384        41549         47 840    88 804       136100   29 269    983 391    2 263      7120             529                  4 700    79 Pt               1 Hnlh Center
Metlaoui - Trabelsia          128 039      282 223                                             281 200   23 087    714 549    5 000
Moknine Kheireddine           143 973      340 784        32175        131 542    87 254        88 500   31 723    855 951    2 270     4 365                                 1 100             I Scholj
Monastir * Essalem            107 465      457 544        28 957       138 070    so 192        21 000   20 051    819 279    7 070                                                             a ciasosros
STax - Haffara                 73 823      154 810        16 475                 23872          77 000    2 821    348 601    1 650      2 533          1e0 U                  870
S&di ouzid - F O Belhedi      146 965      392 589         8 639       102182    14 751        168 000   20 091    911 217    7 734      8 395          479 U                 4 395    97 Pt   1 School
Tunis - Souidet                43 457       70 482         7 677        22 847    315000                  2 350    177813    1980        485             49 U
Sousse-EI Ghodrane            442 076      808 778        78170        203101   145 781        445 0CO   45 243   2168149   11 250      10 200          761 U                 2950    63 Pt   1 School    1 Hlth Center
Tataouine - Erriadh           168 s9e      299 718         8 990        43 087    32 144       142 460   21 653    716 646    5 735 1 628ml + 1 statn.   52 U                 1 845    198 Pt                Type IUI
Teboufba - Bir Ztoun          195 874      295016         92 529       127000    40 492         79 740   18 204    848 855    2 000 Istatn.+ 5580ml     451 U                          43 Pt   1 School
Tozeur - El Hadhar            297 853      342 491       128813                   68 13         96000              871 570    1200  8600+ 1sttn.        800 U                          C0P n
SOUSTOTAL            5 120 761    9 723 813     1 489 530     1 637 031   887 488     3 399 82  444 371  22882878  110658 102 U35 + 8statn.     9898U                 28 981   1174 Pt  IOSchools 81HnhlCenters
Relgement - Petite Sicile     170 860      170680                                                                  341320
TOTALGENERAL            5 291 421    9 894 473     1 49 530     16 37 031   887 488     3399882  444 371  23 02399   110558 117  O + 8sttn.    10904U                   26961   1253Pt  10 choo   8 HtCenbn



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28052
TUNISIA                  9°                      10                       lM       c t r              n BRD 285
FOURTH URBAN                                       Bzj.                               Mediterranean
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                    BIZT *RT!  E                                              S e a
(LOAN 2736)                                         IRINA
-37/                                  Arous
.L JENjOUBA  J>   ,
_,   Jendoubao              '>        Zj                     Nobeul
%
'-1-    ,,,     -   -'           /ZAGHOUAN   K
(S W                  a .   \  *   *   <  *  . )  Gu'i ol Ho,on-et              30'
*A  El Kof I   SILIANA
EL KEF       1    IIons 1          )            Monust
-36'                                                                                       OMONASTIR
t(AIROUAN   OKar      a   _ M   NA  T
rt    5   (-   t  KAIRolJANe F )Sf~~9,j   Mahdio
~A                *SMb7
KASSERINE            t                  K AMAHDIA
~~~~''^ (*L.                                                                                                                35~
Jt        Kosserine \sidi Brid        </
0~~~~
35                                (                D      SIDI BOU 70   / D                    Sfax
A         / ,   ,   S F A X               Krenk-h i,.
G A F S A
<   of *  *Gafsa
.._/  K.                .                 G<,'i 
|   --n   X                              r    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G.°b-  Dje-b. I
I                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gabes
-34'             i    TOZEUR  Tozeur /                               G B
.Chotr ec d    *Gbelli    K               A           /
V    /                                      -                         -v n.
\Medenine
MEDENINE
1,                            '                                                      'B )L'~-"" ~ -
.- ,,Totoou,ne                ? 1
PROJECT SITES AT    \                                    ,
COMPLETION.                                                    '                      *_.       .
SITES & SERVICES
SUBPROJECTS                          -     -
A    UPGRADING                                                       T A T A O U I N E
SUBPROJECTS                ,TTA U(N
RIVERS                                                                                                            3
SEASONAL RIVERS
SALT LAKES
-32,    El GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                             \ 
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         \                         /
SPAIN                       ITALY  GREECE                        \ 
T $unis   S                                    \                      N                                     31
"{UNISIA                   31'  The bounde,-escolors,  \. -
.   (.                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~denominations andoany             i
S           .~~c   )                        other ,niorintoeo shoews    \                )
on this nap do not
L-tply, on the port f  \                                0     25     o    75
A L G E R I A                                  any eodg-n - rh. th e 1                                      KILOMETERS
L I B Y A                 Zo2, f-y Z-itry,
<C                             or occepto-ce of such
v.                           houndories                   , 
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15680
Type: ICR



