D_ocammt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4353-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 9, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985         May 1986
Currency Unit =    Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00        =    TD 0.75                7D 0.72
TD 1.00        =    US$1.33                US$1.39
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report TD1 = US$1.43
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFH      -   Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (Land Development Agency)
ARRU     -   Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la RBnovation Urbaine
(Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency)
BCT      -   Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET     -   Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie
(Economic Development Bank)
CNEL     -   Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (National Housing
and Savings Fund)
CPSCL    -   Caisse de Prats et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales
(Municipalities Support Fund)
FOPROLOS -   Fonds pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries
(Workers' Housing Fund)
MOEH     -   Ministere de 1'Equipement et l'Habitat (Ministry of Equipment
and Housing)
110     -   Minist6re de l'Interieur (Ministry of Interior)
MOP      -   Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
ONAS     -   Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewerage
Authority)
SNIT     -   Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (National Real
Estate Company)
SONEDE   -   Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution
des Eaux (National Water Production and Distribution
Company)
STEG     -   Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et de Gaz (Public
Electricity and Gas Company)
USAID    -   US Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIA4L USE ONLY
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Suary
Borrower:             Republic of Tunisia.
Beneficiaries:        Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation
Urbaine (ARRU), Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (APH),
the municipalities, and low-income households in
upgraded areas and serviced sites.
Amount:               US$30.2 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including three years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:      A total of $22.05 million would be onlent as follows:
the Government would onlend $7.52 million to the
Caisse de Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites
Locales (CPSCL) at the cost of Bank funds at the
date of the Loan Agreement, repayable in 20 years
including three years of grace. CPSCL would onlend
these amounts to municiualities at cost, for 20
years including two years of grace. The Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL) would manage on
behalf of the Government $14.53 million, of which
[i) $7.85 million would be onlent to AFE for site
servicing, at 11 percent per annum for three years;
and (ii) $6.68 million would be onlent to individual
beneficiaries for house construction, at
8.25 percent interest per annum for those
beneficiaries earning more than 1 1/2 times the
minimum wage (which is currently about $130 per
month) and at 7 percent interest per annum for those
beneficiaries earning equal to or less than 1 1/2
times the mi-nimum wage, in each case for 20 years
including two years of grace. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk, as well as the
interest rate risk.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:      The project would improve shelter and urban services
in under-served or squatter settlements, develop
serviced land affordable to low-income households,
and strengthen urban sector institutions. It would
provide for the financing of upgrading and site
servicing of selected subproject sites, and of house
construction and improvement loans to beneficiaries
in upgraded sites and house construction loans in
serviced sites. The project consists of three
parts: (i) upgrading, to be coordinated by ARRU, of
infrastructure and community facilities in
I This document has a mtnc  distbution   may be used by me nts only in the perform e
|of their officisl duties. las contents may not otherwie be dislased wkhout Wodd Bhank authoriSdon.|



- ii -
under-served settlements; (ii) development of
serviced sites by AFE, aimed at low-income groups;
and (iii) technical assistance to AYE and the
Direction des Collectivites Locales in the Ministry
of Finance and Economy.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would benefit population groups with
incomes below the urban household median monthly
income. About 150,000 persons would benefit
directly from the project, of which 90,000 from
improvement of urban services in their current areas
of residence, and 60,000 from acquisition of
serviced plots. Indirect benefits would accrue to
the population of settlements and owners of land
adjacent to subproject sites through their proximity
to improved services and environment. The risks
that institutional objectives related to the reform
of AFH may not be fully attained, and that, in view
of the large number and geographical dispersion of
project sites, implementation may be slower than
expected, are alleviated by staff reinforcement,
improved policies and management procedures
initiated during project preparation, and technical
assistance.
Estimated Costs-':                             Local         Foreign        Total
USWMillion
Land Acquisition and Rehousing                  6.5            0.2           6.7
Infrastructure and Utilities                   11.9           16.4          28.3
Co-mmity Facilities                              0.8           0.9           1.7
Construction Loans                              4.7            5.9          10.6
Studies, Operating Costs                        5.5            0.0           5.5
Technical Assistance                            0.0            0.5           0.5
Base Cost                                       29.4          23.9          53.3
Physical Contingencies                           1.9           1.5           3.4
Price Contingencies                             5.9            4.8          10.7
TOTAL COST                                      3z.           0.2           ALI
Financing Plan:                                Local         Foreign        Total
US$ Million
IBRD                                            -             30.2          30.2
Government                                      24.2           -            24.2
CNEL                                             6.0           -             6.0
AFE                                              7.0           -             7.0
TOTAL                                           3Z                          I7A
I/  Does not include direct taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
FY             87      88     89     90      91     92     93      94     95
Annual             0.3    1.7    4.1    4.8    5.4    5.2    3.9    2.8    2.0
Cumulative         0.3    2.0    6.1   10.9   16.3   21.5   25.4   28.2   30.2
Rate of Return:  20 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5444-TUN of June 9, 1986.
Map: No. IBRD 18756.



REPORT A3D RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.2 MILLION TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recoumendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of $30.2 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help finance
a Fourth Urban Development Project. The loar would have a term of 20 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend $7.52 million of the proceeds of the loan to CPSCL at
the same interest rate as the Bank loan at the date of the Loan Agreement,
repayable in 20 years including 3 years of grace. CPSCL would onlend these
funds to municipalities at cost, for 20 years including 2 years of grace.
CMEL would manage $14.53 million on behalf of the Government, of which $6.68
million would be onlent to individual beneficiaries for house construction, at
8.25 percent interest per annum for those beneficiaries earning more than 1
1/2 times the minioum wage and at 7 percent interest per annum for those
beneficiaries earning equal to or less than 1 1/2 times the minimum wage, for
20 years including 2 years of grace, and $7.85 million to AFH for site
servicing, at 11 percent interest per annum for three years. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk, as well as the interest rate risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i
2.      An economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic Memorandum:
Midterm Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)", in two volumes
(No. 5328-TUN), was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985.
An economic mission to review the macro-economic framework of the Seventh Plan
(1987-1991) visited Tunisia in January 1986; its findings are reflected in
this part and the country data sheets attached in Annex I.
3.      Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of
7.5 million and a per capita income of about $1100 2/. Much of Tunisia is
arid or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas
where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year
fluctuations in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one
out of every three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Kaown exploitable
reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon
1/ Part r is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-4351-TUN of June 6, 1986 for an Energy Conservation Demonstration
Project.
2/ 1985 figure at current prices and actual exchange rates.



- 2 -
reserves are limited afd require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now
given to slowing down the growth of domestic energy consumption through
conservation and pricing measures. The low qualEy- of phosphate deposits
constrains the expansion of the highly efficient Tunisian phosphate processing
industry. The country has also a considerable tourism potential; after a
period of stagnation due to high prices and unsatisfactory quality s.andards,
tourism resumed rapid growth in 1985.
4.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and
technical and vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and
the early 1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 83,
life expectancy at birth rose from 48 to 62 years, the adult literacy rate
increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric intake per
capita increased from 95 to 111 percent of minimum standard requirements. An
active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease in
fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to .2.4 percent over the
same period. However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the European Economic Community
countries and Libya, the growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main
reason for the rapidly growing, serious unemployment problem. Open
unemployment reached 14 percent in 1983 and underemployment is extensive.
These problems are particularly serious among the young.
5.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy
did well. Rapid growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by
substantial structural transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more
diversified and their share in total exports increased. Economic performance
benefitted from substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price
increase of oil, allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase
and investment to remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted
from improved economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. Price inflation was relatively modest, averaging
6.4 percent during this period. The balance of payments current account
deficit, averaging 5 to 6 percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed,
much of it by direct foreign investment. The debt service ratio was
10 percent at the end of the decade. The only major problem was a
persistently high rate of unemployment/underemployment.
6.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on e-onomic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments, and encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened income policy, particularly in cautious wage and
salary policies, and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.



-3-
7.       However, economic performance deteriorated during the Plan period.
In 1982, a prolonged drought depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial
production, technical problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries,
and tourism and exports of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the
recession in Europe and high domestic prices. Also, oil production stagnated
during the Plan period. The economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant
growth in manufacturing output, stimulated by rapidly expanding local demand.
Growth was further stimulated in 1985 by an exceptionally good agricultural
crop and resumed growth in tourism, bringing the average annual GDP growth in
the first four years of the Plan to 3.7 percent, compared to 6.3 percent
targeted. This performance was nonetheless favorable in view of the world
recession, and as compared with other countries.
8.       The Government was slow in adjusting domestic demand to the
decelerated economic growth. In contrast to the Plan's macro-economic
objectives, the investment rate remained high rather than declined, mainly due
to high public enterprise investments in energy and transportation, while
domestic consumption expanded rapidly, fuelled by sharp increases in wages and
salaries in 1982 and early 1983. This strong demand pressure, facilitated by
rather liberal credit policies, was reflected in rising inflation which
averaged nearly 10.5 percent in 1982-84, compared to 7.5 percent over
1977-81. It also contributed substantially towards the marked worsening of
the current account deficit of the balance of payments, which reached
11 percent of GDP in 1984. The Government's overall budget deficit also
increased from 5.3 to over 7 percent of GDP between 1982 and 1984. This
reflected increases in recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary
increases, higher subsidy payments to households and public enterprises,
higher public investments and growing dollar-denominated debt service payments
(caused by a 57 percent dollar appreciation vis-a-vis the Tunisian dinar
between 1981 and 1984).
9.       While the situation had not reached crisis proportions, the trend
observed during 1981-84 clearly could not be sustained. Faced with this
deterioration, the Government started to implement a package of policy
mPasures aimed at stabilizing the economy. The minimum wage has not increased
since January 1983. As a result, average nominal salaries increased by less
than 3 percent per annum over the last three years, resulting in a cumulative
decline of real salaries by over 15 percent by mid-1986. In April 1985,
general interest rates were raised by 1-2 points and, later during the year,
low special interest *ates were raised by 3-4 points; with inflation declining
to about 7 percent in 1985, most rates are now positive in real terms. In
mid-1985 the authorities adopted a more flexible exchange rate policy
resulting in a gradual downward adjustment of the dinar vis-a-vis European
currencies. Finally, credit expansion was kept in line with GDP growth in
1985.
10.      As a result of these measures, and of the imposition of drastic
foreign exchange and import restrictions, the balance of payments current
account deficit was brought back to 7 percent of GDP in 1985, despite reduced
exports of oil and phosphates. While this improved the immediate situation,
the underlying disequilibrium has not been resolved, and problems usually
associated with controls, such as growing shortages of raw materials,
semi-finished products and spare parts, have appeared. Meanwhile, the budget
deficit rose to about 9 percent of GDP in 1985 because of a slowdown in



-4-
revenues, despite a slight decline of capital expenditures in real terms. The
authorities prepared a restrictive budget for 1986, designed to reduce this
deficit to about 7 percent of GDP through a number of measures including a 15
percent reduction in real terms of subsidies to households and public
enterprises. The decline in overall public expenditures of over 2 percent in
real terms will make it possible to increase urgently needed imports of raw
materials and spare parts for the country's productive sectors without
exceeding last year's balance of payments deficit.
11.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors:  future
developments in the hydrocarbon sector, and the speed with which the
Government implements the far-reaching macro-economic policy changes discussed
below. Oil and gas exploration programs since the mid-1970s have not been
encouraging. Barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in
domestic energy demand, Tunisia is generally expected to turn into a net oil
importer in the early 1990s.
12.      Preparation of the Seventh Plan (1987-1991) is currently underway.
Preliminary indications are that the Government will give high priority to a
rapid improvement of the balance of payments and to more employment creation.
To attain these objectives, it intends to pursue a strategy based on
stimulation of non-oil exports, more efficient utilization of domestic
economic resources, especially of human capital, and better savings
mobilization through more restrictive demand management. Preliminary
projections indicate that a GDP growth of 3.5-4 percent per annum, and a
reduction in the current account deficit, can be achieved without a systematic
recourse to quantitative restrictions and other protection measures, and
without excessive external borrowing. This growth scenario would only be
possible, however, if additional substantive adjustment measures are taken
over and above the ones already implemented.
13.      The Tunisian authorities, in consultation with the Bank, have
prepared a program of structural reforms emphasizing policy action in eight
different fields: wages and salaries, exchange rate, budgetary policies,
interest rates, monetary and credit policies, price and investment
liberalization, and import protection. In the first five of these fields, the
Government has, over the last few years, made considerable and successful
efforts, and all indications are that it will continue to do so. Restrictive
wage and salary policies are likely to continue; an austere budget is in place
for 1986, and guidelines for the coming years include a nearly 10 percent
annual reduction in subsidies in real terms. Most interest rates are now
positive. On the exchange rate, the Government recognizes that a flexible
policy has to be followed to improve Tunisia's competitiveness in
agricultural and manufactured products, as well as in tourism, in order to
achieve its ambitious export targets.
14.      While substantial progress has been made since the early 1980s on
these important issues, progress has been more limited in the remaining areas,
i.e., on price and investment liberalization and import protection. Over the
last years, the Government has focused with some success on administrative
type measures. Concerned with immediate economic and social problems, it
resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls such as
mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. The price liberalization
process has moved slowly, with some reductions in price subsidies



- 5 -
(particularly for transportation and energy), increasing liberalization of
agricultural producer prices and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. While investment incentives were modified to stimulate
exports and promote regional development, strict investment licensing was
still maintained. The program of structural reforms, to be implemented over
the coming 2-3 years, includes a number of concrete policy changes aimed at
dealing with these issues, so as to achieve a gradual but systematic decontrol
of. the economy.
15.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 10 percent in 1984. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services. Oa one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of, and sensitive to income distribution issues, and to the Government's
responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of
past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the improvement of the
country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand for improved
standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the provision of
adequate social services - education, health, urban infrastructure, housing -
is being increasingly hampered by budgetary constraints. To reduce the
financial burden of social services, the administration is reviewing the cost
structure of the various types of social services, including free or
below-cost delivery, and the possible introduction of some user fees. Special
efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure management, in particular
as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities to.deprived
zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for servicing and
maintaining them could become prohibitive.
16.      To reduce socio-economic differences, in particular between rural and
urban areas, and between workers in the modern sector and those precariously
employed in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources
into regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises, and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand.
17.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of t*C
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 8), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. According to preliminary estimates, total
public foreign debt outstanding and disbursed reached nearly $4.1 billion (50
percent of GDP) at the end of 1985. The debt service ratio rose to about 22
percent in 1985. However, the Tunisian authorities have followed cautious
debt management policies; whilz the share of short-term borrowings has



- 6 -
increased slightly since 1980, Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains
predominantly long and medium-term, and debt service requirements are
projected to increase only slowly. During 1980-84, 60 percent of foreign loan
commitments were from official sources, and nearly 35 percent on concessional
terms.  Over 70 percent of official commitments came from bilateral sources
(mainly Arab oil-producing countries, France, Japan and the Federal Republic
of Germany), about 20 percent from the Bank Group and 10 percent from other
multilateral sources. Overall borrowing terms were favorable, averaging
8 percent interest and 15.2 years maturity.
18.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements should remain
easily manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes
to be initiated during the next few years.  The Government's medium-term
objective is to maintain the present level of indebtedness; this prospect
strongly depends on a timely implementation of policy measures to accelerate
exports, reduce public investments, slow down growth of domestic demand, and
liberalize the economy by easing regulations and controls. On this basis, the
current account deficit is projected to average about $540 million in 1988 and
1989, but decline thereafter.  During 1986-91 new loan comfitments from abroad
could be kept at a little over $1 billion per year on average (in current
prices), while net foreign borrowing might increase from about $360 to $400
million during the same period; this could result in a debt service ratio
peaking at about 25 percent in 1990.
19.      To conclude, Tunisia, after a decade of good performance, is facing a
major challenge in having to adapt its economic structure to the post-
hydrocarbon era at a time of external and internal financial constraints. A
strategy of demand restraint and export promotion combined with more liberal
economic policies is called for to improve efficiency and preserve the
country's financial stability and creditworthiness. The Government has
already taken several measures to implement such a strategy. Considering its
long record of prudent external debt management, there are good grounds to
assume that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy changes, and remain
creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA1'
20.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-nine loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,481.0 million and $75.2 million
(net of cancellations) of wnich forty-four loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1986, overall disbursements amounted to
52.5 percent of appraisal estimates, whi-h is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, energy,
industrial finance and port projects has generally been above the country
average, while longer than average disbursement delays have been experienced
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report No.
P-4351-TUN of June 6, 1986 for an Energy Conservation Demonstration
Project.



-7-
for agricultural credit, education, highways, urban and fisheries projects,
due to project-specific problems that are being addressed through supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have
been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
21.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustment process will require further
diversification of exports, greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer
subsidies, gradual liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger
incentives to the private sector particularly in agriculture and industry,
while taking measures to increase employment and target development to
low-income groups. In support of the above, the overall objective of Bank
lending is to emphasize projects which have a direct and rapid impact on
production, employment and exports (or import savings) and which minimize
Government net contributions. The focus of lending for agriculture and
industry meets this objective. In addition to the above, proposed Bank
lending would focus on improvement of public enterprise performance,
conservation and development of energy resources, and continued support to the
social sectors and operations targeted to low-income groups. For the latter,
attention would be given to increased efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
institutions and investments, and to linkages with directly productive sectors
(e.g., education reforms stressing vocational training). We envisage only
marginal lending for basic economic infrastructure, focussed in areas where
Bank guidance would still be useful, such as rural water supply and highways
maintenance.
22.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 21, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the proposed Fourth Urban Development Project, programmed lending in the
next couple of years would include projects for highways maintenance, grain
storage, credit lines for small-scale industries and agriculture, and sector
loans for agriculture and industry.
23.      The Bank's economic and sector work will address the increasing
complexity of the macro-economic and sector problems that Tunisia will face in
the medium term, and continue to focus on strengthening the macro-economic and
sector base for our lending program. Eowever, while in the past it was mainly
devoted to the study of major structural problems, it is now focussed on
implementing the policy recommendations of these studies through sector
lending in agricultwre, manufactured exports, public enterprises and
transport; it will therefore concentrate on the following main tasks: (a)
preparation of the macro-economic framework of the Seventh Plan, which will
provide the policy base of sec-or lending; (b) review of public expenditures
under the Plan to provide guidance for the necessary reductions in budget
outlays; (c) assessment of public enterprise reforms prepared by the



-8-
Government to reduce their drain on the State budget; and (d) monitoring of
the agreed macro-economic and sector policy changes. The progra also
includes studies on education administration and finance, municipal finance
and development, energy pricing, and the impact of the adjustment program on
various income groups.
24.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 27.8 percent of total
commitments from official sources to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in
total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from
private sources) was an estimated 14.8 percent, and their share in debt
service during 1984 was 11.7 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in
Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to increase to about
18.7 percent and their share in the debt service to about 17.3 percent in 1986.
25.      As of March 31, 1986, I%. s net commitments in Tunisia totalled about
$7.5 million. IFC has supported the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET) to foster development projects, and the National Bank for Tourism
Development (BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects. It has also
assisted the Societ6 Touristique et Hoteli6re (RYM), a large hotel
development; the Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export; and the Societe d'Etudes et de
D6veloppement de Sousse-Nord for an integrated tourism development project.
In FY84, IFC approved two new equity investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a
project to privatize, rehabilitate and expand an existing fluorspar mine; and
(ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first leasing company in Tunisia to provide
financing to the industrial sector. IFC's approval in FY86 of an equity
investment in Societ6 Industrielle de Textiles (SITEX) would help privatize an
existing state-owned textile mill.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
26.      Urbanization Patterns. Tunisia is a rapidly urbanizing country, with
an urban population accounting for about 53 percent of its total population of
about 7.5 million. Urban population has grown by 3.7 percent per year since
1975, and is projected at over 6 million in the year 2,000. This rapid
increase in the past decade is due to a relatively high natural population
growth (2.6 percent), the return of migrant workers from abroad, and
rural-urban migration. Although Tunis still receiTes the largest number of
migration flo-ws, it has a much lower population growth than the rapidly
urbanizing North-West and Center-West Governorates.
27.      The high rate of urban population growth has strained the public
sector's ability to provide shelter and basic urban services to the major
cities, and the 125 agglomerations of 5,000 or more inhabitants. Public
housing, which accounted for about 20 percent of the addition to the urban
housing stock since 1975, was provided at high cost in terms of investment and
direct subsidies. More important, however, was the public sector's inability
to provide, in a coordinated and timely manner, enough urban infrastructure to
meet the demand for serviced land. This resulted in the spread of spontaneous
unregulated settlements, on land lacking services and legal titles. The
spread of these predominantly low-income settlements led to inefficient urban
growth patterns and excessive investment requirements for ex post provision of
infrastructure and services.



- 9 -
28.      Institutional Framework.  Tunisia is divided into 23 Governorates
under the supervision of the Ministry of Interior (MOI). At the local level,
in urban areas, authority is vested in municipalities, which are subdivisions
of the Governorates. With few exceptions, municipalities have insufficient
staff, limited management capacity, and little control over their financial
resources. For their operating and investment budgets they rely on direct
Government budgetary allocations, or subsidized loans through the Caisse de
Prrts et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales (CPSCL), a municipal fund
managed oy the Banque de D1veloppement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET), under the
double tutelage of MOI and the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
29.      In August 1984, the Ministry of Housing merged with the Ministry of
Equipment under a Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MOEH), having
jurisdiction for all activities related to shelter as well as for public works
including roads and highways, and for regional planning. To carry its new
responsibilities in the shelter subsector, MOEH has established technical
departments for housing construction, assistance to housing, research and
studies, upgrading and urban renewal, and legal matters. It has under its
control three major public agencies: a land development agency: Agence
Fonciere d'Habitation (AFH); an upgrading and renewal agency: Agence pour la
k&habilitation et la Renovation Urbaine (ARRU); and a national real estate
company: Soci6t6 Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (SNIT). The Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL) is the major national housing savings and
loan agency under the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the technical
tutelage of MOEH. The design, construction, operation and maintenance of
utility networks and services in urban areas are the responsibility of
national utility companies attached to different Ministries: Soci6te
Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE) under the
Ministry of Agriculture, for water supply and distribution; Office National
d'AsEainissement (ONAS) under MOER, for urban sewerage; and Societe Tunisienne
d'Electricite et de Gaz (STEG) under the Ministry of Energy and Mines, for
power production and distribution.
30.      Urban Poverty.  About 10 percent of Tunisia's urban population lives
below the Bank-defined absolute poverty threshold, estimated in 1984 at TD 80
per household/month, with an average household size of 5.3 persons. This
represents a considerable improvement over the 1977 figure of about 20
percent. However, the access of low-income groups to housing and basic
infrastructure services remains a matter of major social concern, especially
as real wages have declined in real terms in recent years.
31.      Urban and Housing Issues.  Intense construction activity,
particularly since 1980, increased housing stock at an annual average rate of
4 percent, to 1.3 million dwellings in 1984, of which 55 percent in urban
areas. Housing conditions improved during 1980-1984: rudimentary housing
decreased from 13 percent to 9 percent, and one room dwellings from 31 percent
to 21 percent of all housing units. About 50 percent of all dwellings built
since 1975 bypassed urban development regulations, and were undertaken by the
informal sector in areas lacking adequate utility services and community
facilities, and relying on self-help and low-cost construction methods.
According to the most optimistic projections, housing construction by the
public and formal private sectors will fall short of the estimated housing
demand throughout the decade. Since the gap will be filled by informal,
unregulated construction, it is essential that preventive action be undertaken



- 10 -
through the increase of suitably located serviced land, at prices affordable
to the poorest segments of the population, which constitute the majority of
new arrivals in the urban areas. Rent control regulations apply only to
housing built prior to 1970, representing a small percentage of stock. The
Government is aware of the distortions created by the controls-and intends to
reduce them.
32.      Access to basic utility services has improved considerably in recent
years in most urban areas. STEG's electricity network covers about 97 percent
of urban areas, while SuiRFE 1s distributing water to 80 percent of the urban
population through housenold connections, and 10 percent through standpipes.
Despite an ambitious and successful program, ONAS, a relatively new
organization, has only been able to provide sewerage services to about 55
percent of urban areas to date. The gap between water and sewerage
availability aggravates environmental problems. Triggered by the recognition
of associated health hazards, solid waste collection has been recently
improving considerably in city centers. Although overall housing conditions
and access to basic utility services have substantially improved in recent
years, supply of infrastructure and urban services is still poor in the urban
periphery and in rapidly expanding urban areas, and there is little
coordination between the various responsible agencies. A feature of the
proposed project is to improve these agencies' efficiency and their
coordination, and to provide the financing to extend their services in
expanding urban areas (see para. 53).
33.      Government Policy.  Until the mid-1970s, the Government response to
the growth of spontaneous, under-served settlements consisted mainly of slum
clearance and subsidized rehousing schemes for displaced families. SNIT, the
main operator of public housing construction, created in 1957, expanded
rapidly; it applied high standards unrelated to its prospective clients'
financial ability or willingness to pay; only recently it has become more
responsive to market demands, and started building at lower costs and
standards. The magnitude of the housing problem led to the creation of AFH
and CNEL in 1973 and 1974, respectively; however, these agencies did not
address the fundamental problem of providing affordable land and
infrastructure in the rapidly growing informal settlements in the urban
peripheries.
34.     With the priority given to investments in productive sectors, and the
objective of containing investments in housing, the Sixth Plan allocated TD 1
billion, or 12.5 percent of total investments, for the construction of 160,000
housing units. However, by end-1983, these investments were projected to
reach TD 1.5 billion or 16.6 percent of total investments by 1986. There was
Government concern that housing was taking too great a share of total
investments. The Bank recommended, and the Government intends to pursue as a
strategy during the Seventh Plan (1987-1991), to reduce public investment in
housing. Priority wiLl be attached to upgrading under-served settlements
through the provision of basic infrastructure, leaving the major part of
investments in housing to private initiative, accompanied by suitable
financing targeted to low-income groups. This would help mobilize domestic
resources, and utilize the potential of the informal housing sector.  Savings
could be achieved by gradually lowering subsidies and building standards, and
instituting full-cost pricing and recovery and more efficient coordination and
provision of services. A number of these measures have already been agreed
upon and the proposed project addresses these issues.



- 11 -
35.      The Bank's Role in the Sector.  Since 1966, the Bank has maintained a
close sector dialogue with the Tunisian authorities. During the 1970s, under
the Fifth Plan (1977-1981), the Second Urban Development Project and similar
USAID operations laid the foundation for new and more rational housing
policies consisting of upgrading squatter settlements instead of demolishing
them, developing low-cost serviced sites, and starting the recovery of the
cost of infrastructure and improvement works from beneficiaries. The 1983
Housing Sector Review (Report No. 4013 of August 1, 1983) represented a major
contribution to the formulation of the Sixth Plan's housing policies and
programs. It identified the lack of serviced land as the major constraint to
balanced urban growth, and stressed the need for improving services in
spontaneous settlements, for efficiency of the sector's institutions, and for
reducing subsidies and ensuring cost recovery. The Institutional Housing
Sector Review (Report No. 5199 of July 18, 1984) provided a framework for the
reform of the housing finance system; its main findings were that housing
investments during the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) came mostly from private
savings, institutional finance representing only 37 percent of these
investments, with CNEL as the largest provider of housing finance. The report
elaborated a strategy to strengthen CNEL and gradually transform it into a
housing bank, by modifying its structure and diversifying its activities and
product. The proposed strategy implied a sector-wide review of deposit and
lending interest rates, an extension of maturities, and a study of the merits
of contractual versus open banking schemes.
36.      The Bank's recommendations have been well received by the Tunisian
Government, which intends to proceed with their implementation progressively,
through a phased approach. The Bank is providing assistance in defining the
specific reform measures to be introduced in the Seventh Plan. Part of the
envisaged reforms, including increases in interest rates in housing lending,
and in deposits for contractual savings, have been introduced in the course of
1985-1986. The proposed project supports the continuation and broadening of
reform measures.
37.      Experience with Past Lending.  Past urban lending activities included
two urban transport and two shelter operations. The first operation, the
Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project (Loan 937-TUN and
Credit 432-TUN of 1973: $11 million) improved traffic conditions in Tunis,
renewed and expanded the bus fleet of the Tunisian National Transport Agency,
and constructed a suburban railway. It supported the establishment of the
District of Tunis, the first regional planning authority in the country. The
Project Completion Report (No. 5013 dated March 27, 1984) concluded that the
Municipality of Tunis carried out a larger than planned public transport and
traffic improvement program; however, it fell short of meeting management
improvement targets. Continued support under follow-up projects resulted in
improvements in several municipal departments. The District was influential
in its early years in gtiding policies related to low-income housing, solid
waste management and spatial patterns of development of Greater Tunis.
However, its performance fell short of expectations, because of insufficient
Government support. The Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1705-TUN of
1979: $19 million, which was closed on December 31, 1985; an amount of $4.0
million was cancelled in 1984 mainly because of the US dollar appreciation,
and about $1.0 million will remain undisbursed by the closing of the project
accounts in June 1986 and be cancelled) included upgrading and site servicing
in low-income settlements in Tunis and Sfax, a solid waste collection and



- 12 -
disposal operation in Greater Tunis, a line of credit for small-scale
businesses, and technical assistance to the Central Project Unit within MOI.
This Unit was later transferred to MOER to constitute its upgrading and urban
renewal department. Technical assistance also strengthened the Municipalities
of Tunis and Sfax, which geared up well for project execution. The solid
waste collection and disposal operation, initially delayed as a result of
difficulties in establishing an executing agency, is now executed well with
ONAS in charge. Measures were also taken resulting in improved coordination
between the various agencies involved in tbe project, and more effective cost
recovery procedures were introduced.
38.      The on-going Third Urban Development Project (Loan 2223-TUN of i983:
$25 million, of which $3.4 million was disbursed as of May 31, 1986) includes
upgrading in four settlements, and site servicing in three of these, a pilot
program of upgrading and reconstruction in the Medina of Tunis, and credit for
plot acquisition and housing. Three of the five project sites are in Greater
Tunis, and two in the Northwest area. Most of the major civil works
contracts, representing about $13.5 million of loan commitments, have been
awarded. The low disbursement level is due to delays in the start of works
and the appreciation of the US dollar. Under this project, ARRU is developing
into an efficient autonomous agency, with broad powers and capacity to
coordinate urban renewal and upgrading activities. The fourth project would
entrust ARRU with larger responsibilities and increased autonomy for project
preparation and appraisal. A Second Urban Transport Project (Loan 2429-TUN of
1984: $33 million), which became effective in June 1985, will improve the
Greater Tunis highway system, and provide for bypasses to the city center; it
also aims at improving the Sfax regional transport company, and addresses
policy issues related to traffic parking management, and the potential of the
private sector to provide transport services. While the civil works and
traffic and transport policy components are now, after a delay because of the
late effectiveness, progressing, the Sfax regional transport company component
has not been started because of financial and managerial constraints, and
discussions on this component's execution are underway.
39.      In the next five years, the Bank's urban lending operations will be
directed to municipal development, shelter, and the strengthening of the
institutions involved in the sector. A Bank Municipal Finance and Management
Study may lead to a municipal project involving the strengthening of CPSCL.
In the shelter subsector, we would continue assistance in improving policies
related to land management and development and adequate supply of suitably
located serviced land at prices affordable to low-income groups; providing
expanded and more efficient urban services in unregulated and under-served
settlements; and further strengthening of key sector institutions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The proposed project was identified in January 1983, and prepared by
the Government with Bank assistance during 1983/84. It was appraised in
October 1984 and April 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from
June 2 to June 6, 1986. The Tunisian Delegation was led by Mr. Ben Ali of the
Ministry of Planning, and included representatives of the Ministries of
Finance and Economy and Interior, and of ARRU, AfH and CNEL. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5444, entitled Republic of Tunisia - Fourth Urban
Development Project, dated June 9, 1986, is being distributed separately to



- 13 -
the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and the project are
listed in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report and in
Annex III. A map of Tunisia showing identified project sites is attached.
41.      Proiect Obiectives and Description.  The objectives of the proposed
project are to improve shelter and urban services in low-income under-served
settlements; develop serviced land affordable to low-income households; and
strengthen key institutions responsible for upgrading operations, land
development, and the provision of shelter, and improve their coordination. As
part of a long-term national program, it would extend upgrading and
site-servicing operations across the country. The project would consist of:
(i) an upgrading component which would include land acquisition, compensation
or rehousing of households affected by demolitions, regularization of
occupancy status, and construction or extension of infrastructure networks and
community facilities; (ii) a site servicing component including
infrastructure works, and subdivision and servicing of land for housing and
community facilities; and (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the
management capacity of AFH. The assistance also includes the provision of
computer equipment to both AFH and to the Direction des Collectivit4s Locales
in the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The Bank would finance part of the
cost of the upgrading and site servicing operations (inter alia through
budgetary allocations for infrastructure works and community facility
construction) (see para. 53), and extend loans to beneficiaries for house
construction in serviced areas, and for house construction on in-fill plots
and house improvements in upgraded areas. Two pipelines of upgrading and site
servicing subprojects have been identified. ARRU has already identified 18
sites for upgrading, for an estimated cost of about $40 million, and AFH has
already identified 20 sites for servicing for a total cost of about $26.8
million. For 16 of the upgrading sites, engineering studies are already
completed. For the site servicing component, land for all sites has been
acquired and subdivision plans completed; most subdivision plans have already
been approved by the municipalities. The Bank loan would only finance
subprojects that meet agreed eligibility criteria. As this is the first urban
project in Tunisia taking a program approach, there would be no free limit for
eligibility. Approval by the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for
each subproject. The final commitment date for subprojects would be December
31, 1989.
42.      Upgrading Component.  ARRU would act on behalf of the municipalities
as the executing agency, and would liaise with the Bank on all matters related
to this component. Established in 1981 as an autonomous body, ARRU was given
responsibility and broad powers to coordinate urban renewal and upgrading
activities. All ministries and national utility companies involved in the
urban sector are represented on its board. ARRU has attracted and retained a
highly qualified staff of professionals, and established itself as the lead
agency for upgrading activities. It has a technical department of 12
engineers/architects, and well-staffed departments of finance, legal matters
and socio-economic studies. At end-1985, ARRU's total assets amounted to TD
9.9 million of which about 66 percent represented works in progress. Its
relatively high short-term debt is due to ARRU's role as an institution
implementing works for its clients. By the end of 1985, ARRU's financial
situation was satisfactory; unlike 1983, 1984 and 1985 showed a small profit,
a trend that is expected to continue in the future. ARRU's resources come
from budgetary allocations, and from fees for its services to the Government
and the municipalities.



- 14 -
43.      Under the proposed project, ARRU would expropriate and/or acquire the
land to be upgraded, and compensate or rehouse people displaced by
demolitions. It would prepare the necessary studies and bid documents,
coordinate with the ministries, and enter into agreements with the
municipalities, contractors and utility companies. Model agreements between
ARRU and the municipalities, and between ARRU and the utility companies were
reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. For each upgrading subproject,
the signing of an agreement between ARRU and the municipality concerned,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a subproject eligibility criteria; the
signing of the agreements between ARRU and the utility companies (ONAS, SONEDE
and STEG) would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank Loan . To ensure
ARRU's ability to initially cope with its increased responsibilities under the
project, the Government would ensure that ARRU would continue to employ, until
June 30, 1987, two consultants as urban planner and engineer, respectively,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
44.      As under the Second and Third Urban Development Projects, CPSCL would
be responsible for channelling project funds, including proceeds of the Bank
loan, to municipalities for the upgrading operations. Established in 1975,
CPSCL serves as the intermediary for channelling Government long-term,
low-interest loans to municipalities for community facilities and
infrastructure projects. It extends two types of loans: at 2 percent for up
to 20 years including two years of grace for non-income earning projects, and
at 4 percent for up to 10 years including four years of grace for
income-generating projects. CPSCL has a Board of Directors made up of
representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Economy and Interior and the
Tunisian Towns' Confederation, but it has no staff of its own; the management
of its resources is handled by BDET. It was agreed during negotiations that
the BDET-CPSCL Management Agreement signed in 1979 would be maintained during
the execution of the proposed project. CPSCL's resources come from Government
appropriations and loan repayments; its spread is all profit, and is
capitalized. At end-1984, its total assets amounted to TD44.5 million.
CPSCL's financial operations are overall satisfactory; however, this
institution is not using its considerable borrowing capacity and potential
leverage. As its role increases, there will be a need to expand its
operations and strengthen its management. Also, its current administrative
situation and lending policies have to be overhauled to allow effective
financial autonomy, expansion and growth. As this is directly related to the
administrative and financial situation of the municipalities, a Bank municipal
finance and management study will review CPSCL's role and recommend needed
reforms.
45.       The main eligibility criterion for CPSCL loans to municipalities is
a debt ceiling set at 15 percent of the municipality's operating budget.
Draft model agreements between CPSCL and municipalities under the upgrading
component, establishing the cost and the terms and conditions of subloans,
were reviewed during negotiations. These agreements would be executed after
the approval by the Bank of each subproject. The Government has during
negotiations agreed to take the necessary measures to authorize eligible
municipalities to borrow from CPSCL.
46.      Site Servicing Component.  AFH, the executing agency for this
component, was established in 1973 as a non-profit, self-financing institution
to develop serviced land for housing. It has departments for administration



- 15 -
and finance, studies, technical matters and real estate, well staffed with
about 30 professionals including 15 engineers. By end-1985, it had acquired
about 4,350 hectares of land mostly in and around Tunis. However, AFH has
recently started operating in other cities, and 48 percent of the 800 hectares
it recently acquired are outside the capital area. APE's land stock
represents a considerable asset, which is currently undervalued because the
land is not priced at its replacement cost; it is priced and sold at cost of
acquisition and servicing, plus a charge for overhead and administrative
expenses. Full payment in advance is required for individual lots.
Comuercial lots are sold to the highest bidder after servicing. For real
estate developers, terms and conditions are negotiable. AFH requests 60
percent as downpayment upon approval of sale, 30 percent at start of work, and
10 percent when the land title is transferred. About 70 percent of AFH's
resources come from advance payments. Its equity capital has not increased
since its establishment. However, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a plan for the conversion of AFH debt to the Government into
equity will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1987 for review and comment,
and, after taking into consideration the Bank's comments, will be executed.
47.      AFE would prepare detailed financial and economic feasibility
studies, and technical and bid documents for each subproject, for appraisa. by
CNEL prior to Bank review and approval. It would also participate in the site
servicing component, contributing in land equity, studies and administrative
fees and services. It would establish the sale prices of plots, and, in
conjunction with CNEL and the municipalities, would select beneficiaries.
AFE's land sale policies do not allow auction, selling for profit or setting
different lot prices according to size, use or location; this has prevented
cross-subsidization and adequate margins. The regular large size of its plots
(between 250 and 650m3), and the required substantial advance payments in
cash, excluded low-income groups and buyers with limited saving capacity; it
also forced moderate income purchasers to delay construction on their acquired
plots for several years. In addition, because of its limited capital, APE has
been unable to accumulate sufficient land reserves to adequately respond to
private and public demand. Reform measures will be introduced under the
proposed project to address these constraints. APE would be required to
service and sell smaller plots (between 80 and 160m1) and establish a plot
pricing system that would allow the replacement of its land stock, and ensure
a continuous flow of funds without Government subsidies. Plot sale prices
would include the actualized price of the serviced land, financial charges,
and the cost of administrative studies and other overhead incurred by AFH.
The Government has agreed to take measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to
ensure appropriate plot pricing and cross-subsidization benefitting smaller
plots, and the introduction of these two measures would be a condition of
disbursement for the site servicing component of the project. Also, with
support provided under the technical assistance program, AFE would improve its
administrative and accounting procedures, and introduce a computerized
management system.
48.      CNEL would manage Government and Bank funds for the site servicing
component; and would contribute about $6.0 million equivalent to the
financing of this component from its own resources.   Established in 1974,
CNEL is today a large, autonomous, well-managed public savings and loan
agency, with some 540 employees. It has been successful in mobilizing
domestic resources through contractual savings plans linked to housing
construction loans. CNEL subscribers may borrow up to twice the amount saved



- 16 -
plus accumulated interest, with an established ceiling of TD 13,000. Savings
contracts periods are either 4 or 5 years, at the subscriber's choice,
entitling them to a 10 or 15 years maturity. CNEL also manages the Fonds pour
la Promotion du Lo2ement des Salaries (FOPROLOS), a Government fund that
grants housing loans to wage earners whose wages are up to 1 1/2 times the
minimum wage (currently about TD 90 per month). Interest rates on deposits
were raised in March 1986 to 6.75 percent per annum. CNEL also raised its
interest rate for lending to 8.25 percent p.a. Though its initial target was
only to attract 8,000 savings contracts annually, the number of contracts is
well over this goal, though declining inter alia because of bottlenecks in
housing and serviced land production. By the end of 1985, the balance sheet
showed TD 168.9 million of savings balances by savers.
49.      CNEL also finances SNIT and other public and private developers,
which cater to the housing needs of upper and middle income population
groups. At end-1985, its total assets amounted to TD 319.1 million. As CNEL
has no capital of its own, its debt to equity ratio is not a meaningful
indicator. Its resources, which come from savings contracts and the
management of FOPROLOS, are not all converted into loans, because of
bottlenecks in the supply of developed land and low-cost housing. This
results in considerable liquidity. At end-1984, only 66 percent of resources
from savings contracts, and 58 percent from FOPROLOS resources were converted
into loans; the balance was used to finance SNIT and other developers. It
has, at present, a comfortable spread, and has consistently shown profit. As
long as deposits largely exceed withdrawals and account cancellations, CNEL's
financial balance will remain sound. This depends inter alia on the supply of
developed land to its contractual savers.
50.      Under the proposed project, CNEL would partially finance the site
servicing operations of AEI, and provide loans for plot acquisition and house
construction on sites serviced by AnE, as well as for house construction on
in-fill plots and house improvements in areas upgraded by ARRU. It would
appraise subprojects to be executed by AFE, prior to their submission to the
Bank for approval.
51.      Technical Assistance would improve the administrative and accounting
procedures of APR and the management of its land stock, introduce a
computerized management system, and provide the required expert services and
computer equipment. It would include 2.75 man-years of consultant services in
land management, public administration, and computer science. AFH has agreed
to employ the required consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. In addition, computer equipment would be furnished to the Direction
des Collectivites Locales in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which
supervises the municipalities' budgets, so as to improve its data collection
and management.
52.      Proiect Cost and Financing Plan.  The total cost would be about $67.4
million equivalent, of which $30.2 million (44.8 percent) in foreign
exchange. The loan would cover the full foreign exchange cost of the project,
and would be made to the Government at the standard variable interest rate,
with a repayment period of 20 years including three years of grace. The local
cost contribution ($37.2 million) would be provided by the Government ($24.2



- 17 -
million) and two of the agencies involved in the project: CNEL ($6 million)
and AFH ($7 million). An amount of $0.6 million has been allocated for
technical assistance. These amounts do not include taxes and duties from
which the project; is exempt. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk, and the interest rato risk.
53.      Allocation of Funds.  To finance the upgrading component, an amount
of $7.52 million out of the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to CPSCL by
means of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. For the site servicing component,
$14.53 million of the loan amount would be managed by CNEL on behalf of the
Government, through a Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL.
Part of this amount ($7.85 million) would be onlent to AFH through a Financi-=
Agreement, and the balance ($6.68 million) to beneficiaries for house
construction. An amount of $8.15 million would be channelled by the
Government through budgetary allocations to the ministries and agencies
responsible for the provision of infrastructure and community facilities.
This amount includes $0.6 million of technical assistance to AFE. The signing
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CPSCL, the
Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL and the Financing
Agreement between APH and CNEL would be conditions of effectiveness of the
Bank loan.
54.      Onlending Terms.  For the upgrading component a total of about $12.9
million equivalent of combined Government and Bank funds would be onlent to
CESCL at 2 percent for Government funds (4 percent for income generating
operations) for 20 years including 2 years of grace, and, for Bank funds, at
the cost of borrowing at the date of the Bank loan agreement, for a term of O
years, including 3 years of grace. CPSCL would then onlend these funds to
municipalities at its regular terms and conditions for Government funds, and
at cost for Bank funds. This is expected to produce a weighted average
interest rate of about 6 percent. CNEL would manage on behalf of the
Government a total amount of about C26.2 million of combined Bank and
Government funds, of which it would onlend about $13.5 million to finance AFE
for its site servicing works, at 11 percent interest p.a. for a maximum term
of 3 years, and about $12.7 million for house construction loans in both
upgraded and serviced areas at an interest rate of 8.25 percent p.a. for those
beneficiaries earning more than 1 1/2 times the minimum wage and of 7 percent
p.a. for those beneficiaries earning equal to or less than 1 1/2 times the
minimum wage, in each case for 20 years, with two years of grace. After
completion of the site servicing works, CNEL would consolidate short-term
financing of AFH works into plot acquisition loans. To acquire a plot on a
serviced site, the beneficiary would make a total downpayment of 30 percent of
the plot price, of which 10 percent would be paid at the time of reservation,
and 20 percent in installments during the execution of site servicing works.
The balance would be financed at the time of plot delivery, through a loan
from CNEL at the above terms.
55.      Interest rates under the project are compatible with or above the
inflation rates estimated at about 7 percent for the coming years. They take
into account the capacity to pay of municipalities, and of the low-in._.ome
target population. The Government is in the process of reviewing further the
overall structure of interest rates. It has agreed to review with the Bank,
by December 1 of each year, the interest rates charged in the housing sector
and to take all necessary measures to ensure that financial intermediaries



- 18 -
apply interest rates sufficient to cov2r at least the cost of capital and earn
a spread sufficient to cover their operating cost. With Bank assistance, the
Government is designing further reform measures in the housing sector to be
introduced progressively during the Seventh Plan period (1987-1991). These
reforms would include institutional measures for the agencies involved in the
sector.
56.      Procurement.  Civil works for upgrading and site servicing would be
dispersed over about 40 sites across the country; they would be contracted
separately for each category of works over three years, and executed and
administered by different agencies and utility companies over a period of
about 5 years. As it would be impractical to aggregate the contracts into
packages large enough to attract international contractors, all procurement
would be carried out through local competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines. LCB procedures have been reviewed in the Bank; they
are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project. However, some exceptions were required to make them
consistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines and were agreed upor during
negotiations.
57.      Computer equipment for AFH and the Direction des Collectivites
Locales in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, costing about $70,000 in
total, would be procured on the basis of quotations from three qualified
suppliers. SONEDE and STEG would execute the water and electrical works
according to their procedures. They would call for tenders to select
contractors through LCB or execute their works by force account through their
contracts with ARRU and AFH. The works to be executed by force account are
unsuitable for competitive bidding as their quantities cannot be defined
accurately in advance; also, for ease of maintenance, the material must be
compatible with the existing utility company stocks. These companies have the
competence and experience to ensure rapid, efficient, and least cost execution
of water and electrical works under the project.
58.      The large number of small contracts (300), their similarity, and the
capability of the Borrower's agencies to procure efficiently would make the
prior review of most of these contracts unnecessary. Only contracts exceeding
$1 million would be reviewed by the Bank prior to award. All other contracts
would be reviewed by the Bank after their award, and prior to the first
application for withdrawal.
59.      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of $30.2 million equivalent is
expected to be committed over a period of 3 years. Disbursement would start
in calendar year 1986 (FY87), and would be extended over 9 years. The Closing
Date is December 31, 1994. Disbursement for each item will be as follows: 58
percent of total expenditures for civil works; 50 percent of total
expenditures for rehousing costs; 54 percent of total expenditures for house
construction and improvement loans; and 100 percent of total expenditures for
technical assistance. The Bank would not finance the cost of land,
administrative and overhead costs, or engineering studies. Disbursement would
be made on the basis of standard Bank disbursement procedures with the
exception of house construction loans, and expenditures below $20,000. For
these items, statements of expenditures would be required. The Borrower would
retain all documentation to support the disbursements, and will keep records
of all expenditures for examination by Bank missions.



- 19 -
60.      An amiunt of $0.4 million for retroactive financing, covering
expenditures after July 1, 1986, would be provided for rehousing costs
incurred for families displaced as a result of the need to demolish houses for
infrastructure works in upgrading areas. A revolving fund of $1 million would
be established in the Banque Centrale de Tunisie (BCT) to cover all
disbursements, and would be replenished against withdrawal applications.
Documentation to support all withdrawala and replenishment of this account
will be kept by BCT, and audited annually.
61.      Reporting. Accounts and Audits.  Accounting systems for CPSCL, CNEL,
AFX and ARRU would follow the Tunisian Plan Comptable Commercial, which
adequately provides for recording of project expenditures. Each institution
has agreed to keep separate accounts for project-related financial
transactions, and CNEL, AFH and ARRU will in addition to its project accounts
have its annual accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; all will submit these accounts to the Bank within 6 months after the end
of each fiscal year. ARRU would prepare and consolidate accounts, and carry
responsibility for monitoring, coordination, and evaluation for the upgrading
component. AFE would submit to CNEL the details of the site servicing
expenditures; CNEL would consolidate AFE accounts and would keep accounts
related to all house construction and plot acquisition loans.
62.      Cost Recovery.  About 80 percent of total project costs would be
recovered as follows: for the upgrading component, cost of on-site
infrastructure works would be recovered by the municipalities through
improvement charges under the Contribution des Riverains, a frontage tax
system, over a period of 20 years at an interest rate which shall cover the
cost of their borrowings from CPSCT. These terms would be reflected in the
decrees establishing the frontage tax for all municipalities concerned.
Utility connection costs would be recovered through utility tariffs. Cost of
land acquisition associated with the regularization of ownership, and cost of
land for the in-fill plots in upgrading areas, would be recovered through
direct sales. For the site servicing component, cost of land and servicing
would be recovered through sales. The pricing policy for land sales would
ensure both affordability and effective cost recovery.
63.      Selection of Beneficiaries.  For the upgrading component,
beneficiaries for the in-fill plots would be selected by a committee
representing ARRU and the municipality concerned. First priority would be
given to the families whose houses have been demolished, second priority to
families in the site whose houses are condemned for sanitary ox safety
reasons, and third priority to families who owa no house and who would be
displaced to reduce overcrowding. Other beneficiaries would be selected on
the basis ef application date, among families with income of up to two times
the minimm wage and who own no house.  For the serviced sites, a selection
committee including AEH, CNEL and the municipality concerned would select the
beneficiaries. An upper limit of 30 percent of the lots would be reserved for
CNEL and FOPROLOS subscribers. First priority would be given on the basis of
application date, to families with income of up to two times the minimum wage
and taking into account the family situation. All beneficiaries would be
required to own no house, and document that they have sufficient income to
afford the purchase of the plot.



- 20 -
64.      Income Profiles, Affordability Analysis and Urban Poverty Impact.
The 1984 income distribution of the urban population of Tunisia was estimated
on the basis of the 1980 Household Consumption Survey, and the increase of
private consumption per capita during 1980-1984, assuming no major changes in
the urban income distribution pattern. The estimated 1984 overall median
urban household monthly income is TD 183. In the identified upgrading sites,
it averages TD 93, and ranges between TD 55 and TD 140. According to the
eligibility criteria for acquiring serviced sites, monthly charges should not
exceed 15 percent of the median monthly income, or 33 percent of this income
when combined with a house construction loan. Overall, about 38 percent of
the beneficiaries would be those living below the Bank-defined absolute
poverty threshold, estimated in 1984 at about TD 80 per household/month; they
would benefit from 36 percent of the project costs. With regard to the
upgrading component, 38 percent of the beneficiaries would be urban poor and
would benefit from 39 percent of the component's costs. With regard to the
sites serviced by AFH, 37 percent of the plots would be affordable by the
urban poor, who would benefit from 30 percent of this component's cost.
65.      The average monthly improvement charges for beneficiaries of upgraded
sites would be TD 2.7 per household, or 3.1 percent of the monthly average
median income. Even if this percentage is increased to 8 percent, improvement
charges become affordable by an average of 96 percent of beneficiaries. The
cost of the smallest in-fill plot option, together with a construction loan,
would be affordable by the families to be rehoused, and would represent no
more than 25 percent of their monthly income. Monthly repayments for the
acquisition of the smallest AFH plot (80mZ) would be affordable by 95
percent of all urban households (92 percent of all urban households for such
plot acquisition combined with a housing construction loan). For these
households, the first (and largest) portion of the downpayment required upon
the start of works (10 percent of the plot price) would not exceed 2 months'
income.
66.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the combined subprojects
currently in the pipelines is estimated at 20 percent. It is expected that
the rate of return of all individual subprojects financed under the loar would
be within the same range. Quantifiable benefits are based on estimates of
increased renta; values for housing as a result of upgrading, and higher land
values for newly serviced land. Indirect project benefits to neighboring
areas would also be reflected in the increased rental and land values, but
since their measurement is difficult they have not been included in the
benefit stream. Sensitivity analyses show that either a 20 percent increase
in costs, or a 20 percent decrease in benefits would drop the ERR to about 16
and 15 percent, respectively; a simultaneous 10 percent increase in cost and
10 percent decrease in benefits would drop it to 15.6 percent, and a one-year
delay in benefits would result in an ERR of 16.6 percent.
67.      Proiect Benefits and Risks.  The project would assist the Tunisian
Government in alleviating the problems associated with poorly serviced
communities, and would extend the benefits of upgrading such communities to
practically every region of the country. It would also provide plots at
prices affordable to low-income groups, thus helping to resolve one of the
main constraints affecting the housing market. The project would continue a
process of strengthening the overall institutional framework in the urban
sector. During project preparation, both ARRU and AFH prepared upgrading and
land development programs throughout the country; the implementation of these



- 21 -
programs would establish these agencies as the principal instruments for
developing, executing and monitoring well established national programs in
their respective areas of competence. The project would implement one of the
major recommendaticas of the Housing Sector Review by extending CNEL's
activities to include the financing of land development and plnt acquisition.
The project is geared towards low-income segments of the population. It would
benefit directly about 150,000 persons, of which 90,000 from improvement of
urban services in t1sir current residence, and 60,000 from acquisition of
serviced plots at low, affordable prices. The population of settlements and
owners of vacant land adjacent to the project areas would also benefit
indirectly from their proximity to improved services and environment.
68.      In the past, AFH catered only to middle and upper-income groups, and
developed large lots, relying on future beneficiaries for prefinancing its
operations. Under the project, AFH would introduce changes in its
administrative and management procedures, adjust to a new financing system,
and develop amaller, affordable lots to cater to the needs of low-income
groups. The risk that these objectives may not be fully attained is reduced
by the willingness of AFE's management to adjust its policies, the steps it
has already taken to change its mode of operation, and the support provided
ander the project through the technical assistance program. There is also a
risk of delay in implementation, attached to the heavy administrative load
implied by the large number and geographical dispersion of project sites.
However, the experience gained under the Third Urban Development Project, the
reinforcement of AtRU's staff, and the technical assistance program to AFH
would improve the capacity of these institutions to cope with their increased
responsibilities.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Lean.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 9, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                              ANNEX I
Page I of 7
TUEst..                -WSOCIA  INIECAT    DATA SHUET
TUNISIA                             RXFIECxE mug (WICIWED AVERAGES) 
MOST                    (MOST RECENT STRUT!) lb
RCENT            MIDDLE tINcomE          IDOI T=ti
1960kL    19701k uTimgTrJb       N. APIECA & KID EAST     LAT. AMRIECA  CAR
AREA   IUUUD 3. U)
TOTAL                             163.6       163.6      L63.6
AGRtICULTURAL                      68.8       70.3        81.4
GNP  R CIU1  (M)                       ..         ..       1290.0            1134.9                   1873.9
CKILOGRAMS OFIL 0 qUVLELrNT)      I19.0      230.0       96.0             623.9                    993.6
EMUTION AN VTAL UTATICU
POPULATl0,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   4221.0     3127.0      686.0
URAN POPULATTON (2 OF TOTAL)       36.0       43.5        53.6              *9.0                     67.7
POPULATION PROJCTIDNS
POPULATIOK L  EA  2000 (MILL)                           10.0
STATIONARY POPLATION (MILL)                             19.0
POPULATIOH IOIE I                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. t.                       25.5       31.3        42.1              37.6                     48.0
PER SQ. Dt. ACRt. LAND           61.4       72.9        82.4             470.1                     91.1
POPULATION AC STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 Us                         43.3       46.2        40.3              43.3                     38.3
15-64 YES                        52.4       49.9       53.7               53.0                     57.1
65 AND ABOE                       4.1        3.7         3.8               3.3                      4.2
POPULATION CRJI RATE (2)
TOTAL                             1.8 /c      1.9 /c     2.3               Z.8                      2.4
7UAII                             3.2        3.8         4.0               4.4                      3.6
CRUDE  XRTII RATE PER THOUS)       48.9       40.6        32.6              40.0                     30.9
CRUDE DEATa RATE (PER T7OMS)       21.0       14.6         9.1              11.5                      8.0
GROSS REPiODICTION RATE             3.5        3.2         2.4               2.8                      2.0
FAMILY PLAINItIC
ACCEPTORS. ANtUAL CTUS)           ..        29.2       180.9 /d
USERS (C OF MARRIK  1EN*-)                              41.0              21.4                     45.3
IOOD AMD NZU
IDWEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      97.0       96.0       128.0              95.1                    109.6
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAI.ORIS (Z OF REAUR.ENTS)       95.0       96.0       111.0             118.2                    113.2
PROTEVIS (GRAIS PER DAY)         59.0       60.0        74.0              77.a                     69.4
OF J;iCa AJNLLAL AND PLSE       13.0       14.0        n.0 Ia            17.8                     34.2
CHILD (ACES I-4) DEATH RAE         36.1       23.9         8.0              12.8                      4.8
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH TEARS)       48.1       54.2        61.5              57.8                     64.8
IANFAST  URT. RATE (PEU THOUS)    157.5      131.0       63.0               96.8                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATS (C10P)
TOTAL                             *-        49.0        70.0              67.2                     65.3
URBA                              ..        92.0        91.0              93.4                     76.5
RURAL                           .           17.0        46.0              45.8                     44.2
ACCESS T0 EXCETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPUATION)
TOTAL                             *-        62.0        56.0 /f           45.9                     56.3
URaN                              ..       100.0        42.0              63.0                     73.4
RURL                              ..        34.0         ..               28.6                     25.5
POPULATION PEat PhlSICIa        10030.0     5930.0      3690.0 If         4331.0                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSIR PERSON              ..       730.0       890.0 o7         1U45.0                    808.2
POP. PER NOSPTAL II0
TOMTL                           410.0      410.0       460.0 Id          621.8                    362.0
URBAN                           230.0      310.0       350.0 r           545.0                    422.0
RURAL                          t010.0 j   1270.0      1230.0 7          2511.3                   2716.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        24.1        25.0 lh           25.7                     27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF IOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         5.1 7i
URBAN                             ..         5.17        .
RURAL                             ..         5.17
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROO
TOTAL                             ..         3.2 /7
URBAN                             ..         2.7 7r
RURAL                             ..         3.6 7
PERCENTAGE OF UJELLIS WMH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..        24. O 7
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURL                              ..         ...



-23-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
_TII                   - SOCUL INDICATORS DATA ISEST
TUNISIA                             REVERNC GROUPS (IIIQTED AVERAGS) ^
:E1ST                    (MOST RECST ESTIMATS) lb
RECENT           MIDDLE INCO1E          MIODDLE T-om
INO        1970l  sTWATR/b    N. AFRICA  A MrD wM          LAT. AMRZCA    CAU
ADJUSTEO   ROLINENT RATIOS
PLIItYV  TOTAL                    66.0      101.0       111.0              89.8                     106.7
ALE                  8U.O        121.0      123.0              10? .7                   108.5
FEMAL                  43.0       80.0        98.0               75.2                    104.6
SECONDART: TOTAL                  12.0       23.0        32.0              42.9                     44.2
ALz                    19.0       33.0        39.0               50.9                     42.7
VfCLW                   5.0        13.0       25.0               34.6                     44.9
VOCATIOHAL tS oW SECONDAIY)         23.5       11.1        23.6               10.0                     13.3
PPIL-TZACH0R RATIO
PRIM                              61.0       47.0        36.0              29.7                      29.9
SUCODAR                           16.0       28.0        19.0              18.8                      16.7
PASNUR  CARS/THOUSAND POP           10.5       13.0         ..               17.6                     46.0
RAOW 1CEIVERS/TEOUSAND O POP        40.3       75.7       166.0              175.9                    328.3
TV RSCKIVSRS/?HOUSAID FM             0.1       14.0        52.2               51.2                    112.4
10SPER (eDAILT GENEAL
IX=IZST`) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            1.6        15.9        40.5              37.2                     81.1
CXriEA ANNUAL ATTENDANC/CAPITA       1.6        ..          1.5               2.4                       2.4
LA   OR
TOTAL LABOR FORCE CTHOUS)         1138.0      1215.0     1770.0
FEMALZ (PERCENT)                  6.0         7.7         8.6              11.0                     23.6
AGRICULTURE (PRCENT)              56.0       50.0        35.0 If           42.4                      31.4
INDUSTRY (PRCENT)                 18.0       21.0        32.0 7F           27.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOMAL                             27.0        23.7       25.7              26.2                      33.5
MALC                              50.2       U.2         46.4               46.2                     51.3
FZiALE                             3.3        3.6         4.6                5.8                     15.9
ECONOMIC DRPENDENCT RATIO            1.8        2.1         1.7               1.6                       1.3
a~m DISTRIrmI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
,RECIVED JS
HIGHEST 52 OI HOUSEHOLDS           ..
nIGCHST 20S OP WOUSEHOLDS         ..
LOCUST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOWEST 4020  HOUSZEOLDS            ..
povm    lRGI CROS
ESTIMATE  ASSOI MOV    INCWM
LEVL (US$ FMB CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        204.0 /a          226.3                    288.3
RURAL                              ..         ..         97.0 7e-         134.0                    185.3
ESSTIMTD RELATIVE POVET  INCM
LVL (USS PEQ CAFITA)
URBAN                              ,,         ..        193.0 /a          431.5                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        193.0o7W           326.0                   359.7
ESTIMATED POP. SELOW ABSOLTE
POEny DCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                              ..         ..         20.0 /a
ERuL                               ..         ..         15.0o              29 Z90
.. MT AVAILABLE
MOT APPLICABLE
N*oTs
/a  The group arape  for each indicator are population- eghted arithmetic mane. Coverage of countrlm
mano Che indicators depends on availablity of data and is not unifors.
/b   Y"%lsa otherisme noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961; "Dat for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; mad data for "tMot Rece gEtimate" betwee  1981 and 1983.
/e  Dme to guigracioe. populatlo. grovth rate is lovwr then rate of natural  acrteaoo; /d 1979; 1/  1977;
/f 1980; Ig 1962; b 1976; It 1966.
.TUZ, 1985



-24-                                                  ANNEX I
- 24 -    Page 3_of 7
DEFnNmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
NoUn: Alihough the daa amredawn from soucesgenerallyjuded the most authonrtive and reliabk. it should asJo be noted thait they mey not benternaiionally
conparatbe beoause of the tack of standardized deftndions and cocpu used by dilerent counaies in coilecting the data. The doa are. nonetheless ueul to
describe orders or magnitude, indicate trends and hiaraerize censin majpr diffefences between countries.
Mte refere  groups are I1) the same country group of the subjecg country and 121 a country group with somewhal higher average incomc lban ihe country
Sroupofhesubjt country (excpt for "High Income Oil Eporners noupwcer-Middle Incomie Nonh Africa tiad Middk East- ischosen bccaule ofstronger
socio-cultiral aiitiel. In the reference yroup data the averages are population weighted arithmetic meant for each indicator and shown only when majorty
orthe cotries in a roup hbuadatn for tht iiscitotw Since the cove orcountrie among the indicators dcpods on the svailability ofdata and is nor uniform.
caution must beexercid in milting average ofone indicator to another. These averae a only usefu in compainng the value ofone tndiator at a ime among
the county and referi  groups.
AREA (thousand sq.kzn.)                                           Crude Birt Rate (per rtohmud) -Number oflive births in the year
Total-Total surfaice area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cude Death Rate (per thonsand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgsikuskWE-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Grs RepiRofetioa Rat-Average number of daughters a woman
tie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present ag-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. caulated by same conversion method as World       fiamily Pmaniici-Accetors, Amnnl fthousandsj-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis). 1983 data,                            ber of acceptors orbirth-control devices underauspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of comwercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Facdy PLa      -LUsrs (percent of  arriied mrwf-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULAInoN AND VITAL STATITCS                                     groups.
Total Pop iakia. Mid-Year (thomasr)-A  of July 1. 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRM ON
and 983 data.
[Urban Pop.sdmla    (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total    Idx of Food Production Per Capita (199-71 - OOJ-Index of per
diffrefnt definiRtions Of urban areasmayaffecto totpar  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populaton: dferent denions of urban areasnay affectcompar-        excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
tpuato PrIojecdeu                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popdation in year 2000-The projction of population for 2000.      excluded); they comprise ceeals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetabkls, Fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar bee  livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertlity rates. monality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capta Suply of C ries (percet ofreqmrnwtsJ -Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  od from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality ates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaemetnt level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In sucb a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popultion Momenum-Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Cpita Spwy of fProtein (gr     per day) -Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
fPbopddo De-iry                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkns.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Potxein Spply frrom Animal and Pue-Protein suppiv
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Pu'pulatiou Age Stdrawe (perceru)-Children (0-14 years). work-    Chdld(ages 1-4) Deark Rate fperthousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopaLutiow Growth Pote (PercentJ.-tarol--Annual growth rates of   from life tables. '960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEAIXH
Popatio  Growtk Rate  ere           aAnnual growth rates          Life Erpectancy at Bith {years}--Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would livc if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-25-                                               ANNEX I
- Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire.  Pupl-eeucher Rurio  primary. and  rtnndarv-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lfr' Mutrtaft Jbe (pr tho*ssnd)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before raching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Access te Si*  Wwr (Prp       of   ai-oti d                   Paseer Crs (per thozosad pp iouj-P.assenger cirs c'm-
N -Numnber of people (total, urba  and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaninated water such as that from protected  *AS  Rkeefiws (per tlsosadpoepalti.u)-All types of receivers
boreholes spings and sanitary wells) s percentages of their respec  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public romtain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within rasonable amcss of tha houw. In rural areas   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accs would inply that the houwfe or members of the
housclhold do not have to spend a disproportionte part of the day  TV Reeies (per Mosta idpopultji-TV receiverS ror broadcast
in fetching the family's water needc                          to generd public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Acce  to Ete  0Di4_  (pecu  of popba          t-iar - .        receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ad rural-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by  in effec.
xcreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  NwsW' Crckteu (per thou-ad popwlationi-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the coflection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human cxcraa and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gencral news.
borne sysm  or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
PopmUla pePr PAWddan-41opulation divided by number of prac-   CixER Annua  Attend,e pfr Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physias qualified from a medical school at university levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PUIUtIOA per N_rsin Pavow-Ibpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
praticing male and femaic graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
pracical nurses and nursng auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
Poalwhm pr Hospital eBd-tot, urb=4 and ronl-Plopulation        TOa Labor Foce (thousaxo6j-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds availabic in pubic and private,nral and         students. etc.. covering population or aU ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospitals are estabishments  various countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pernanndy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov- F.e  (percent-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipatty custodl care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however include health and medicalcenters not pmanendy staffed  Agrihwr (peicatj-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and providc a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Idstry (percet)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Ad.4iour pr Hospial Ae--Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges fromn hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
HOUSNG  _n Ror (prcentJr-oetl. web. audfemle-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Avre Size of Hasehdt (pons pwr l fseJ t)-stota, vrhe,         as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
adrura-A householdconsistsof a groupof inivMduals who share   respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
living quartrs and dteir main meals A boarder or lodger may or  panicipation rates flecting age-sex structure of the population. and
mnay not be uicluded in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Avrae  Nume of lArnaw per Room-_t.L  u,bn. an  wral-          Eeaonmfc DepeudenKy Rad2o-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DLSTRIBUTION
Pferum   of DweEags *it Elerr;ic&v-uota, urban ad rral-       Aercute of Total Dnposablk Incow (boh i cas and ki.i -
Conventional dwellings with elecicity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsed EvAlmeat Ratos                                         The following estimates are vern approximate measures of povertv
Pmwary scdol - total. make and fenale-Gross total, male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroUment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Estiaed Abselute Poperty 1ucoie Lerel USS per caitaJ j-urbm
respective prunary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that incomc level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estiuared Reaie Poverty Incom  Level (LSS per caital-urbn
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and raral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrg's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the countrn. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - totat. male and femal-Computed as abovc,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pr-  E'dma.ed Poplain Below Absolte Poverty Income Level (per-
rnary instrauction provides generl. vocational. or teacher training  cent)-urbar and rual- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are geally excluded.
Vocaional Enro/imea (percent of secandvry-Vocational institu-           Comparalive Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industrial. or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-26-                                          AN* 
Pane 5 of 7
7nITA - EaW   c DWTsI
Axial QmK Date
(at 196D prime)
(milvin US$                       ActuFl                    PM1.       Pmijete
zhicator              at cut pi
199w         1979   1960   1981   192   1983   199       1985     196    1991
NIWBM    A_DLZ
Gron damatic pwuct -/1          7,9W&5       6.6    7.4    5.5    0.1    4.9   5.5       4.5      2.1    3.6
Agdcu1lM                       1059.2     -4.8    9.9    6.5  -10.3    2.5  13.3      1.0    -3.8    2.5
1uaty                         2,41L8      10.8    9.0    6.8    0.5    7.3   3.2       1.1      2.6    3.8
Servic.                       3,411.8      8.     7.7    6.6    2.4    3.9   5.0       4.3      3.9    3.8
Cmaim                           6,387.4      4.0    27    7.4    3.4    6.2   4.8        3.3      1.9    3.0
uM iu.                          2,501.7      6.3    0.9   15.1    1.5    4.3   08    -124        -7.4    3.0
ortofgooaEiz d WS               2,720.7     21.5    0.0    3.5    4.9    L4   2.4        3.0      5.8    4.1
liqmts of goodi N Ws            3,658.3     15.1    4.5   13.0    0.9   -1.8   5.2   -10.0    -1.3    2.3
Gro sasmaml pdtct               8,011.6      6.9    7.9    5.8    0.2    4.6   5.2       3.5      2.2    3.7
Gi.as 1Mdno    p                1,624.2     15.2  -4.7    0.7  -10.1  -1.3   6.7         4.3      3.4    6.2
Pdefl=atr (1980D-                           886  100.0  114  128.1  139.9 149.4   158.9
Etbin   mte                                2.460  2A69  2.025  1.693  1.473 1287    L198
awre of (MP at uedit prices (Z)                       tismt Sapam pa*h mta(Z)
(at awt pr) 2/                                     (at cmtat prie.)
1971    1976    1981      1983    1986      1991   1971-76     1976-81       1066         198691
Gis dometic prdkict /A  100.0   100.0   100.0       0.0   100.0    100.0    7.1           6.1           3.8          3.6
AgricutUre           19.4     17.8    13.7    12.4    14.4    L1.2    6.3              1.6          5.0           2.5
Jmluutry             20.5    25.2    32.0    30.2    29.1    31.2         L6            .9          3.1          3.8
Service              47.1    44.0    41.8    44.0    43.4        43.1    7.1           6.5          4.0          3.8
020RW2a2                80.5    77.3    76.1    80.2    80.8    78.4    8.9               7.4           4.1          3.4
_ ts inieut              21.5    30.7    32.3      2B.8    24.9    23.1    5.9            6.6          -2.2          3.1
eeorts of goods mdFWS   24.1    29.1    41.4    35.4    32.9    34.3          7.1          .5           1.4          2.7
1ports of good. aNFS   26.1    37.0    49.8    44.4         38.6    35.9    U.6          10.8          -1.6          2.0
Cam usiaza pno&ct       99.6    98.7   100.8   101.2    99.7    99.5          7.0         6.6           3.5          3.6
No fw:or i              --0.4    -1.3      0.8      1.2    -0.3    -0.5       8.5         0.3         -24.2        -16.4
(kg. rsticoal aaViZW     19.1    21.4    24.6    21.0    18.9    21.1   -2.3              4.2           1.3          4.3
As Z of MP
(at eajnrt prices)
1976    1981    1983    1984
HM.IC FWLM(
Oirrct zwem                                        26.8    29.3    31.3    32.6
Oarezt epnitnr                                     19.9    21.5    23.1    24.7
Surphs (W) orefit ()                                6.9      7.8      8.1      7.9
capital iadiur                                    11.8    15.3    15.2    16.5
Foaenip figmrirg                                    1.0      1.0      1.7      2.3
1971-76      1976-81      1981-86      1986-91
OIE  fl)AM
G6P per CpiLta guwrth rate (Z)                     5.0          3.6           2.9          l.9
- mR                                               2.7          5.2           89           6.5
margirsav iz aite                                 -0.0           0.1          0.0          0.3
Evort elastcity                                    1.6          1.8         -0.4           0.6
(*) World Bink Atl- MWvdolog
11 GP at  et price aid cmqpmxiat. at ator cost.
/  Projected yea in  ct= pries.
EM        II-C
April 1986
1061S/2



-27-                                             ^AM I
-                                      oM8IA  Zf 7
Aiua   mth Rat.
Aount                                           (at 1910 Prime)
(aLfim Us                           AcUml                         FMl.        Pgoi
at awegn pric)
Jalicatar                   198k             1979   1960   1961   1962   L983   l966       1965       1966   1991
bpqet O   'pede             1,801.0           l9.0  -0.4    4.3  -6.9    3.8    0.7          -0.1        5.8    3.5
Ptrolu                      796.9           22.9    2.2  -7.3  -20.9    0.6  -1.7          -1.0      -8.6  -12.0
Agackule                     92.7            1L4  -31.1   83.5  -38.3  -13.4   59.S       -14.1        9.9    4.0
Odor pdmtil                 102.7             9.3  -18.2   12.4  -I3.8   27.9  -0.9        13.0       13.0   15.5
PHmfactba ir               80.L7            13.3    2.5   13.3  LS    6.4  -1.4           L0        16.5    6.6
poatt of amind              3,232A            15.9   4.5   11.7  -0,9  -2.9    5A           -1L29      -m1    2.0
Fbod                        467.3           17.4  -7.0   29.1  -7.7   20.7    2.6         -22.2      -9.9    4.0
Yero1a                      372.0           62.1    7.9  -6L7  -46.9    3.0    7.3          4.4        9.4   -3.4
Jatimuaijtsodm              969.8           20.2   11.0    3.8   124   -4.6    7.9         -5.8       0l.1   3.4
Cwpitsa Spxd                839.3           -9.6  -2.2   40.9   15.8  -19.5    9.8        -24.8      -4.9    0.3
Odure                       563.9            8.4    6.3    6.6    61   10.8  -3.6         -11.1      -M3T7   2.8
Prie 1nd
RsV   jwic. WM                               74.3   M0.0  9EL3   87.0   78.7   75.7       73.1       61.0   9L6
'M It prie Wm                               82.1  I00.   93.4   84.5   80.0   78L7         75.0      74.2  104.7
M   of tmok im                              90.6  10.0  1052  laL00   9S.4   96.l          97.4       82.2   90.3
{Oeiziot  of Nschadiu.   Je (2)                          eat Sq.m pmOth Rae (2)
(at azrmw pies)                                      (at autazt Priem)
1971   1976   19E1   1983   1996    991                1971-76   1976-8    I91-66   196-91
1aparts of po                   100.0  I0.0  100.0  100.0  10.0  100.                      5.0       8.1       0.5       LS
Dzo1M                        26.9   42.3   53.3  44.7   21.3   11.4                    3.4       7.4      -5.0     -13.1
Apiaabta                     12.6    4.5    3.1    4.4    6.3    4.4                   4.4       2.4      -0.5       4.0
Other pdinim                 21.3   lLl    4.4    4.8    7.4   11.3                    2.9       0.5       L1       14.9
-mafaturizg 1                39.2   42.1   39.2   46.1   65.0   72.9                   9.2      11        5.2       6.5
Ipozt of Soal.                     100.0 1o0.     100.0 1    1o   00.0                    14.2      10.4      -2.6       L6
Food                         19.6   123   11.4   13.9  1L9   13.2                     -1.9      11.6      -3.3       4.0
P Do1au                       3.6   1L1   19.8   11       7.2    6.6                 30.5      17.6      -4.2      -5.5
Intediae good                30.1  21L8   2.L   29.9   40.0   41.5                    12.1      10.2       2.6       3.4
CPinl god                    27.7   31.9   25.4   25.5   21.6   19.1                  1LO        4.9      -7.4       0.1
Odars                        19.0   15.8   15.4  19.5   L83   19.6                      21      11.4      -2.5       3.2
Sure of le with           Sur of Trae with           Sue of   le with          Sur of Tde wit
I1Ukatrial 0matdis (2)   lDeloDpiz a iries (Z)           Oil 1zT.M  (O)       Ca.tmlly Plmzud ('mries (Z)
1970 1975 199D 1984      1970 1975 1990 198M         1970 1975 19D 109W4       1970  1975  1960 194
&zporcu             70.8 60.1 68.7 76.9        4.9 21.7 25.4 14.5         13.9 11.1  4.8  7.7        9.4  6.1.  0.4  0.9
Tqurts              85.9 79.5 818 80.7         7.1 10.9  7.7 u1.8          0.7  6.3  7.5  3.6        6.3  3.1  3.0  3.9
1/    lxmes foo pmeru ig,  phptes deriwtives, chanial. textile, aeunicl ad electrical inlutrim.
lD61513                                                                                                            El 1966-C
Apil1 986



N I
IQro 7
-28-
muum - MAN= C MM. UIML CAIL AMDOW
(miulmi UN6 at awmpt m)
,bal                                hal.           t
19S    1979    1D    196         196I       13     lob                      'V91
LMAIZ OF FAUUEU
Not balme of71 ie& _wlAc                 416.7  450  -472.6  -67.3  -790.   -437.2    -8.0  -437.8  46.3  -533.0
otWaz  of soads & irvic               1,479.5 3,137.5 3,91L3 3,96.5 3,477.9  3,309.5   3,137  3,0.O  2,195.1 4,9662
lwoa  of p    A XWLCM                1,196.2 3,4935 4,3849 4,613.5 4,2667  3,9467   4,020.7 3,567.7 3,557.1 5,519.2
1t t c .                                  -0.S    10.3    5L5    18.2    23A        1L9        9.0    10.7    I1    16.9
Dinat acwzt ba1g                         417.2  -36M6   414.1  449.0  -767.4   4 2           875.0  -527.1  -549.2  -516.1
Dhut privam iaunit                       102.6   50.9   236.0   367.2  402.2    22L38       36.0   131.8    24    1362
Quts                                      53.2    50.7    41.5   3L3       19.0    25.3       21.6    2460    26.0    120
ILT loan (not)                           256.6   373.7   215.1   275.4   315.0    372.0    328.0 324.0   Y30.3   403.0
OfEicial                                127.4   1L4   126.5   14L85   1S.2    M9.0         3660   409.0   194.0   397.0
friwam                                 131.2   185.3    86L5   1269      .8      123.0.   40.0   45.0   1463         LO
Otdr caital                               35.9   -5.7    1.3A   -78.6   482         159      163.0     L9      0.0     0.0
=o_ in  wrm   s- iwim izume)             38.7  -124.0   -6469   -9.3   -27.1       14.7     149.7   45.7     0.3  -34.9
owastil ad                               273.0   357.9   422.9   51L2   5Y.3    527.6      377.9   332.2   331.9   52a2
b.mz~ma/1qmit 1.8                          1.2     1.2     1.3    1.5       1.6       1.1     1.1     1.1      1.1
kcbaa
1976     1979     1910    1911     19      19B3    19t4
Official                                     53.2     50.7     41.5    2.3    19.0       25.4     25.8
Groms diab     s of ILN  amm                250.8    637.8    559.1  607.2    629.0    741.8    821.6
O,muinl                                     109.3    140.9   206.4  245.5    NA. 1    165.7    301.4
Bilatral                                 100.4   140.0    19.4   239.5   230.0    142.7    286L0
t                                         8.9      0.2      LO      1.1      1.0      -        -
ocl uitiacecl                             0.0      0.7      7.9     6.0    16.2    23.0        13.4
lNcos a    'muol                            141.5   4969    352.7   361.7   3MM.9   576.1    520.1
pri-a3                                   71.6    37a3    Z35   224.4   255.0    366.0    258.0
Official     re dits                      9.9    49.6      55.5   35.4    24.4    87.6    155.3
IND                                      25.3    55.4      51.1   69.4      8L8      89.6     88.0
Oter wald.latem                          30.2     13.7     22.6   32.5      21.7    32.9       15.8
Is     am
Debc  csaNti. i Diab=W                  1,M18L6  3,021.5  3,227.4 3,280.9  3,4805  3,655.7  4,02D.5
officiaL                                976.2  1,1.7   2,038.  2,149.1  2,384L0  2,478.0  2,&5.5
IV127.6    2320    269.0   319.6    375.5    434.2    41D.9
Mt                                     66.1    67.3      67.9    67.5    67.8    67.0       66.2
other                                 78.3  1,554.7  1.7011  1,762.0  1.905.7  1,976.8  2,296.4
rivte                                   206.4  1,166.8  1,119.4 1,131.8  1,32.5  1,180.7  1,175.0
Ubisbuded ddet                         1,124.8  1,819.8  1,925.6 2,020.7  1.9007  2,065.9  1,961.0
DMr SEz
Torad dit service payq s                   9L5    3L5.4   430.4   517.0   483.3    56D.2    661.7
lr.ezac                                 36.9   162.5    215.9  204.7   1W4.8    189.8    221.9
Pryyinu as Z aswzcs                         6.7     10.      1LO    13.1    13.9       16.9     21.7
baqut, asn Z                                1.9      3.6      4.2     5.3      5.1      6.1      7.7
AveMe interea me of ONa4 (L                 5.5      7.2      6.8     8.1      7.6      8.2      9.5
Official                                  4.3      5.6      5.9     6.9      7.1       -        -
Privae                                    7.9      9.8     10.5    12.7      9.4       -        -
hArve  mbzity of amwA (yars)               16.3     15.6     17.4    15.6    17.5    13.9       11.8
Official                                 20.4     19.4     19.4    18.2     2.2        -        -
Private                                   8.6      9.2      9.2     5.8    10.2        -        -
AI of Sb GGtGREq
at Fad of mbat l_t
Year (1964)
DEBTr Sn
biiy s*mtutc of diet omtstxdiN (J
Ant'iation due wisxin 5 years                                 41.2
Amartiration due wijdn 10 years                               67.7
Intrest swgcare of debt agstang .t :)
Inteet due within first year                                   4.1
/1 N1.- s my not aid up due to roundirg.
14  CP 198C
1061S4                                                                                                      April 1986



ANNEX II
Pa. 1 of 2
IN3 SUMlJS OF BANK UWP o0 ATf   IN IINESIA
A. SrYT3E   c' BAW  LS  AND Mi C)IS (As of March 31, 1986)
US $Million
Loan or                                                                                    Amout (leas
Credit                                                                                     C11e11ation)
Mats      Year         Borwwr                       fatpose                          Bk        Di   Undisburued
Forty-fawr la   and Ckedits Fully Disurue                                            468.94    75.15
1601      1978      Republic of lbnisia          Rurml Iads (Ihird 1igunya)          32.00                5.87
1675      1979      Reptblic of Tminiaa          Secoud Urban Sergs                  26.50                7.09
1705      1979      Republic of Uiisia           Secemd Urbn 1 lopast                15.00               2.77
1746      1979      Republic of lmiuai           Seccad Fileries                     28.50               12.95
1796      1980      Republic of Tmisia           Southem Irrigation                  25.00              11.01
1797      1980      Office des Pbrts Nationam    Third Fort                          42.50               9.98
1841      1980      Republic of Thiuia           Fourth Highsya                      36.50               16.43
1864      1980      Socitfi Tuanisieme de
l'Electricit  ect du GQz    Seccnd Natural Grs Pipeline         37.00               14.21
1885      1980      Bhqie Rationale de limisie  Third Agricultural Gtnwc             30.00               5.96
1961      1981      Republic of lbnisia          Fourth Edation                      26.00              21.60
1969      1981      Republic of lhisia           Smill-Scale LAatry Developnt        30.00               16.98
1997      1981      Republic of lhnisia          Nrthest Rural Developmumt           24.00              14.81
2D03      1981      Soci&t& lluisienne de
1'Electricitf et du Gaz      hird Power                         37.50               4.70
2DI5      1981       Republic of lmisia          Health and Ptpulation               12.50                9.82
2052      1981       Republic of l)miaia         Grain Distrihatic  and Storage      38O.                21.71
2108      1982      Republic of enisia           Fifth Highwy (Rnal Roads)           35.50              23.63
2113      1982      aDET                         Electrical and Methanical Idta,tries 30.50              13.11
2134      1982      SONE                         Sixth Water StVly                   30.50               5.72
2157      1982      Republic of au isia          Irrigation Dewelqmun                22.00               17.35
2197      1982      Rpublic of Mimisia           Technical Assistare                  4.50               2.99
2223      1983      Republic of Thnisia          Urban Jeelopment III                25.00              21.99
2230      1983      Republic of lmiaia           Eidwation V                         27.00              25.48
2234      1983      Republic of Tlisia           Central Ibnisia Irrigation          16.50              11.28
2255      1983      Republic oE Mnisia           Urban Ss-erge m                     34.00              32.16
2289      1983      Reptblik of limisia          SEa Flowd Potection                 25.00              22.32
2301      1983      SLFl&                       Industry (IV) Foundry               16.80              12.07
2346      1984      Republic of Mmisia           Hining Technical Assisae            13.40              11.45
2368      1984      Republic of d misia          Seventh Wat Sqly                    50.00              47.61
2429      1984      Republic of Ibnisia          Secd Urba Transport                 33.00              32.92
2455      1984      Sociht4 Ilisiesu  de
1'Electricict er du Gaz     Fourth Fbwer                        38.70              38.60
2502 a/   1985      Republic of Manisia          tbrth West Agricultural Pwduirtion    15.00             15.00
2522      1985      Republic of Ibnisia          Export Tndustries                   50.00              50.00
2554      1985      Republic of fimisia          Second Electrical and Mechnical     54.00              54.00
ILdustries
2573 al   1985      Republic oE Tenisia          Lrrigation  _ euaot Jp4wveAent    22.00                22.00
2605 ui   1985      Reptblic of Ianisia          Gabes Irition                       27.70              27.70
IGAL                                                          1,481.04    75.15   663.26
Of widch has been repaid                                        260.31**   9.84**
Total nw outstandirg                                          1,220.73    65.31
Amount Sold                         23.38
of which has been repaid          14.33
Total now held by Balk and DA lb                              1.197.35    65.31
Ibtal tLdisbursed                                                                 663.26
a/  Not yet effective
bI  Prior to echarge rate adjusment
June 1986
106LS/1



- 30 -
Page 2 of 2
SZADr OF Iy INJE:l1 IN IDNSTA (AS F  UIM 31, 1986)
YbTr             (bligetor                    ?Ap of DUiniS                       AwLmt of US Million
low          Eic         TOCal
1962             NRK  gi                      Fetilizers                      2.0           1.5        3.5
1966             Saci6cf tktionle
d'lnvestieut (n. MV)  Dev. Fini:e CD.                                    0.6        0.6
1969             CrFD  (Cbaunm  wu DM)        IDv. Finmce Co.                 8.0           2.2       10.2
1970             IlEi                         Dev. Fine Co.                                 0.6        0.6
1973             Socikt furiscque et
Hieliire  ON Si.           Imbri_                          1.6           0.3        1.9
1974             Idustrums Oiiques du Fluor Q6>cas                                          0.6        0.6
1975             SociSte d'Enxds et de
Dvelaoppint de Sm5sse4b Tiri m                             2.5           0.6        3.1
1978             EInv. Fine Co.                                                             1.2        1.2
1984             Sacite flzisieae de IAasing  f-ing Co.                                     0.5        0.5
1984             Societ Miniare de Spor
Fluor ee de Barytin.
(FluEbar)                  misin co.                                     0.3        0.3
Tbtal G(ss Cnuoei  s                                       l4.1           8.4       22.5
LaS CADMelatios
Tenwllwcioos, Rayquts
ard Sales                                                  13.2          1.8       L5.0
7ta    r as now Y
held by IR                                                  0.9           6.6        7.5
7htal UbAisbLrsed                                           0.0           0.3        0.3
Y    In amitica, IEC appxaved an Jamnuy 7. 1986, an invest of appbacizcely US$ 8.2 million equivalent in Soci&t
Tmbistrielle des lctiles, "S=:.
0703S/84



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                  22 months
(b)  Agen: -s that prepared the project:  ARRU, AFE, CNEL, MOEE
Cc)  Project first identified by Bank:    January 1983
Cd)  Bank appraisal mission:               October 1984 and April 1985
Ce) Negotiations completed:                June 6, 1986
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 30, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special Conditions of Effectiveness.
Signature of: (a) Agreements between ARRU and each of ONAS, SONEDE and STEG
(para. 43); (b) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
CPSCL; (c) a Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL; and (d) a
Financing Agreement between CNEL and AFH (para. 53).
2. Conditions of Disbursement. (a) for each subproject, approval by the Bank
on the basis of agreed criteria (para. 41); and (b) for the site servicing
component, the establishment of a new plot pricing system and a
cross-subsidization policy benefitting smaller plots (para. 47).
3. Other Features
(a) Upgrading and site servicing subprojects to meet agreed eligibility
criteria (para. 41);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The Government to ensure that ARRU continue to employ an urban
planner and an engineer until June 30, 1987 (para. 43);
(c) The Government to take necessary measures to authorize the
municipalities concerned to borrow from CPSCL (para. 45);
(d) AFH to employ consultants in land management, public administration,
and computer science, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 51);
(e) The Government to ensure that: (i) interest rates are charged to
municipalities by CPSCL at CPSCL's regular terms and conditions for
Government funds, and at cost for Bank funds; (ii) interest rates of
8.25 percent or 7 percent p.a. are charged (depending on whether the
beneficiary is earning more, or equal to or less than 1 1/2 times the
minimum wage) for house construction or improvement loans and 11
percent p.a. is charged for AFH's site servicing operations (para.
54) and (iii) financial intermediaries' interest rates in the housing
sector cover at least the cost of capital and a spread sufficient to
cover their operating cost (para. 55);
Cf) Cost of on-site infrastructure works to be recovered by
municipalities through the frontage tax system, and utility
connection costs to be recovered through utility tariffs. Cost of
land and servicing to be recovered through sales and loan repayments
to CNEL (para. 62).



IBRD 18756
TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   z                                              .rlo/tntranwi     ;1*
PROJECT  CITIES                        oxo           ea-w
A   Upgrading ComnPonent       .0            )      4 \-               s     ton Golf
(3Site Serv,lcingComnporsne                       -\1            Fouchc~n   -
*   Provincial Capital$                                                   (FI JoJuo    f.gE   }   osl
- Sll takecs           j_>~   ~~<   u           ~      -              0tn
+   Internotiaond Airports       k 't t                               fh      c14 fs
- -Provinciol Boundaries             G\       te
-     I-nternational Boeundaries         -                 on Bargof  1tamvt 
LLI    ,   Ka#trin^>           <                       /z                      +~~~~~~~~~~Ka
-35-                                                           *Sidi Bouzd                                                     31 ,
./                  .                  \)               ,,/~~~~~~~~Shia,j
*  3Tozw',J                                                    (Si'GooW
N Nafttte/Z
\   /                                                ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Mareth /  
)                                                 /        *3; je ~~~~~~~~~Idine;
FRANCE                    SLS^-AVIAI                                                                                  /-
_. _>, s k +> (333'Totooune                                                                                        J3V-
SPAIN              -            e                                    t'g               
i TUNISIA  "AMU
t   >     x                      C     X    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMtETERS
PI~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ Cf RIA    bp    -. .* -   d. _               _    _IL   B Y A
FEBRUARY 1 985



