Dmiat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-                              2> ?3 F-1OA
Report No. 5444-TIJN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 9, 1986
Urban and Regional Development Projects Division
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
The exchange rate for the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rates used
in this report are:
1 Tunisian Dinar (TD)               US$1.43
1 US Dollar                    =   TD 0.7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
AFH        -   Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (Land Development Agency)
ARRU       -   Agence pour la R6habilitation et la R6novation Urbaine
(Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency)
ASM        -   Association pour la Sauvegarde de la Medina
(Association for the Safeguard of Medina)
BCT        -   Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET       -   Banque de D4veloppment Economique de Tunisie
(Economic Development Bank)
CNEL       -   Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (National Housing
and Savings Fund)
CPSCL      -   Caisse de Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites
Locales (Municipalities Support Fund)
FOPROLOS   -   Fonds pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries
(Workers' Housing Fund)
MOEH       -   Ministere de l'Equipement et l'Habitat (Ministry of
Equipment and Housing)
Moi        -   Ministere de l'Int6rieur (Ministry of Interior)
MOP        -   Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
MTC        -   Ministere de Transport et Communications (Ministry of
Transport and Communications
ONAS       -   Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewerage
Company)
SNIT       -   Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (National Real
Estate Company
SONEDE     -   Soci&t6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution
des Eaux (National Water Production and Distribution
Company)
SPROLS     -   Societe de Promotion des Logements Sociaux
(Social Housing Company)
STEG       -   Societ6 Tunisienne d'Electricite et de Gaz (Public
Electricity and Gas Company)
USAID      -   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
REPUBUC OF TUNLAL
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMA;Y ..........      ........................     - i -
I .  INTRODUCTION .       .............................................      1
II.  THE HOUSING SECTOR .        .......................................      2
A.  Urbanization Patterns ..................................             2
B.  Institutional Framework ...............................             3
C.  Urban and Housing Conditions ..........................             3
D.  Government Housing Policy .............................             4
E.  Bank's Role and Past Experience in the Sector ..........            6
F.  Bank's Objectives and Strategy ........................             8
III.  THE PROJECT         ...............................................      9
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .........................             9
B.  Project Description ...................................             9
C.  Institutional Aspects and Projet Execution ....      ........      11
D.  Financial Features ....................................            15
E.  Procurement and Disbursement ..........................            18
F.  Accounts and Audits ...................................            20
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation .............................            20
H. Supervision ...........................................             20
IV.  COST RECOVERY, BENEFICIARY SELECTION, AND AFFORDABILITY ...            21
A.  Cost Recovery .........................................            21
B.  Beneficiaries Selection .       . ..............................   22
C.  Financial Terms and Conditions to Beneficiaries .......            22
D. Income Profiles, Affordability Analysis and Urban
Poverty Impact .............................                     22
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................           23
A.  Project Benefits           ......................................  23
B.  Economic Impact and Rates of Return ....................           24
C.  Project Risks .........................................            25
VI.  ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....        ............    25
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
(October 1984 and April 1985). The appraisal mission members included Messrs.
A. El-Tobgy (mission leader), S. Kargetis (urban planner). C. Hovnanian and J.
L. Berger (consultants); the April 1985 appraisal mission included Messrs. r.
T. Christie and A. El-Tobgy. Mrs. L. Victorio typed the report.
This document has a restrieted distribution nd may be used by rmcipients only in the peormace
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authofization.



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Agencies Involved in the Provision of Shelter            ..........   27
Annex  2:  Project Pipelire ..****.......................                        28
Annex  3:  Cost Estimate ty Main Com         ponent .........................    29
AnneM  4:  Eligibility Cr_.teris ...... .............................            30
Annex  5:  Technical Assistance ......... ...  ................................. .  32
Annex  6:  Project Institutions ....... ........ ...* ..........                 35
Annex  7:  CPSCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement                  .........            52
Annex  8:  CNEL Management Agreement .... .. ....  ..... ....... . . .... .      53
Annex  9:  Cost Estimate by Site ..... .... . .  a * ... **.....***............................. * * *  55
Annex 10:  Cash Flow Charts  ..*.****......O..O..O ......                        56
Annex 11:  Cash Flow Tables .. *.....**e***********t**o**c****ee                 58
Annex 12:  Disbursement Schedule ...............                                 60
Annex 13:  Income Distribution Curve ..*       ..........................        61
Annex 14:  Affordability Analysis .... ..... .. ......... ....... .... a .       62
Annex 15:  Economic Analysis . ................           ..... oo ............  64
Annex 16:  Documents in Project file o   ............................            65
MAP
IBRD 18756 - Map showing project sites
Z03SU



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:     Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation Urbaine
(ARRU), Agence Fonci6re d'3abitation (AFH). The final
beneficiaries of the project would be the municipalities
and those families living in upgraded areas and purchasers
of serviced lots.
Loan Amount:       US$30.2 million
Loan Terms:        Repayable in 20 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   Out of the loan the Government would channel US$22.05
million as follows:
Ci) US$7.52 million would be onlent to the "Caisse de Prets
et de Soutien des Collectivit6s Locales" (CPSCL), at
cost of Bank funds at date of Loan Agreement, repayable
in 20 years including three years of grace. CPSCL would
relend these amounts to municipalities at cost for 20
years including two years of grace; and
(5i) US$14.53 million would be managed by the Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL). CNEL would onlend
out of these funds US$7.85 million to AFH for site
servicing at 11.0 percent for three years and US$6.68
million to beneficiaries for housing construction, at
8.25 percent for beneficiaries with incomes higher than
one and a half times the SHIG'" and 7 percent for
beneficiaries with incomes equal to or lower than one
and a half times the SHIQ, for 20 years with two years
of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk as well
as the interest rate risk.
Project Obiectives:
(i) To provide improved shelter and urban services in
existing settlements and to develop serviced urban land
affordable to low-income families.
(ii) To support the Government's efforts in the
rationalization of urban activities and to strengthen
the capability of institutions involved in the sector.
/ SNIG is the legal guaranteed minimum wage (about TD 90/month in 1986).-



- ii -
Proiect Description:         The project ccnsists of three parts:
(i) Upgrading of existing settlements through the
provision cr extension of infrastructure
networks ard community facilities,
regularizardion of land tenure and provision of
loans for Lousing construction and improvement
of existing housing;
(ii)  Servicing Land through the development of
subdivisiors, provision of infrastructure
works, and loans for land acquisition and
housing construction; and
(iii) Technical assistance to organizations involved
in the project.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
Us- Million      -
Upgrading                         21.6        18.5      40.1
Site Servicing                    15.6       11.1       26.7
Technical Assistance              00.0        0.6        0.6
37.2       30.2       67.4
Finan:ing Plan:
US$ Million        2 of Total
IBRD                              30.2               44.8
Government                        24.2               36.0
CNEL                               6.0                8.8
AFN                                7.0               10.4
67.4              100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$  Million
FY      87      88     89      90     91      92     93      94     95
Annual      0.3    1.7    4.1    4.8    5.4    5.2    3.9    2.8    2.0
Cumulative  0.3    2.0    6.1   10.9   16.3   21.5   25.4   28.2   30.2



TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Tunisia :- a rapidly urbanizing country.  Its urban population in
1985 accounted fo= about 53 percent of its estimated total population of
7.5 million. The high rate of urban population growth of 3.7 percent a year
since 1975 has strained the public sector's ability to provide basic urban
services. Public housing, which has accounted for about 20 percent of the
urban housing stock since 1975, has been provided at high cost in terms of
investment and direct subsidy levels. More importantly, however, the public
sector was unable to provide in a coordinated and timely manner sufficient
urban infrastructure to meet the demand for serviced land for housing. This
has directly contributed to the spread of spontaneous, unregulated, mostly
low-income settlements on land lacking both services and legal title. The
spread of these settlements has led to inefficient and largely uncontrolled
urban growth patterns and ultimately imposes excessive investment requirements
for ex post facto provision of infrastructure.
1.02     Previous Bank involvement under the First Urban Development Project
was related to urban transport in Tunis. The Second Urban Development Project
concentrated on upgrading infrastructure and housing in selected low-income
areas and on providing new sites and services in adjacent areas. This project
demonstrated the feasibility of upgrading and providing low-cost sites and
services in Tunis and Sfax. The Third Urban Development Project continues the
efforts in Tunis and extends them to priority areas in the North-West. A
second transport project was approved in 1984, which is intended to improve
the Greater Tunis highway system and the regional transport company in Sfax.
1.03     Sectoral policy improvements both under projects and through sector
policy discussions have been significant. The Government now accepts the
concept of upgrading squatter sites rather than demolishing and clearing them
and is adopting policies whereby public sector emphasis is on the provision of
infrastructure and serviced land and not construction of subsidized housing.
The Government increasingly is leaving housing construction to private sector
initiative and particularly to the considerable dynamism of the informal
private sector. The Government is trying to reduce subsidies and to introduce
cost recovery procedures and realistic interest rates in the sector in spite
of the associated political risk. The Government acknowledges that much
remains to be done to achieve consistent urban policies and has requested that
tLe Bank provide assistance to further analyze and make recommendations
regarding housing finance and land development as part of an ongoing dialogue
about policy inprovement and for subsequent implementation under the VIIth
Plan (1987-199L).



-2-
1.04     The proposed Fourth Urban Development Project builds on the second
and third projects. It would address shelter needs in a two-fold manner: (i)
a preventive component to increase the availability of serviced land for
low-income families and (ii) a curative component to upgrade infrastructure in
existing squatter settlements. Each component would be financed through a
line of credit based on a pipeline of subprojects reviewed and approved by the
Bank. The two components would further be supported by the strengthening of
the staff capability of the project institutions and by a program of technical
assistance.
1.05     The project also is designed to improve the linkages between the main
institutions involved in land development, upgrading and housing finance and
build up their capacity to appraise and execute low-income shelter projects in
a well coordinated and systematic manner. The Agence Fonciere d'Habitation
(AFH), which is the Land Development Agency, and the Agence pour la
R6habilitation et la Renovation Urbaine (ARRU), which is the Urban Upgrading
and Renewal Agency, would each identify and prepare feasibility studies for
the subprojects. The Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL), which is the
National Housing and Savings Fund, would manage, partially finance and
appraise the site servicing component. The Caisse des Prets et de Soutien aux
Collectivites Locales (CPSCL), the municipal development fund, would be used
as a conduit to channel project funds under the upgrading components.
II - THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Urbanization Patterns
2.01     The rapid increase in Tunisia's urban population has been due to a
relatively high natural population growth (about 2.6 percent net p.a. between
1975 and 1984), the return of migrant workers from abroad, and rural-urban
migration. Every region, except Sfax and Bizerte, has experienced
in-migration in recent years. Tunis still receives the largest migratory
flows but has a much lower urban populatio: growth rate than the rapidly
urbanizing Center-West and North-West governorates (for Tunis 1.2 percent p.a.
versus 3.1 percent p.a. for the North-West and 5.8 percent p.a. for the
Center-West). The urban population is estimated to reach 6.0-6.2 million by
the year 2000. The pressures of urban population growth have been such that
authorities are unable to keep up the level of urban services, and as a result
significant backlogs in the provisioni of services have developed. The problem
is not limited to the major cities but is felt on a national scale in the 125
agglomerations of 5,000 or more inhabitants.
2.02     About 10 percent of Tunisia's urban population lives below the
Bank-defined absolute poverty threshold, estimated in 1984 at about TD 80 per
household/month with an average household size of 5.3 persons. This
represents a considerable improvement over the 1975 figure of 20 percent.
Compared to other countries with similar characteristics, Tunisia's urban
poverty problem appears containable. However, access of low-income groups to
housing and basic infrastructure services is still a major concern.



B. Institutional Framework
2.03     Tunisia is divided into 23 governorates under the supervision of the
Ministry of Interior (MOI). At the local level, authority is vested in
Municipalities. With few exceptions, the municipalities have insufficient
staff, limited management capacity, and little control over their financial
resources. They rely therefore on direct Government budgetary allocations or
subsidized loans for their operating and investment budgets. Since 1975,
CPSCL. an agency of MOI, has served as the channel for Government long-term,
low-interest loans to the municipalities for the financing of community
facilities and infrastructure projects.
2.04     Issues related to shelter have been the responsibility of various
ministries but are now consolidated in the Ministry of Equipment and Housing
(MOEH), which was established as a result of the merger of the Ministry of
Housing with the Ministry of Equipment in August, 1984. MOEH is also
responsible for providing all major public works, including roads and
highways. For shelter related matte:s, MOEH is presently organized into
technical departments for housing construction, upgrading and urban renewal,
housing assistance, and legal matters. MOEH has under its control three major
public agencies: the Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (SNIT)
established in 1957 which is the national real estate company responsible for
public housing construction; ARRU, an autonomous agency established in 1981
with broad powers to coordinate urban renewal and upgrading activities,
including the provision of utility services; and AFH, the principal land
developer established in 1973. In addition, MOEH has technical control over
CNEL, the autonomous public savings and loan agency established in 1974 under
the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Finance and Economy to mobilize
domestic resources through contractual savings plans for housing loans.
Annex 1 lists the institutions involved in the urban sector.
2.05     Design, construction, operation, and maintenance of utility networks
and services in urban areas are the responsibility of national companies
attached to different Ministries: the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE) is the National Water Production and
Distribution Company under the Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for water
supply and distribution; the Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS) is the
National Sewerage Company under the MOEH, responsible for urban sewerage and
drainage systems; and the Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et de Gaz (STEG) is
the Public Electricity and Gas Company under the Ministry of Energy and Mines
responsible for power production and distribution.
2.06     The MOI, through the Governorates and the Municipalities, carries out
the collection and disposal of solid waste.
C. Urban and Housing Conditions
2.07     Rapid urbanization has generated a large housing demand and led to
intensive construction activity. As a result, the housing stock has increased
at an annual average rate of 4 percent to reach 1.3 million dwellings in 1984,
about 55 percent of which are in urban areas. Housing conditions improved



- 4 -
during 1980-1984, rudimentary housing and one room dwellings decreased from 13
percent to 9 percent and from 31 percent to 21 percent of all housing units
respectively. However, the demand for housing and urban services continues to
outpace the public sector's ability to keep up with urban growth. Almost half
of all dwellings built since 1975 have bypassed urban development regulations
and were instead undertaken by the informal sector in areas lacking adequate
utility services and community facilities, relying on self-help and low-cost
construction methods. Moreover, according to most projections, housing
construction by the public and formal private sectors will fall well short of
demand under the Sixth Plan. It is essential therefore to incrc se the supply
of suitably located serviced land at prices affordable to the poorest segments
of the population. Availability of land would permit the informal private
sector to develop its activities related to housing construction and fill the
gap in housing demand.
2.08     Regulations related to rent control in Tunisin apply only to housing
built prior to 1970 which represents a small percentage of the total housing
stock. The Government is aware of the inconveniences caused by the control
and intends to take the needed steps to reduce such controls.
2.09     Access to basic utility services has improved considerably in recent
years in most urban areas. STEG's electricity network covers about 97 percent
of urban areas while SONEDE is distributinig water to about 80 percent of the
urban population through household connections and another 10 percent through
standpipes. Despite an ambitious and sturcessful program, ONAS has been only
able to service about 55 percenrt of urban areas, largely because it is a
relatively new organization. The gap between water and sewerage availability
aggravates environmental problems since waste water has increased as a result
of improvements in water supply. Solid waste collection has also improved
considerably lately in city centers. lhe improvement was partly triggered by
the recognition of health hazards associated with uncollected wastes; however,
the supply of infrastructure services at the urban periphery and at the
rap-dly expanding areas is still poor and there is little coordination between
the various responsible agencies. A feature of the proposed project is to
im?rove coordination between agencies and thus to promote et2icient provision
of services.
D.  Covcrtim i,t Housing_Poliry
2.10     Until thte mid-l17O's, the Government's response to urban housing
nceds and to the growth of spontLancous settlemenits consisted mainly in
construction ot public housing, siwum clearance and subsidized houbing schemes
to rehouse displaced families.  SNIT, the main operator for the construction
of public housing, rapidly became an important agency. Its standards
initially were high and bore little relationship to its clients' financial
ability or willingness to pay. Recently, it has become more responsive to
market demands and started building at lower cost and standards. Still. the
magnitude of the housing problem continued to grow. The Govornment in
response created CNEL in 1973 to mobilize savings for housing as well as AFH
in 1974 to provide serviced land. However, the new agencies were subsidized
and did not address the fundamental problem of providing infrastructure in the
large settlements built informally by families in violation of urban
regulations, that were proliferating on the urban fringes.



2.11     Thus, on the eve of the Fifth Plan (1977-81), the Tunisian housing
sector consisted of subsidized public housing with rampant growth of squatter
settlements which did not benefit from public services. Housing accounted for
15 percent of total investment; the public sector provided 42 perceIlt of
financing for 25 percent of the units built; and the private sector provided
58 percent of financing and 75 percent of total units. However, under the
Fifth Plan, the Bank's Second Urban Development Project (para. 2.23) as well
as similar projects by USAID were financed. Theme ef forts laid the foundation
for reintroduction of rational policies of upgrading instead of denolishing
squatter settlements, developing low-cost sites and sgrvicem projects, And
recovering costs of infrastructure and improvements from beneticiarieu.
2.12     At the beginning of the Sixth Plan (1982-8h). the Bank prepared a
housing sector review that focumed attention on the necdt for all integrated
rational housing policy.l Its main findings and recommenidations were that:
(i) lack of serviced land is a severe constraeint to elfficienit tirban growth;
(ii) Government should concentrate on provision ot intrastructure rathier than
housing; (iii) provision of urban services in squatter settlements sand other
spontaneous growth areas is badly needed; (iv) strengthenit.g nand improvement
of the performance of housing sector institutions in setting policies,
providing financing and implementing upgrading ;uind land development projects
is of utmost importance; and (v) cost recovery and non-subsidized prices tor
housing services should be assured.
2.13     In an etfort to limit investment in hiousing, the Sixth Plan: allocated
TD 1.0 billion for lbO,OOO housing units, or 12.S percent of investment.
However. by the end of 1983, these investments reached TD 1.5 billion or lb.b
percent ot total investment.  Accordin, to thle recent Mid-Term Plan
Review.-:  the increase in investment raised concerns that heusing was taking
too great a share of total investment. Whereas there is substance to this
concern, it is also true that housing investment is at near historical levels
(the housing sector review projections had estimated housing investment at
TD I.S-1.7 billion for the Plan period). Nevertheless, in light of the tight
budgetary situation and the need to focus p-blais investments in housing on the
lower-income groups, it is essential that public hotising investment be
contained.  As basic infrastructure and urbatn services can Kenerally he
provided by the public sector more efticienitly thaln shelter, the hest way to
reduce public investment in housing and to address housing necds .at thie same
time, is upgrading existing settlements through provision of ba.sir
infrastructure and guiding luture developmlnt thiroughi the provision ot small
serviced plots.  Housing investment can thenT be I,-5t more to private
initiative, accompanied by .availability ot suit.able f inatiring. This would
help mobilize domestic resources and uitilize theti potential oS thr intformal
housing sector.  Thc Government intends in the Seventh Plan to reduce public
investment in housing trom the levels it attainrd duritng the Sixth Plavn.  This
would be achieved by graduallv reduring subsidies, building standards,
instituting tull-cost pricing and recovery and more etticient coordination and
provision of services. A number o' these measures hive alreadv been agreed
with the Bank and the proposed project addresses these prioritv issues.
L/  Housing Sector Review. Report No. 4013 (August 1. 1983).
2/  Country Economic Memorandum on Mid-Term Review of the Sixth Development
Plan (1982-b6), Report No. 5128 (Februarv, 19S').



- 6 -
2.14     As a result of the rationalization efforts regarding sector
institutions under the Sixth Plan, MOEH is now in a position to devise housing
policies and supervise its execution. The Minister of Equipment and Housing
has moved rapidly to reorganize MOEH by creating regional delegations in each
governorate that are responsible for administration and accounts, urban
planning, housing, roads and bridges, buildings, and research studies. The
organizat:on of the MOEH at the central level into four main departments (as
mentioned in para. 2.04) appears reasonable. The Department of Housing
Assistance Research and Studies is responsible for all studies and analysis of
planning options. This is a satisfactory arrangement at present, but as the
ministry develops, it may be more efficient to consolidate MOEH into fewer
dep,artnments.
E.  Bank's Role and Past _fxpcrienr c  in the Sector
Bank's Sectoral Role
2.15     Since 1966, the Bank has maintained a close sector dialogue with the
Tunisian authorities. The Housing Sector Review represented a major
contribution to the formulation of the housing policies and programs of tae
Sixth Plan. The Housing Finance Sector Study ' provided a framework for
much needed reform to housing policies and finance.  The report of that Study
was discussed with the Tunisian authorities in October 1984. Its main
findings are that institutional finance represented only 37 percent of total
investment in housing during the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) and that most housing
iniestment comes from private hoarding and savings. CNEL is the largest
provider of housing finance and has been able to mobilize savings under its
contractual savings scheme largely through a promise of access to a house as
part of its program. It has been less successful at utilizing resources
because of bottlenecks in supply of developed land and low-cost housing
eligible for institutional financing.
2.16     The report elaborates a strategy to strengthen CNEL and eventually
enabic it to become a housing bank. The strategy is based on modifying CNEL's
structure and diversifying its financial activities and products by involving
it in financing plot acquisition, upgrading, acquisition and improvement of
existing housing and rental investments. The approach implies reviewing
deposit and lending interest raLes (within the framework of sector wide
rates), extending maturiLies on new loans and studying the merits of
contractual versus open saving schemes. The authorities are in broad
agreemcnt with the recommendations and has already increased the lending and
deposit interest rates. Additional work is needed before implementation of
the remainder of the recommendations.
2.17     This additional work is underway.  Bank missions visited Tunisia
several times upon the request of the Minister of Housing and Equipment to
give advice in developing a quantitative model of the housing finance system
and in working with a commission composed of all the agencies involved in
housing and urban development to enable the introduction of the
1/ Institutional Housing Finance Sector Review, Report No. 5199 (July 18,
1984).



- 7 -
recommendations. The results are being taken into consideration in the
deliberations regarding urban policies and programs of the National Superior
Commission that was established on March 15, 1985 to prepare for the Seventh
Plan (1987-1991).
Bank's Urban Lending
2.18     The Bank's previous urban lending activities included two urban
transport and two shelter projects. The proposed project would be consistent
with the experience obtained out of these projects and with the Housing
Finance Report recommendations.  It would extend CNEL's activities into areas
of financing land servicing and acquisition and wo.ld increas- cost recovery
through more realistic pricing. It would also help move CNEL upstream in
financing land acquisition and development and would be a first step towards
the establishment of a plot acquisition savings scheme.
Urban Transport
2.19     The Ministry of Transport and Communications and MOEN are the
ministries resonsible for urban transport and highways. The Bank has been
involved in two urban transport projects which are described below.
2.20     The first urban development operation in Tunisia, the Tunis District
Urban Planning and Public Transport Project (Loan 937-TUN and Credit 432-TUN
of 1973 totalling US$ll million) improved traffic conditions in Tunis, renewed
and expanded the Tunisian National Transport Agency's bus fleet, and developed
a suburban railway. It also supported the establishment of the District of
Tunis, the first regional planning authority in the country. In its early
years of operation, the District was influential in establishing spatial
patterns of development for Greater Tunis and in guiding policies related to
low-income housing; however, the District's performance lately fell short of
expectations, mainly as a result of lack of Government support for its
activities.
2.21     The Second Urban Transportation Project (US$33.0 million;
Loan 2429-TUN of 1984) will improve the Greater Tunis highway system and
provide for by-passes to the city center, will improve the Sfax regional
transport company, and will address policy issues related to parking
management and private transport services. The project became effective on
June 26, 1985. All components are progressing except the Sfax regional
transport component which is delayed because of financial and managerial
issues.
Shelter
2.22     MOEB is responsible for shelter related projects.  The Bank is at
present involved in two such projects.
2.23     The Second Urban Development Project (US$19 million; $4.0 million was
cancelled in 1984, mainly because of the US dollar appreciation; Loan 1705-TUN
of 1979) which was closed on December 31. 1985, included upgrading and sites
and services in low-income settlements in Tunis and Sfax, as well as a solid
waste collection and disposal component in Greater Tunis, and a line of credit
for small-scale businesses. The project also provided technical assistance
and support to the Project Unit and to the municipalities of Tunis and Sfax,
which geared up for project execution. A cadastral study had been added to



- 8 -
project by an amendment, She study is expected to lead to a program of
cadastral reform. The Central Project Unit, initially within MOI, was
transferred to MOEH. Funds earmarked for the small-scale business assistance
component were reallocated to civil works after creation of a less expensive
fund for the same purpose. The solid waste collection and disposal component
initially suffered from delays in establishing an executing agency, but
progressed well with ONAS in charge. Measures were also taken to improve
coordination and introduce more effective cost recovery procedures. An amount
estimated at US$1.0 million would remain undisbursed by the closing of project
accounts on June 30, 1986.
2.24     The Third Urban Development Project (US$25.0 million; Loan 2223-TUN
of 1983) includes upgrading in four settlements and sites cud services in
three of these, a pilot program of upgrading and reconstruction in the medina
of Tunis and technical assistance. Credit for plot acquisition and housing
construction is also provided and represents the first such financing
available in Tunisia. Three of the five project sites are in Greater Tunis
with the two others in the North-West area. Most of the civil work and
contracts for upgrading have been awarded. ARRU, the main executing agency,
has developed rapidly in an efficient and businesslike manner. Signed
contracts totaled US$13.5 million as of May 31, 1986, which represents about
US$6.0 million of loan commitments. Disbursement, however, reached only
US$3.4 million due to some initial delays in the start of works and as a
result of the appreciation of the the U.' dollar in relation to the Tunisian
Dinar.
F. Bank Obiectives and StrategY
2.25     In the next five years, the Bank's urban lending strategy will be
two-pronged: municipal development, and shelter. For municipal development,
the municipal finance and management study should lead to a municipal project,
possibly involving the strengthening of CPSCL as the municipal financial
intermediary. In the shelter subsector, the lending objectives would address
the following key priorities:
(i)  improving policies related to land ac, 1.5sition, deveLopment, and
disposition;
(ii) providing sufficient supply of suitably located serviced land at
prices affordable to low-income groups;
(iii) improving the level of services in existing spontaneous unregulated
settlements; and
(iv) strengthening and improving the performance of institutions involved
in setting policies, providing financing, and implementing upgrading
and land development programs.



2.25     The institutions to implement the objectives related to shelter are
in place: HOEK is responsible for policy formulation, ARRU for improving
services in existing settlements, AFH for land development and CNEL for
housing finance. The proposed project addresses all the above mentioned
objectives through these agencies.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Obiectives
3.01     The project was appraised in October 1984.  It originated from
discussions with the Government following the signature of the loan agreement
for the Third Urban Development Project in January 1983. The dialogue
continued through Bank missions to Tunisia notably in October 1983 and March
and July 1984. The objectives of the project are to:
(i)  improve shelter and urban services for low-income households;
(ii)  provide serviced land in urban areas affordable to low-income
households; and
(iii)  strengthen the capacity of institutions responsible for upgrading,
land development and provision of shelter to carry out the above
functions and improve the coordination between them.
3.02     To achieve these objectives, the project would build on the
experience of prior projects and would address the major issues of land
pricing, provision of services at appropriate standards for the targeted
market groups, and cost recovery to ensure replicability.
B. Project Description
3.03     The project consists of three major components (i) upgrading
infrastructure and community facilities in underserviced settlements by ARRU;
(ii) development of serviced sites aimed at low income groups by AEH; and
(iii) technical assistance.
Upgrading and Site Servicing Components
3.04     Two lines of credit would be established to finance identified
subprojects (Annex 2). Eighteen sites were identified by ARRU for upgrading
for a total estimated cost of US$40.0 million and twenty by AFH for site
servicing for a total estimated cost of US$26.8 million. The Bank would
finance the foreign exchange cost which represents about 44.8 percent of total
cost (Annex 3). The proposed project would extend the intervention to most
governorates in the country as part of a comprehensive national program.
3.05     The upgrading component would include land acquisition, compensation
or rehousing of households affected by demolition, regularization of ownership
and occupancy status, provision and extension of infrastructure networks



- 10 -
(water, sewerage, storm water drainage, electricity and roads and footpaths)
and construction of community facilities. The site servicing component would
focus on improvement through developing and subdividing land into plots
between 80 m2 and 160 m2 for housing, provision of needed infrastructure
and development of serviced land for community facilities as well as the
provision of loans for plot acquisition. Both components would include loans
for housing construction for the infill plots in upgraded areas and for about
25 percent of the plots in the site servicing subprojects. Moreover, the
upgrading component would include loans for improvement of housing existing on
the site.
3.06     Identification of Subproject Sites.  The subprojects sites were
identified on the basis of selection criteria agreed with the Bank. These
criteria include the availability of nearby and existing infrastructure, site
accessibility, size of settlements, ownership patterns, growth potentialities,
income of beneficiaries, cost, and expected demand for the serviced sites.
Moreover to ensure a prompt start, all identified sites in the site servicing
pipeline are already owned by AFH. However, since the implementation of
subprojects would depend on local conditions at each site, AFH and ARRU could
substitute subprojects in the event that any of those in the identified
pipeline face delay or encounter unexpected problems.
3.07     Feasibility Studies and Eligibility Criteria.  AFH and ARRU have
prepared preliminary feasibility studies for all identified subprojects. The
Bank has reviewed all of these studies, and ARRU and APH are refining and
expanding the financial, economic and engineering aspects before submitting
them to the Bank for approval. To satisfy the requirements of the eligibility
criteria (Annex 4), submitted studies would include preliminary engineering,
cost estimates, financial plan, implementation schedules, analysis of
beneficiaries' income, affordability and cost recovery procedures. For the
site servicing subprojects the study would also include a justification for
the demand for the plots, an analysis of the beneficiaries creditworthiness,
and an indication of the proposed selling price of the plots. ARRU and AFH
would submit all documentation related to the subprojects for approval not
later than December 31, 1989. Subprojects would be approved for Bank
financing only if they meet the specific conditions of the eligibility
criteria which were reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
Technical Assistance
3.08     An amount of US$0.6 million would be allocated to technical
assistance to strengthen AFH. The assistance would include 2.75 man-years of
experts to train AFP staff in areas related to land management, administration
and institutional aspects, accounting, and computerization. A management
system would be set up to improve the acquisition and management of AFP's land
stock and its accounting procedures. The necessary computer hardware
associated with these activities would also be provided. AFH agreed to
recruit the experts in accordance with Bank guidelines. Assurances to that
effect were obtained during negotiations. The profile of the experts and the
cost estimates for the technical assistance are indicated in Annex 5.
Computers would also be acquired to assist the Direction des Collectivites
Locales, which is the Directorate in the Ministry of Finance and Economy (DCL)
responsible for monitoring municipal budgets, to improve the processing and
review of data related to the municipalities' budgets.



- 11 -
C. Institutional Aspects and Project Execution
3.09     The project would focus on strengthening linkages between existing
institutions responsible for land development, upgrading, and housing finance
in an effort to ensure effective control, coordination, and execution of the
project. Overall execution, management and coordination would be through ARRU
for the upgrading component and through AFH for the site servicing component.
CNEL and CPSCL would serve as the financial intermediaries controlling the
flow of funds. The institutions involved and their main responsibilities
under the project are shown in Table 1 (their description is given in Annex 6).
Table 1: MAIN INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN PROJECT
Institution                            Responsibility
1.  MOEH                  The Ministry responsible for establishing urban
policies, coordinating their implementation and
evaluating the results.
2.  Municipalities        Delegate responsibility for executing the upgrading
component to ARRU. Assist in beneficiary selection
and ensure cost recovery.
3.  ARRU                  Executing agency for the upgrading component on
behalf of the municipalities. Prepares feasibility
studies, obtains approvals from municipalities,
awards construction contracts, liaises with and
reports to the Bank.
4.  AFH                   Executing agency for the site servicing component.
Acquires, subdivides, develops and sells serviced
land, prepares all technical studies, financial and
economic analyses, awards construction contracts,
liaises with and reports to the Bank.
5.  CNEL                  Financial intermediary for the site serviciig
component. Appraises AFH subprojects, manages the
funds for site servicing, and the loans for plot
acquisition and housing construction, and partially
finances AFH f^r servicing site.
6.  CPSCL                 Channels funds to municipalities for upgrading of the
on site infrastructure works.
7.  Utility Companies    Provide water, sewerage and electricity networks.
Maintain the works and recover partially the cost
through utility charges.



- 12 -
Project Preparation
3.10     The project is in an advanced state of preparation.  For the
upgrading component, engineering studies for 16 out of the 18 sites are
complete. ARRU also obtained the approval to implement the project from all
the concerned municipalities and from both Ministries of Interior and
Finance. As for the site servicing component, all land has been acquired by
AFH and the subdivision plans for all sites have been completed. Most of the
subdivisions have already been approved by the municipalities concerned; the
remaining would be approved before the end of 1986.
The Upgrading Component
3.11     ARRU would act on behalf of the municipalities as the implementing
and coordinating agency for the upgrading component. It would enter into
agreements with the municipalities and the utility companies, and define their
roles and responsibilities under the proposed project. ARRU would establish
the land boundaries needed for its intervention, expropriate and/or acquire
the designated area, and compensate or rehouse those affected by demolition.
It would have studies and bid documents prepared by consultants and review and
appraise them, coordinate with the ministries and municipalities and obtain
their approval on all project decisions. Moreover, it would supervise the
execution of the works and provide the needed cost information to ensure that
budgetary allocations are earmarked for the project. ARRU would also keep
track of disbursements, prepare the project accounts, submit the subprojects
to the Bank for approval and report to the Bank on all matters related to the
upgrading component.
3.12     ARRU is an active and efficient organization, capable of executing
the project. It has on its board representatives from all the ministries
involved in the urban sector, as well as from the national utility companies.
The president of ARRU is a dynamic individual who has mastered the task of
managing upgrading projects. In the years since its establishment, ARRU has
grown rapidly, attracted a highly qualified staff of professionals and is
performing very competently under the Third Urban Project. It clearly has
established itself as the lead agency for upgrading in Tunisia.
3.13     A draft of the prototype agreement (convention) between ARRU and the
municipalities was agreed at negotiations. The agreement defines in detail
the relationships and obligations of both ARRU and the municipalities for
execution of the upgrading component. For each subproject the signature of
the related agreement with the municipality concerned would be an eligibility
criteria for the subproject. Draft agreements between ARRU and the utility
companies were also dgreed upon during negotiations, defining the obligations
and duties of the parties in executing the upgrading component. Their
signature would be a condition of effectiveness of -he loan.
3.14     ARRU is receiving technical assistance through a cooperation
agreement with the Italian Government. The assistance which includes two
experts in urban planning, computerization, and the training of ARRU's staff
through seminars and fellowships, is being provided as part of the



- 13 -
requirements for the Third Urban Development Project. The Government assured
the Bank that the ongoing technical assistance to ARRU would be maintained and
that through that assistance an urban planner and an engineer would be
employed up to June 30, 1987.
3.15     As under both the Second and Third Projects, CPSCL channels project
funds to the municipalities for the upgrading component by means of a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Government (Annex 7). The agreement
defines the role of CPSCL and its borrowing terms from the Government for
onlending to the municipalities. The agreement was reviewed and agreed during
negotiations and its signature would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The management of CPSCL's resources is handled by the Economic Development
Bank (BDET). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the current
management agreement between CPSCL and BDET would be maintained during the
execution of the proposed fourth project.
3.16     For a municipality to obtain a loan from CPSCL for a subproject, a
decree must be promulgated authorizing borrowing. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that it would take all necessary measures to enable the
municipalities to borrow. The municipalities would also enter into an
agreement with CPSCL for each subproject to define the total estimated cost of
the subproject and the terms and conditions of the related loan. A prototype
of this agreement was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
The Site Servicing Component
3.17     AFH would be the implementing agency for this component; it would be
responsible for the subdivision, servicing and sale of the land included in
the pipeline. It would prepare the feasibility studies and the
financial/economic technical and bid documents for appraisal by CNEL prior to
submission to the Bank for approval. It would establish plot selling prices
and would be responsible in conjunction with CNEL and the municipalities, for
the selection of beneficiaries. AFH would moreover report to the Bank on all
aspects of the site servicing component.
3.18     AFH is well staffed and is capable of carrying out its functions
under the project. It has administrative, financial, technical, studies, and
real estate divisions, with about 30 professionaL staff including 15
engineers. By the end of 1985, AFH had accumulated about 4,000 hectares at
over 80 sites. Most of its acquisitions have been in the Tunis region;
however, more recently AFH acquired sites in other cities throughout the
country. Now, AFH owns about 400 hectares outside the Tunis regiun.
3.19     AFH's mode of operation and land selling policies nevertheless need
improvement. At present, AFH establishes the selling price of its serviced
land reserved for individual dwellings at cost of acquisition and servicing
plus administrative and financial overheads. It requires full payment by
beneficiaries before or on delivery of individual plots. AFH plots range in
size between 250 mz and 650 m2, which tends to exclude their acquisition
by the low-income segment of the population. AFH's current sales policies do
not allow auction, selling for profit, or at differential prices/mz for



- 14 -
plots of different sizes, uses, or locations, (except for land reserved for
commercial activities) thus precluding the possibility of cross-subsidies to
lower income groups. To permit AFH to better finance its land acquisition
with no Government subsidies, and to establish land selling prices compatible
with market conditions, AFH agreed to introduce the following measures:
(i) establish a plot pricing system that would ensure a continuous flow of
funds to AFH by selling land at its replacement cost. The cost would include
the actualized price of the serviced land, the financial charges and all the
expenses incurred by AFH for administration, studies and overhead; (ii) ensure
effective cross-subsidies between servicc.d lots in favor of the smaller lots.
The Minister of Equipment and Housing has approved the introduction of the two
measures and directed AFH to introduce them. AFH has already started to apply
the measure related to plot pricing. The introduction of the measures stated
above would be a condition of disbursement for the site servicing component.
AFH also would improve its accounting system, and separate in the entries the
land held in reserve from the land actually sold. The technical assistance
provided -.irough the loan would help AFH to improve its accounting system and
to manage efficiently its land stock.
3.20     At the time of its inception in 1973, AFH was granted TD 2 million
from the government and has since borrowed TD 5 million from the government.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would submit to the
Bank before June 30, 1987, a plan to convert AFH debt to the Government into
equity and that it will take into consideration the Bank's comments on the
plan and implement it accordingly.
3.21     CNEL.  CNEL is the major lender for housing in Tunisia.  Subscribers
to CNEL savings contracts may borrow up to twice the amount saved plus
accumulated interest, with a ceiling of TD 13,000. The contractual savings
period is either four or five years at the subscriber's choice, which entitles
the saver to a 10- or 15-year loan, respectively. Interest on savings was
recently raised to 6.75 percent p.a. from 4 percent and the Government subsidy
was abolished. CNEL's initial target was to attract 8,000 savings contracts
annually; actually the results were much greater than expected.  At the end of
1984, savings contracts numbered 141,648 for a savings amount of TD 275.1
million.  Recent trends (1980-1984) show an average increase of about 20,875
savings contracts and TD 23.1 million in net savings mobilized.  CNEL also
prefinances housing construction by SNIT and the private developers.  Since
1978, it also has managed the Fonds pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries
(FOPROLOS) which is a worker's housing fund and grants housing loans to people
whose wages are lower than one and a half times thie SMIG. At present, the
Government and the Bank, through the ongoing discussion on housing finance,
are devising measures to improve CNEL's operational and lending policies
(para. 2.16).
3.22     Under the project, CNEL would be responsible for the the financial
aspects of the site servicing component. It would manage Government and Bank
funds for the provision of loans to beneficiaries for acquiring serviced plots
and for the construction of a housing unit and would partially finance the
site servicing component through a Management Agreement with the Government



- 15 -
(Annex 8) and a Financing Agreement with AFH. The draft Financing Agreement
and the draft Management Agreement were reviewed at appraisal and agreed at
negotiations. The signature of both agreements would be conditions of loan
effectiveness.
3.23     The credit department within CNEL has satisfactory experience and is
responsible for appraising of all short and long-term financing. The
short-term financing section within the department would appraise the site
servicing subprojects prepared by AFH.
D. Financial Features
3.24     The total cost of the project would be US$67.4 million.  The detailed
cost estimates were based on preliminary studies and analysis of current
tender prices for projects of similar nature.  Bank financing is based on the
foreign cost of each component estimated at 45 percent for upgrading, 42
percent for sites and services and 100 percent for technical assistance
(Annexes 3,9).
3.25     Allocation of Funds.  On the basis of the identified subprojects the
proposed loan of US$30.20 million covering the foreign exchange costs of the
project would be channeled as follows:
*i)  US$7.52 million would be onlent to CPSCL by means of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(ii)  US$14.53 million managed by CNEL through a Management Agreement
between the Government and CNEL out of which CNEL would relend
(a) US$7.85 million through a Financing Agreement between CNEL and
AFH for financing the servicing of sites, and (b) US$6.68 million for
the provision of construction loans; and
(iii)  US$8.15 million by means of budgetary allocations to the ministries
and agencies for the provision of primary infrastructure for the
upgrading component (roads, water, sewerage, drainage, electricity
and public lighting), community facilities, and technical assistance.
3.26     Local cost requirements of US$37.2 million would be financed by the
Government (US$24.2 million) and two of the agencies involved in the project -
CNEL (US$6.0 million) and AFE (US$7.0 million). The charts in Annex 10 show
the amounts and flow of project funds and the related tables (Annex 11) show
the cash flows for upgrading, and site servicing. The financing plan is
summarized in Table 2.
3.27     On-Lending Terms.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be made to
the Government of Tunisia at the standard variable interest rate with a
repayment period of 20 years including three years of grace. The loan and the
counterpart funds would be onlent through CPSCL and CNEL on the following
terms and conditions: (i) US$12.9 million to the municipalities through CPSCL



- 16 -
for 20 years including three years of grace at cost of borrowing at date of
loan agreement for Bank funds and at 2-4 percent for Government funds '
(which is expected to produce an average weighted interest rate of about 6
percent); (ii) US$13.5 million through CNEL to AFH for servicing the sites at
11.0 percent for three years and US$12.7 million through CNEL to beneficiaries
for construction loans at 8.25 percent for beneficiaries with incomes higher
than one and a half times the SMIG and at 7 percent for those with incomes
equal to or lower than one and a half times the SMIG, in both cases for 20
years with two years of grace. The foreign exchange and the interest rate
risks associated with the Bank's onlent funds would be borne by the
Government. The remainder of the funds represents US$21.3 million which would
be channeled through budgetary allocations to the Ministry and agencies
involved in the project and US$7.0 million of AFH contribution through its
land and services.
Table 2:   FINANCING PLAN (UPGRADING, SITE SERVICING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)
(In Millions)
Government        IBRD           AFH          CNEL         Total
TD     US$    TD    US$    TD       US$   TD    US$    TD
8pSrading
Land and rehousing       2.24   3.20  0.25   0.36    -         -      -     -    2.49  3
Offsite Infrastructure  1.96   2.80  2.70   3.86    -          -      -     -    4.66  6
Onsite Infrastructure   3.81   5.44  5.26   7.51    -          -      -     -    9.07 12
Utility Connections       1.33   1.90  1.49   2.13    -        -      -     -    2.82  4
Community Facilities    0.73   1.04  0.82   1.17    -          -      -     -    1.55  2
Construction Loans         -     0.00  2.37   3.39    -        -    2.11  3.01  4.48  6_
Admin. and O.H.           2.92   4.17   -       -       -      -      -     -    2.92  4
Subtotal             12.99  18.56 12.89  18.41    -         -    2.11  3.01 27.99 39
Site Servicing
Land                       -      -      -      -      3.18   4.54   -      -    3.18  4
Offsite Infrastructure  0.11   0.16  0.16   0.23    -          -      -     -    0.27  0
Onsite Infrastructure   3.87   5.53  5.33   7.61    -          -      -     -    9.20  3
Construction Loans         -      -    2.31   3.30    -        -    2.09  2.99  4.40  6
Admin. Studies and O.H.  -        -      -      -      1.71   2.45   -      -    1.71  2
Subtotal              3.98   5.69  7.80  11.14   4.89   6.99  2.09  2.99 18.76 26
Technical assistance       -      -    0.44   0.63    -        --     -     -    0.43  0
TOTAL                    16.97  24.24 21.13  30.19   4.89   6.99  4.20  6.00 47.18 67_ 
1/ 2 percent for non-income generating components and 4 percent for income
generating components.



- 17 -
3.28     Consolidation of Loans.  After completion of the site servicing
works, CNEL would consolidate the short-term financing for AFH land servicing
into loans to beneficiaries for acquisition of serviced plots at the same
interest rates as for the construction loans (para. 3.27).
3.29     Interest Rates.  The expected long-term inflation rate projected by
the Bank for Tunisia is about 7 percent for 1986 and beyond.  The interest
rates in the project are as follows:
(i)  rates charged to the municipalities average about 6 percent.  The
Government believes that these rates are reasonable because: (a) the
loans are given for the fulfillment of basic needs which in many
countries are financed by grants from the Central Government, (b) the
statutory limitations the Central Government is imposing on Local
Government's taxation ability, (c) the low-income level of
beneficiaries, and (d) the loans to local communities are virtually
risk free and the interest rate is net of the risk premium normally
included in commercial rates;
(ii)  the interest rates charged to AFH by CNEL at ll.0 percent is
comparable to the commercial rates in the country; and
(iii)  the interest rates charged to the beneficiaries for construction and
plot acquisition loans to 7.0 and 8.25 percent (para. 3.27) are
compatible with the long-term inflation rates.
3.30     The Government has recognized the need to eliminate all interest rate
subsidies. It announced increases in interest rates in the industrial and
commercial sectors and more recently in the housing sector where it raised the
interest charged by CNEL to its savings accounts holders for construction
loans to 8.25 percent. The interest rate issue is addressed in the Bank's
Housing Finance Sector Review and in the discussions currently underway
(paras. 2.15-2.16). A Municipal Finance Study currently underway is
addressing the methods to increase the interest rates charged by CPSCL to the
municipalities. During negotiations, it was agreed that the borrower would
review annually with the Bank not later than December 1 of each year and until
project completion the interest rates in the housing sector, taking into
consideration the cost of capital to the financial intermediaries concerned
and the general trend of interest rates in Tunisia, and promptly after each
review take the necessary action to ensure that the financial intermediaries
apply in their loans an interest rate permitting them to cover their cost of
capital and enable them to earn a sufficient spread to cover their operations
cost.
3.31     Retroactive Financing.  To speed up implementation, the Government
will commit the needed funds in its 1986 budget to rehouse the families
displaced by the need to demolish about 200 houses to make way for
infrastructure works in the upgrading areas. Since these works are an
integral part of the project and essential to ensure an early start, the Bank
loan would provide about US$0.4 million in retroactive financing for rehousing
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1986.



- 18 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.32     Procurement of civil works for upgrading and site servicing would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Since the
pipeline of subprojects would be (i) dispersed over about 40 sites across the
country, (ii) committed separately for each category of works over a period of
three years, and (iii) executed and administered by different agencies and
parastatal utility companies over a four to five-year period, it would not be
feasible to aggregate the contracts into packages large enough to attract
international contractors through ICB. Thus, all contracting would be
procured through local procedures. The local competitive b!dding procedures
in Tunisia are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency
in the execution of the project. There are. however, a few procedures which
are inconsistent with Bank procurement guidelines. During negotiations.
agreement was reached regarding the changes needed to make these procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.33     SONEDE and STEC, the two utility companies would execute the water
and electrical works according to their procedures. They would call for
tenders to select contractors for local bidding or enter into contracts with
ARRU and AFl and execute the works by force account. The works to be executed
by force account are unsuitable for competitive bidding as their quantities
cannot be defined accurately in advance, the material used must be compatible
with the existing material used by the utility companies for ease of
maintenance and moreover, no contractor would be interested in executing such
usually small and dispersed works. The two utility companies normally execute
such works and have the experience to ensure its rapid and efficient
completion.
3.34     The large number of small contracts (about 300) in the project, their
similarity and the capability of the borrower agencies to procure efficiently
would make the prior review of most of these contracts unnecessary. Only
contracts exceeding US$1.0 million would be forwarded to the Bank for review
before award. All other contracts would be sent to the Bank after their award
prior to the first application for withdrawal.
3.35     Computer equipment costing about US$70,000 in aggregate would be
bought off the shelf by AFH and DCL after obtaining quotations from three
suppliers. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.
Disbursement
3.36     The proposed loan of USM3O.2 million would be committed over a period
of three years (December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1989). The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed in nine years (Annex 12). This is consistent with the
disbursement profile of Bank loans in the EMENA region. Accordingly, the
closing date would be set at December 31, 1994.



- 19 -
Table 3:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Thousands)
Procurement Method
LCR          Other      S!toppjng Total Cost
Force Account
Offsite infrastructure             8,035.86           -                   8,035.86
Roads                              9,261.43          -                    9,b1.43
Sewerage and drainage              13,399.84         -                   13,399.84
Water                               3,089.87     1,203.77                 4,293.64
Electricity and public lighting   1,983.46         837.55                 2,821.01
Utility connections                 3,904.94       7O.00                 4,604.94
Community facilities                9,533.fl      _   -                   2,533.61
Subtotal civil works           42,209.C1      2,741.32                44,950.33
Computer equipment                      -            -           70.00        70.00
Total                              42,209.01     2741.32         70.00   45,020.33
Note:  Total cost in table does not include cost of land US$9,145.02,
construction loans US$12,694.54, technical assistance, and the related
administrative expenses and overhead.
3.37     Disbursement for each item would be as follows:
(i)  civil works:  58 percent of total expenditures;
(ii)  rehousing 50 percent of total expenditures;
(iii)  construction loans for infill plots and site servicing plots:
54 percent of total amount of these loans; and
(iv)  technical assistance and computers:  100 percent of total
expenditures.
The Bank would not finance the cost of land acquisition, administrative
expenses, overhead, and engineering studies.
3.38     Disbursement would be made on the basis of standard Bank disbursement
procedures with the exception of construction loans, and expenditures for
civil works below $20,000. For these items, statements of expenditures would
be required. The Borrower would retain all documentation to support the
disbursements and will keep records of all expenditures for examination by
Bank missions.
3.39     Special Account.  A special account, for all categories for a total
amount of US$1.0 million, would be established at the Central Bank to finance
eligible expenditures under the loan, and would be replenished against
standard withdrawal applications. The Central Bank would keep separate



- 20 -
accounts and documentation to support all withdrawals and replenishment to the
special accounts and audit such accounts by independant auditors and submit to
the Bank within six months of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
F. AccounLt and Audits
3.40     Separate accounts for each subproject would be set up to record all
project related expenditures. ARRU would prepare and consolidate the accounts
for the upgrading component. AFH would submit to CNEL the details of the site
servicing expenditures, after which the accounts would be prepared and
consolidated by CNEL. CNEL also would keep accounts for all construction and
site acquisition loans for both upgrading and sites and services. All
accounts would follow the procedures of the Tunisian Plan Comptable Commercial
wlhicl. adequately provides for recording all the expenditures.
3.41     CPSCL, CNEL, AFH, and ARRU have accounting systems based on the
Tunisian Plnn Comptable Commercial.  Each institution has agreed to keep
separate accounts for project-related financial transactions and have these
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.  In addition,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that CNEL. AFH and ARRU would have
their annual financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and submit these accounts to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.42     ARRU would be responsible for monitoring, coordinating, and
evaluating the upgrading components and AFH for the site servicing
components. Both agencies would prepare and send to the Bank (i) semi-annual
progress reports not later than six weeks from the end of each semester,
(ii) a socioeconomic study at completion of each subproject, and (iii) a
project completion report at the end of project implementation. The
semi-annual reports would include a performance evaluation of the implementing
agencies, the financial status for the project, and key indicators to measure
the progress in executing and fulfilling project objectives. The
socioeconomic report would analyze the impact of each of the subprojects and
the benefits accruing to the beneficiaries as a resuAlt of the project. The
completion report would summarize the administrative, institutional and
executing experience gained during implementation. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that both ARRU and AFH would prepare the reporta
mentioned above.
H. Supervision
3.43     Bank supervision of the project would require about 100 man-weeks
over the period of project implementation. The basic staff required would
include an architect/engineer and a financial analystfeconomist. ARRU and AFH
would be responsible for collecting the relevant data that will form the basis
for project supervision.



- 21 -
IV. COST RECOVERY. BENEFICIARIES SELECTION AND AFFORDABILITY
A. Cost Recoverv
4.01      About TD 38 million or about 80 percent of total project costs would
be xecovered in rea_ terms directly from the project benefic,aries as follows:
for the upgrading c=mponent, the cost of on-site infrastructure works would be
recovered through improvement charges under the frontage tax (para. 4.05) and
the cost of utility connection and part of the off-site infrastructure through
utility tariffs. Tre cost of land acquisition associated with the
regularization of ownership and the cost of land for the infill plots would be
recovered through d_rect sales.  For the site servicing component, the cost of
land and servicing would be rocovered directly through sales and loan
repayments to CNELT tpara. 4.04).  Construction loans under both the upgrading
and site servicing components would be recovered through loan repayments to
CNEL. The remaining 20 percent of the total project cost would be funded
through budgetary allocations and would be recoverable under the central
taxation system. This represents the cost of construction and land for
comun.ity facilities, the part of off-site infrastructure not covered by the
utility tariffs, upgrading studies, and the implementing agencies'
admiuistration and overhead. The cost recovery would ensure the replicability
of similar projects. Table 4 shows the recovery mode for all project
components.
Table 4: COST RECOVERY (TD Million)
Recovery Mode             Total    Total Not
Total  Direct    Loan     Improv.  Utility  Directly    Directly
Main Component        Cost   Sales   Repayment  Charges  Tariffs  Recovered  Recovered
Land Acquisition            5.7    2.5       2.1       0.0      0.0        4.6         1.1
Off-site Infrastructure     4.9    0.1       0.2       0.0      1.6        1.8         3.1
On-site Infrastructure     18.7    2.8       6.5       9.4      0.0       18.7         0.0
Utility Connections         2.8    0.0       0.0       0.0      2.8        2.8         0.0
Community Facilities        1.6    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0         1.6
Construction Loans          8.1    0.0       8.1       0.0      0.0        8.1         0.0
Technical Assistance        0.4    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.4
Admin., Overhead & Studies  5.0    0.6       1.3       0.0      0.0        1.9         3.1
Cost Recovered
in Real Terms           47.2    5.9      18.2       9.4      4.4       37.9         9.3
Z of Total     100.0   12.5      38.6      20.0      9.3      80.4         19.6
4.02      The pricing policy for land sales would ensure both affordability and
effective cost recovery. AFH plots would be differentially priced according to
size and location to ensure the affordability of the smaller plots to the
low-income segments while in upgrading, cross-subsidies through direct sales of
infill plots would reduce improvement charges paid by the occupants of existing
plots. The prototype AFH sales contract for each subproject was reviewed by
the Bank and the submission of an acceptable sales contract for each subproject
would be a condition of elibigility for that subproject.



- 22 -
B. Beneficiary Selection
4.03     For the upgrading component, beneficiaries would be selected by a
committee comprising the relevant municipality and ARRU. Selec:tion would be
made on the following basis:
(i) first priority would be to families whose houses would be demolished
in order to execute the infrastructure works;
(ii) second priority would be to families whose houses would be demolished
for reasons of safety, health or precariousness;
(iii) third priority would be to other families living on the site who own
no house and would have to leave their lodgings in order to reduce
overcrowding; and
(iv)  then on the basis of priorit: of application for those owning no
house and with mon"h', household income equal to or less than two
times the SMIG. The family situation (age, number of dependents)
would also be taken into consideration.
For the serviced sites, a selection committee including AFH, CNEL and the
municipality concerned would select the beneficiary. Beneficiaries would be
selected according to (iv) above provided they can document sufficient income
to afford the purchase of the plots. An upper limit of 30 percent of the
plots would be reserved for subscribers of CNEL and FOPROLOS savings plans.
The selection criteria were discussed at appraisal and were agreed at
negotiations.
C. Financial Terms and Conditions to Beneficiaries
4.04     For acquiring a serviced plot, the beneficiaries would make a total
down payment of 30 percent of the plot price of which one-third would be paid
at the time of reservation of the plot and two-thirds in installments during
site servicing works. The balance of the price would be financed through a
plot acquisition loan from CNEL upon plot delivery at 8.25 percent or
7 percent per annum depending on the beneficiaries income (para. 3.27), over
20 years with a two year grace period during which the beneficiary would pay
only interest. An optional construction loan would also be made available on
the same terms as the plot acquisition loans.
4.05     The frontage tax used to recover the cost of on-site infrastructure
for the upgrading component would be collected by the municipalities over a
period of 20 years at an interest which shall include the cost of borrowing by
the municipalities from CPSCL. ARRU would provide the municipalities with all
the documentation needed for the establishment of the frontage tax for that
subproject as soon as all the civil works contracts for a subproject have been
concluded. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
D. Income Profiles, Affordability Analysis and Urban Poverty Impact
4.06     The 1984 income distribution of the urban population of Tunisia was
estimated by the mission on the basis of the 1980 household consumption survey



- 23 -
and the increase of private consumption per capita during 1980-84 assuming no
changes in the urban income distribution pattern. As shown in Annex 13, the
median urban household income was TD 183/month in 1984. Incomes of the
population in most of the sites proposed under the upgrading pipeline were
identified in the socio-economic. surveys carried out by ARRU in 1984. The
median income in these sites averages TD 93/household/month and ranges between
55 and 140 TD/household/month.
4.07     UPgrading.  As shown in Annex 14, Table 1, the average improvement
charge is TD 2.7/household/month or 3.1 percent of the average median income
in the sites under the proposed pipeline for which adequate incofie and cost
information is currently available. When the percentage of income spent on
upgrading is increased to 8 percent, improvement charges would be affordable
by an average of 96 percent of the beneEiciaries of the reviewed sites. The
table also shows that the smallest infill plot option and a construction loan
would be affordable by all the families to be rehoused, since they would not
spend more than 25 percent of their monthly income.
4.08     Serviced Sites.  As shown in the same Annex, Table 2, loan
repayments for acquisition of the smallest AFH plot category (80m.) average
TD 6.5/household/month aud would be affordable by 95 percent of all urban
households (i.e. all households with incomes of more than TD 65/month). The
first (and largest) portion of the down payment required at the start of land
development works (10 percent of the plot price) would not exceed 2 months'
income. The least cost option of an AFH plot/construction loan would be
affordable by 92 percent of all urban households (i.e. all households with
incomes of more than TD 79/month).
Urban Poverty Impact
4.09     On the basis of the subproject pipelines reviewed, 38 percent of the
beneficiaries would be urban poor benefitting from 36 percent of project
costs. In the upgrading pipeline, 38 percent of the beneficiaries would be
urban poor benefitting from 39 percent of this component's costs and in the
site servicing pipeline, 37 percent of the serviced plots would be affordable
by the urban poor who would benefit from 30 percent of this component's costs.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
5.01     The project would assist the Tunisian Government in alleviating the
problems associated with poorly serviced communities and would extend the
benefits of upgrading such communities to practically every region of the
country. It also would provide plots at prices affordable to the low-income
groups, thus solving one of the main constraints affecting the housing
market. The proposed project would benefit directly about 150,000 persons.
Some 90,000 of these persons would benefit from improvement of urban services
in their current residence and about 60,000 from acquisition of serviced plots
at low prices. The project is geared towards the low income segments of the



- 24 -
population, since all the beneficiaries would be below the 50th percentile of
the urban income distribution and their median income corresponds to about the
15th percentile of the urban income distribution (see Annex 13 and data
available on file on the income distribution of beneficiaries for each site).
The project would also indirectly benefit the population of settlements and
owners of vacant land adjacent to the project areas through their proximity to
improved services and environment.
5.02     Through its institutional approach, the project would develop the
capabilities of the two main executing agencies, ARRU and AFH, to identify,
study, and execute a pipeline of subprojects on the basis of the agreed
criteria. This is a major contribution to the institution building of these
two agencies and would help to improve their respective approaches to
upgrading and land development. The project would also enhance CNEL's
appraisal capabilities and extend its its activities to finance land servicing
and acquisition.
B. Economic Impact and Rates of Return
5.03     The direct project benefits from the proposed investments can be
quantified on the basis of the beneficiaries' willingness to pay for the
services provided. The latter is reflected in (i) the difference between
existing rents in areas to be upgraded and rents in sites with similar level
of service and community facilities as proposed under the project, and
(ii) the estimated market value of serviced land to be developed under the AFH
pipeline. The indirect project benefits to neighboring areas also would be
reflected by increased rental and land values; however, since their
measurement is difficult, they have not been included in the benefit stream.
5.04     The economic rate of return of the combined subprojects of the
reviewed pipelines is estimated at 20 percent. The rates of return of the two
pipelines and tlie results of sensitivity analysis are shown in Table 5, while
details are presented in Annex 15. It is expected that the rates of return of
all individual subprojects financed under the loan would be within the same
range.
Table 5: INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF THE PROJECT
ARRU         AFE        Total
IERR with:                         Pipeline    Pipeline    Project
(Z)         (2)          (X)
- Base case                             20.7        18.2        20.6
- Cost increase by 20Z                  16.8        11.8        15.9
- Benefits decrease by 20%              16.1        10.5        15.1
- Cost increase by 10% and
benefits decrease by 10%          16.5         11.2        15.6
- Benefits delayed one year             17.3        13.7        16.6



- 25 -
C. Project Risks
5.05     In the past, AFH catered only to middle- and upper-income groups and
developed plots ranging from 250-650 mz. It also relied on prefinancing its
site servicing through its future beneficiaries. Under the project, AFH will
develop much smaller plots (between 80 m2 and 160 mz) and will have to
adjust to the land servicing financing system proposed by the project.
Although these changes may seem difficult to introduce, the risk associated
with them is reduced through AFH's willingness to adjust its policies and the
steps it has already taken to change its methods of operation.
5.06     For the first time, the sites are dispersed in many small localities
throughout Tunisia, and as a result there will be a large number of small
construction contracts, which implies a heavy administrative load. The risk
would nevertheless be reduced by the reinforcement of ARRU's staff and by the
experience it gained through its involvement in the Third Urban Project. The
technical assistance provided to AFH under the proposed project would improve
its ability to cope with this issue.
VI. ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS, AND RECOMENTNDATIONS
6.01     Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the following:
-    Submission of all documents related to subprojects prior to December
31, 1989 (para. 3.07).
-    Recruitment by AFI of the experts in accordance with Bank guidelines
(para. 3.08).
-    Maintaining the employment of an urban planner and an engineer
through the ongoing technical assistance to ARRU up to June 30, 1987
(para. 3.14).
- Maintaining the management agreement between CPSCL and BDET
(para. 3.15).
Making all the arrangements to enable municipalities to borrow from
CPSCL (para. 3.16).
Introduction of reforms to AFH (para. 3.19).
Submission of a plan before June 30, 1987 to convert AFH debts into
equity (para. 3.20).
Annually review the interest rates in the housing sector not later
than December 1 of each year and ensure that the financial
intermediaries apply in their loans an interest rate permitting them
to cover their cost of capital and enable them to earn a sufficient
spread to cover their operations cost (para. 3.30);
LCB procurement procedures to be acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.32);



- 26 -
Keeping separate accounts and documentation to support all
withdrawals and replenishments to the special account (para. 3.39).
Auditing by independent auditors of CNEL, AFE and ARRU annual
financial statements and project accounts (para. 3.41).
Preparation of semi-annual reports, a socioeconomic study, and
completion reports by ARRU and AFH (para. 3.42).
The selection criteria for project beneficiaries would be adhered to
(para. 4.03).
-    Provision by ARRU to the municipalities of all documents needed for
the promulgation of the decrees for the frontage tax as soon as civil
works contracts have been concluded (para. 4.05).
6.02     The following documents had been reviewed and agreed during
negotiations:
-    The eligibility criteria for subprojects (para. 3.07 and Annex 4).
-    The draft contracts between ARRU and the municipalities and between
ARRU and the utility companies (para. 3.13).
-    Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CPSCL
(para. 3.15).
-    Prototype agreement between municipalities and CPSCL (para. 3.16).
-    Draft Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL and draft
Financing Agreement between AFP and CNEL (para. 3.22).
6.03     Conditions of Effectiveness
-    Signature of the agreements between ARRU and the utility companies
(para. 3.13).
-    Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 3.15), the
Management Agreement and the AFE/CNEL Financing Agreement
(para. 3.22) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
6.04     Conditions of Disbursement of Funds Against the Related Expenditure.
-    Subprojects meet conditions of eligibility and are approved by the
Bank (para. 3.07).
-    For the site servicing component, the implementation of the measures
allowing AEH to sell land at its replacement cost and to ensure
effective cross subsidies between serviced lots (para. 3.19).
6.05     Subject to agreement on the above, the project is suitable for a loan
of US$30.2 million on standard Bank terms.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
TUNISIA - FOURTh URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACENCIES INVOLVED IN PROVtION OF SWELTER AND RELATED ASPECTS
Catgeary of Aoene1es                               Eunet1in                                    cinu
1.flUS"
- Ministry of Enuianmnt and Housina (MpE0H)
Soc1itt Nattonale  nuobili*re             Urban and rural housing Institution         Public sector housing developer
Tun1sienne (SUIT)
Agence pour la Rehabilitation et          Upgrading of infrastructure in poorly    Involved in Third and proposed
la Rinovation Urbaine (APRiR)              serviced settlements                        Fourth Bank projects
Fonds National d'Amiliration de           Upgrading of existing houses                Managed by HOEK
l'Nabitat (FUAM)
Agence Fonci1re d'Habitation (AFH)         Land assembly and development               Involved in Third and proposed
Fourth Bank projects
- Hinistry of Social Affairs IMOSA)
socidUt de Promotion des                  Rental housing agency                        Limited to social security
Logements Sociaux (SPROLS)                                                             subscribers
2. FIIUME
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOF)
Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement        Provides contractual savings and            Involved in Third and proposed
(CdELI (also under MOEH)                    finances housing construction loans          Fourth Bank projects
oFnds pour la Promotion du Logement        Finances housing for low-income             Managed by CNEL
des Salaries (FOPROLOS)                    salaried persons
-tinistrv of Planning (MOP)
Programe de Diveloppement Rural (PDR)  Finances rural housing                          Managed by the Government
3. INFRASTRUCTSIRE
- Hinistrt of Eau1ment and Housina (M4OH)
Direction de l'Amenagement du              Regional and urban physical planning
Ter;itoire COAT)
Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS) Sewage collection, disposal and                National monopoly.  Involved in
treatment                                   Second. Third and proposed Fourth
Bank projects
- Ministrv of Agriculture (MOAt
Sociite Nationale d'Exploitatian et        Water production and distribution           National monopoly.  Involved in
de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE)                                                      Second, Third and proposed Fourth
Bank projects
-Ministry of Finance and Economv
Soci1te Nationale d'Electriciti et         Power production and distribution           National monopoly.  Involved in
de Gaz (STEGt                                                                          Second. Third and proposed Fourth
Bank projects
4. MUNICIPAL SERVICES (via municipalities)
- Ministry of Interior (MOT)
Direction des Collectivitis Locales        Relation with local government: solid
waste collection. street maintenance
Caisse des Prets et de Soutien des         Finances municipal projects and             Involved in Second. Third and
Collectivites Locales (CPSCL)              infrastructure upgrading                    proposed FourLh Bank projects
(also controlled by MOF)
This table is an update of a table in the Housing Sector Review Report



- 28 -
TUNISIA:  FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            Annex 2
PROJECT PIPELINE
Site / Location      AREA (IN HA)        NUMBER OF PLOTS    TOTAL COST IN (MOO)TD
Total  Built  Exist.Infill Total  /Ha    Total   /Ha  /Plot
A Upgrading
KEBILI Nozla        29.16  24.00    800       0    800 33.33   1,152  48.01  1.44
MEDNIN Jlidet       24.00  19.14    430    90    520 27.17        959  50.11  1.84
MAKTAR El Ksiba      5.60   5.30    315    75    390 73.58        573 108.04  1.47
TOZEUR Mintakt      36.00  29.00    473   160    633 21.83        960  33.10  1.52
BEN AROUS S'Mosbah 40.00  35.40    865   252  1,117 31.55   1,783  50.38  1.60
KASSERINE Ennour  6E.00  39.90  1,080   120  1,200 30.15   2,299  57.77  1.92
5IDI BOUZID         25.00  25.00    700       0    700 28.00   1,380  55.21  1.97
6AFSA Moalla        47.00  43.00  1,180    20  1,200 2Z7.91   1,150  26.75  0.96
BEJA M'Zara         40.00  28.00  1,250       0  1,250 44.64   1,523  54.39  1.22
KAIROUAN Menchia   75.00  65.00  1,700   304  2,004 30.83   2,185  33.62  1.09
MENZEL BOURGUIBA   12.00  12.00    229   162    391 32.58   1,314 189.S0  3.36
SOUSSE El Ghardane 23.00  21.50    600   460  1,060 49.30   3,141 146.10  2.96
EL FAHS El Mechta  ll.S  11.50    300    55    355 30.87   1,228 106.80  3.46
KELIBIA Lahouache   4.80   4.80    121    24    145 30.21         529 110.26  3.65
TATAOUINE Brourmet 20.00  20.00    636       0    636 31.80       890  44.51  1.40
MOKNINE Khereddine 11.08  10.30    230    67    297 28.83         948  92.08  3.19
GABES Mintakt       38.00  36.75  1,267       0  1,267 34.48   1,709  46.51  1.35
MAHDIA              17.18  17.18    508    14    514 29.92        983  57.22  1.91
OTHERS SITES        75.00  70.00  2,100   350  2,458 35.00   3,291  47.02  1.34
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__
Subtotal  A    594.24 517.57 14,776 2.153 16,929 32.70  28,800  54.09  1.65
B Site Servicing AREA (IN HA)
------------------ Total  Social
Kasserine 8         14.69   6.00                   320 53.33      675 112.43  2.11
Fouchana            19.00  10.00                   556 55.60   1,356 135.55  2.44
Le Kef I            16.19   5.00                   278 55.60      671 134.22  2.41
Tebourba            20.00  10.00                   556 55.60   1,201 120.11  2.16
Khelidia            27.00  12.00                   667 55.58   1,498 124.85  2.25
Belli                8.00   4.00                   222 55.50      481 12e.19  2.17
Sejnane             20.82   8.32                   458 54.09      945 113.59  2.10
Siliana II           7.23   5.08                   278 55.60      594 118.72  2.14
Bargou               6.00   3.00                   167 55.67      340 113.23  2.03
Dahtani             14.33   8.00                   444 SS.50      871 108.82  1.96
Tabarka             20.00  18.80                   556 55.60   1,152 115.21  2.07
Zaghouan            20.00  12.00                   667 55.5B   1,617 134.75  7.42
Zriba               12.00   6.00                   333 55.SO      671 111.80  2.01
Gabes I             30.00  10.00                   556 55.60   1,471 147.06  2.64
Tataouine           20.00  10.00                   556 55.60   1,168 116.82  2.10
Kairouan            30.00  10.00                   556 55.60   1,290 128.95  2.32
Sbiba                7.08   4.00                   222 55.50      439 109.78  1.98
Skhira              ll.SS   6.00                   333 S5.50      652 108.71  1.96
Nafta               16.00   8.00                   444 55.50   1,012 126.45  2.28
Mareth              11.56   6.00                   333 55.50      652 108.61  1.96
Subtotal  B    331.45 153.32                  8494 55.40  18,756 122.33  2.21
Total A+B          925.69 670.99 14,776 2,153 25,423 37.89  46,756  69.68  1.84



- 29 -
Annex 3
Summary Cost Estimate By Main Component
-----------------------------------------
TO Million          USS Million        Foreign
Exchange
Component              Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total      X
A Upgrading Pipe Line
_______________________
Land Acquisition        1.99   0.00   1.99   2.85   0.00   2.85      0.0%
Rehousing               0.13   0.13   0.25   0.18   0.18   0.36     50.0%
Off Site Infrastructure 1.38   1.96   3.34   2.80   2.77   4.77     58.0%
On Site Infrastructure  2.94   4.06   6.99   4.20   5.79   9.99     58.0%
Utility Connections     0.91   1.26   2.18   1.31   1.80   3.11     58.0%
Community Facilities    8.58   0.70   1.20   0.72   0.99   1.71     58.0%
Construct. Loans        1.70   2.04   3.74   2.43   2.91   5.34     SS.8%
Admlnist. OH & Studies  2.39   0.00   2.39   3.42   0.00   3.42      0.0%
--------------------------------------------------
Base Cost A            11.94  10.14  22.08  17.06  14.48  31.55     45.9%
Contingencies           3.20   2.72   S.91   4.57   3.88   B.45     45.9%
Total Cost A          15.14  12.85  28.0B  21.64  18.36  40.00     45.9%
-----------------------------------------------------------------__------
B Site Servicing Pipe Line
_______________________
Land Acquisition        2.4B   0.00   2.48   3.55   0.00   3.55      O.8%
Off Site Infrastructure 0.09   0.12  0821   0.12   0.17   0.30      58.0%
On Site Infrastructure  2.98   4.11   7.09   4.25   5.87  10.13     58.0%
Construction Loans      1. 9   1.98   3.67   2.36   2.88   S.24     55.8%
Admnist. OH & Studies  1.47   0.00   1.47   2.10   0.00   2.10       0.O%
--------------------------------------------------
Base Cost B             8.71   6.21  14.92  12.38   8.93  21.31     41.9%
Contingencies           2.24   1.60   3.84   3.20   2.2B  5.48      41.7%
Total Cost 8          10.95  7.81  18.76  15.58  11.21  26.79      41.9%
C Technical Assistance    0.00   0.36   0.36   0.00  8.S1   0.51    10W.0%
Contingencies           0.00   0.07   0.07   0.00   0.10 8.10    100.0%
Total Cost C           0.00   0.43   0.43   0.00   0.62   0.62   1Z.0%
-----------------------------------------------------------------________
D Total Base Cost        20.65  16.71  37.36  29.45  23.93  53..;8    44.8%
E Contingencies           5.44   4.39   9.82   7.77   6.27  14.03     44.8%
F Total Cost             26.09  21.10  47.18  37.22  30.19  67.41     44.8%



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
A. Upgrading
1. ARRU would present to the Bank a file containing the preliminary studies,
the cost estimates and the implementation schedule for the sites selected
out of the identified pipeline for approval. Prior to Bank's approval,
the agreement between ARRU and the concerned municipality must be signed.
The Bank's final approval to finance the site would require:
(a) preliminary designs be acceptable economically and technically;
(b) the financial plan be satisfactory. This implies that a decree
allowing the municipality to borrow from CPSCL for at least 58
percent of needed funds be promulgated. A municipality is allowed to
borrow from CPSCL if its debt ceiling does not exceed 15 percent of
its operating cost. The balance of the needed funds could be from
the municipality's own resources, other government programs;
(c) a minimum acceptable density of 200 persons per hectare for sites in
all governorates except those in the south where a minimum density of
150 persons/hectares is permitted. The density is calculated net of
areas needed for primary infrastructure, right of way and main
comunuity facilities;
(d)  Off-site infrastructure works be approved by the concerned ministries
and authorities and its cost not exceed 20 percent of the total civil
works cost for the site (except for some' exceptional cases where it
is warranted due to specific site conditions).
B. Site Servicing
2.       AFH would present for the Bank's approval the pr-.liminary studies,
cost estimates and implementation schedule for the sites selected out of the
identified pipeline for the site servicing component. Prior to Bank's
approval, a favorable appraisal report must be received from CNIEL. The Bank's
final approval to finance each of the subprojects would require:
(a) proposed standards be acceptable economically and technically;
(b) demand for the plots be justified and documented by plot type and
income category with priority given to low-income families;
(c) sites be within the communal perimeter and are easily serviced;
(d) cost of off-site infrastructure does not exceed 10 percent of total
cost of site servicing;



-31-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(e)  all individual plots be affordable to those families whose income La
less than 2 times the minimum monthly wage;
(f)  each subproject have a minimum of 150 plots and at least 75 percent
of plots have an area less than 130 ma for all regions except in
the south where the area is increased to less than 150 m';
(g) the density be between 50-60 dwellings/hectares in all regions except
the south where it is between 40 and 50 dwellings/hectare net of
areas needed for primary infrastructure right of way and main
community facilities;
(h) the saleable land be at least 70 percent of the subproject area with
a maximum of 30 percent for roads, open spaces and community
facilities;
(i) financial plan and cash flow demonstrate the capacity of AFE to
execute each subproject as scheduled;
Ci) submission of an acceptable model sale contract between AFB and the
beneficiary. Sales price would cover:
- land at replacement cost;
- infrastructure coat at the time of sale;
- overhead, studies, and financial charges;
(k)  indication of the nmount of cross subsidies between the price of
plots destined to low-income buyers and other plots; and
(1)  the monthly payments for acquisition of a serviced plot not to exceed
15 percent of the beneficiary monthly income or a total of 33 percent
if added to the construction loan.



- 32 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA - 'OURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Pr'ofile of Experts
1. Land ManaRement Expert
Qualifications:         University degree in law, economics or engineering
Experience:             Extensive experience in land management and use
related issues at either universities or public
agencies
Languages:              Fluent in French
Duration of Contract:   One to two years
Starting Date:          Mid 1986
Responsibilities:       The land management expert would review and study
with AFH the following:
(a) AFI policies towards land acquisition and
assembly;
(b) identify AFN future land needs;
(c) define a program and schedule for future land
acquisition;
(d) conduct feasibility and financial analysis on
land issues;
(e) assess present value of AFE land stock; and
(f) train APR staff in land issues.
In addition to the above, the land management expert would assist in
the preparation of reports on land issues and help AFE to develop a sound
policy toward land acquisition and disposal.
Before completion of his assignment, the expert would prepare a
comprehensive report on land issues with detailed recommendations for proposed
action.
2. Administration and Institution expert
Qualifications:        University degree in public administration,
management or organisational aspects of institutions
Experience:            Past experience in organisational aspects of
institutions, preferably dealing with land
development. Experienced in accounting and finance
Languages:             Fluent in French
Duration of Contract:  One to two years
Starting Date:         Mid 1986



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Responsibilities:      The administration and institution expert would:
(a) propose more efficient ways for reporting,
controlling and evaluating AFH activities;
(b) study the needs for training AFH's staff;
(c) study means to improve AFH's financial
reporting and accounting practices; and
(d) prepare and organize studies and seminars on
issues related to AFH activities.
3. Computer expert
Qualifications:        Knowledge and experience in programming and
devising computerized systems for accounting,
spread sheets, and billing and collection
Languages:             Fluent in French
Duration of Contract: 9 months to one year
Starting Date:         Mid to end 1986
Responsibilities:      The expert would establish:
(a) a computerized system to keep track of AFH land
stock and accounting system. He would also
computerize and organize the billing and
collection to and from AFH beneficiaries; and
(b) train AFH staff on the use of micro-computers.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
TUNISIA - FOURTH URMAN DEVELOPMDNT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
COSTS ESTIMATES
Tot..l Cost
Man-year       in US$ (000)
1. Foreign Expert
- Land inangement expert                           1
- Administration and inatitutional expert          1
- Accounting and computer expert                   0.75
Total                                              2.75            450
2. Computer EpuLmnts
- micro-computers, printers and related
software                                                        60
Total base Cost                                                    510
Price contingencies                                                 100
Total T.A. and computer equipment                                  610
Note: Recruitment of experts would be completed no later than December 31,
1986.



- 35 -
ANNEX 6A
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
CAISSE NATIONALE D'EPARGNE-LOGEMENT (CNEL)
1.       CNEL was established in 1974 under Law No. 74-224, which introduced
the contractual savings concept to Tunisia. It is an autonomous, public
savings and loan agency under the joint tutelage of the Ministries of Finance
and HOES. CNEL's role is to mobilize domestic savings for housing
construction by offering attractive terms to households subscribing to a
savings contract. In less than 10 years, it has become the main housing
finance institution, accounting for 33 percent of institutionally-financed
housing investment during the Fifth Plan. CNEL also has managed FOPROLOS
since 1978. FOPROLOS is a Government fund, financed by a tax on wages, that
grants loans to finance moderate cost dwellings to earners with wages up to
one and a half times the minimum wage.
2.       CNEL employs about 540 persons, it has directorates for personnel and
social development, administrative services, credits, inspection and control,
computerization, financing, exploitation and promotion, legal and claims, and
a separate division to manage FOPROLOS. CNEL has moreover, divisions for
legal studies, computerization and technical matters. Its organization chart
is attached.
3.       Subscribers to CNEL savings contracts may borrow up to twice the
amount saved plus accumulated interest, with a ceiling of TD 13,000. The
contractual savings period is either 4 or 5 years, which entitles the
subscriber to a 10 - or 15-year loan, respectively. Savings used to earn
4-percent interest p.a. compounded once a year, plus a Government bonus of 2
percent p.a. (increased to 3 percent p.a. for savings made in foreign
exchange), recently the interest paid to holders of CNEL savings contract was
increased to 6.75 percent and the Government subsidies were removed.
4.       The initial target was to attract 8,000 savings contracts annually,
but this proved to be a great underestimate of the potential. By the end of
June 1984, savings contracts numbered 141,648 for a total amount of savings of
TD 275.1 million (US$343.9 million). Recent trends (1980-1984) show an annual
average increase of about 20,875 net savings contracts and of TD 23.1 million,
but declining, in net savings mobilized. By the end of 1985, the balance
sheet showed TD 168.9 million of savings balances by savers.
5.       When the savings contracts mature, beneficiaries are entitled to a
"normal" loan, subject to the lowest of four ceilings: (i) an amount up to
twice the accumulated savings and interest; (ii) TD 8,666; (iii) a total loan
plus accumulated savings plus interest not to exceed TD 13,000, or (iv) a debt
service not higher than one-third of subscriber's income. A sample analysis,
however, shows that 48 percent of the loans exceed twice the savings, thus



- 36 -
ANNEX 6A
Page 2 of 5
indicating that CNEL's loan committee is flexible in fixing the loan amount.
The sum of the loan and accumulated savings and interest must be used to
finance either the construction, acquisition, or extension of a principal
residence. In the case of acquisition, it must be a new house built by an
MOEH-approved developer according to an MOEH-approved building permit;
extensions must be at least one-third of the size of the existing structure.
6.       The interest rate charged by CNEL for its loans was 5.5 percent p.a.,
of which 1 point is paid by the Government directly to CNEL, leaving borrowers
a 4.5 percent net interest rate. In March 1986 however, the rates were
increased to 8.25 percent and the Government subsidies were removed. Loans
are guaranteed by a first mortgage security held by CNEL. Borrowers are
required to have life insurance equal to the loan amount and fire insurance
for the house. A creditworthy co-borrower or loan insurance is also required
for borrowers aged 40 (with 5-year savings/15-year loan maturity contracts) or
46 (with 4-year savings/10-year loan maturity contracts). This is a
conservative requirement given that the life expectancy at birth is currently
61 years in Tunisia.
7.       By the end of June 1984, CNEL had granted 27,576 housing loans for a
total of TD 168.8 million, or an average loan amount of TD 6,122. About 57
percent of these loans were the advance type, 30 percent were normal and 12
percent were immediate loans. In terms of outstanding loan amounts, at the
end of 1985, the balance sheet showed TD 121.7 of outstanding mortgage loans
to savers. "he distribution is different mainly because advance loans are
consolidated into normal loans after two years.
8.       CNEL also prefinances housing construction through SNIT and private
developers and land development through AFH. The interest rate was inmreased
in 1986 to 10.5 percent nominal (11.259 APR) and the maturity up to 3 years.
By the end of June 1984, CNEL had prefinanced 42,351 SNIT dwellings amounting
to TD 179 million as well as 3,081 dwellings built by private developers
amounting to TD 13.7 million; at the end of 1985, outstanding construction
loans amounted to TD 106.2 million.
9.       CNEL currently is responsible, through an agreement with the
Municipality of Tunis, for cost recovery under the Second Urban Development
Project in Tunis and manages through a Management Agreement with the
Government, Bank and Government funds for the sites and services component in
the Third Urban Development Project. Under the proposed Fourth Project, it
would manage Government's and Bank's funds and would also appraise and finance
the site servicing component of the project through a financial agreement with
AFK; this financing is expected to be less than 12 of CNEL's lending activity
in any one year and the risk exposure is minimal.
10.      Within the scope of the project, CNEL would reinforce its credit
department to appraise AFH subprojects. The credit department, after
appraisal of the subprojects, would submit the files to CNEL's loan committee
for examination and then to CNEL's president for approval. !Te subproject
file would then be sent to the Bank for inclusion in the line of credit.



- 37 -
ANNEX 6A
Page 3 of 5
11.      At the end of 1985, CNEL's assets amounted to TD 319.07 million.  Not
all the funds so mobilized are invested in mortgage loans: at the end of
1984, only 66 percent of savings plans and 68 percent of FOPROLOS rcsources
had been converted into loans; the balance was used to provide construction
loans to developers, mainly SNIT. Because of the latter, the yield on the
loan portfolio is high (7.5 percent in 1982) given that the nominal rate on
savings loans was 5.5 percent. Since CNEL relied on savings that were
remunerated at 4 percent, it still has a comfortable spread, which at 3.3
points in 1982 was equivalent to 44 percent of its average yield on its
portfolio. Since CNEL has no capital, but only a token initial Government
contribution of US$0.5 million, the debt-equity ratio is not a meaningful
measure. However, the ratio of savings deposits and long-term debts over net
worth is high even for a financial institution (24.7:1 at the end of 1984).
Recapitalization under some form should be considered in the near future as
cash flow generation is not sufficient to ensure the needed increase in net
worth. However, as long as savings remain stable, that is new deposits
largely exceed withdrawals and account cancellations, CNEL's financiel
equilibrium is not jeopardized. CNEL's balance sheets up to 1984 are attached.
12.      CNEL's Performance.  CNEL's success in attracting a substantial
portion of household savings is indisputable although the net savings
collected peaked in 1982 (TD 27.2 million) and declined since (TD 21.8 million
in 1984). It has been, nevertheless, less successful in channeling funds into
housing loans and as a result had built up considerable liquidity. The main
reasons leading to this situation are the bottlenecks in the housing
production system as well as an inflexible approach to accommodatC changing
demand/supply conditions. Both issues are being addressed under the proposed
project.
13.      CNEL is at present studying with Bank's help and in conjunction with
the MOEH and MOF methods to improve its operation by raising the ceilings of
its loans to meet the rise in construction costs and is contemplating
extending the terms of its 5-year savings contract. It is also investigating
possibilities of diversification by starting savings and loan schemes for (i)
plot acquisition, (ii) housing improvement, and (iii) acquisition of existing
houses as well as opening of checking accounts for its beneficiaries. These
measures are in conformity with the recommendations of the green cover report
on the institutional housing finance sector in Tunisia (July 18, 1984).
14.      On the whole, CNEL is well managed, has consistently shown profit, is
capable of performing the tasks assigned to it by the proposed project of
managing Bank and Government funds for prefinancing AFH's land development
operations and of providing loans for land acquisition and housing
construction.



- 38 -
Page 4 of S
TUISTA - rain urnA. orwopnT mo.leT
CASE MATIOALK b'PCILCST(UL
UNAUDTTED BALANCE SHEETs 'gag-long (TO 000
1980          1981           1982          1983           1984         1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     7.521         14.493         27.87Z        26.030         13.875          5.562
Prefinancing of developers              34.776         30.160         37.071        67.718          99.43        106.167
Loans maturing within the year           1.315            967          2.816         3.734          4.000          4.98S
Others (short-term receivables)          4.075          3.587          5.698         16,845         S.100          2,494
Loans on special sources                     -          5.845          4.867         5.4a9          5.516               -
Nedium-term loans /a                    15.165              -              -              -              -
Long-term loans                         48.059         62.034         72.215        83.047         98,704        121.730
of which: saving loans lh            (23.6091       (35.630)       (46.712)      (63.021)       (82.089)      (100.864)
immediate loans /l         (8.299)        (7.422)        (6.374)        (5.1881       (4.153)       (16.354)
bridge loans /d           (14.351)       (15.415)       (16,425)       (12.994)      (12.462)         (2.934)
SUIT /a                    (1.800)        (3.567)        (2.704)        (1.844)             _        (1.578)
less provision for risk                  5M70           5       70                    9S          1la4           I S1s
Net loans portfolio                     47.489         61.464         71.345        82.051         97.520        120.094
Others                                       -          3.588          5.967         S.750          6.286          7.953
FOPROLOS loans                          12,034         23.989         34.197        65.975         87.238         66.367
Fixed assets (net)                         aaz          101 1011     1J3.J           1 500         2z4E          -545
Total Assets                         121I AZ       14       4.830     l          5J1                          lILA219  2 456  319.076
Current Liabili ties
Short-term debts                         8.766          6.836          6.755         6.528          5.389          4,331
Mousing savings                         61.422         78.075        105.295        131.927       150.S63        168.933
Other (short-tern payables)              5.078          7.803          9.371        16.049         IS.841         20.598
tong-tern debts                         29.047         14.811         13.11S        11.353         10.124          6.414
of whtch:
CNEL ratio /I                       (8.154)        (6.486)        (4.818)       (3.150)        (2.082)        (2.900) AL
USAIO loans ia                      (8.326)        (2.076)        (2.067)       (2.046)        (2.016)        (1.975) lt
United Arab Emirates               (10.899)        (8.325)        (6.230)                            -
maturing within the year            (1.668)             -              -         (6.157)       (6.067)        (1.539)
FOPROLOS scheme                         15.436         31.626         48.503        95.066        127,817        103.930
met worth                                4.083          5.679          7.599          8.267         11.722         14.870
of which: Government grants             (420)          (420)          (420)          (420)          (420)          (420)
Reserves                  A2-.S3i        .J52591         (7. 17.l       OJ47L Zl                   1302  -114-413
Total Liabilities                    l2LZ           144.a30 I1L5I                 ZL.Z192       lZl.456        319-076
/a  Loans made with the United Arab Emirates Fund.
/b  Loans made to contract savers, at 4.5  p.a. over 10 years for 4-year saving contracts, or over 15 years for S-year
saving contracts (now 8.2St p a. for 15 years).
4r  Loans granted in the late 19)Os to applicants for whom the 4-year minimum saving contract was waived. The
granting of new loans has been discontinued.
/4 Loans granted to CUEL beneficiaries before their saving contracts mature.
It  Socitte Natianale Immobilitre de Tunisie. Tunisia largest housing developer.  Most of CUELLs financing of SUET iS
found under Prerinancing of Promoters through 3-month loans which are rolled over for up to 2 years.
if  CaEL Is allowed to borrow from Tunisian comercial banks at 5S.S  pa.   over 10 years the equivalent to up to St of
con rcial banks' deposits. At the end of 1981. CNEL had used less than 1St of this facility.
/g  Out of thts total, CUEL is using directly only T02.1 million to grant housing loans, the rest being onlent to
other institutions.
JA  Mission estimates.



1ns S
FOURH URMN DEVOPM9 PROCT
CNEL Ogan  Chait
I mdftg(fpmrln ., r : I r-A
J g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
I scuwJ 2 I l I
. 41~~~~~~~~~~~~2
12cke4d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i --2n7sc
2ske~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 92k
GUOKMOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 40 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
AGENCE FONCIERE D'HABITATION (AFM)
1.       AFH was created together with the Tourism Land Agency and the
Industrial Land Agency under Law 73-21 in 1973. It is a non-profit
organization operating under private law authorized to assemble and service
land. AFE is under the tutelage of MOEN, it is organized into a general
directorate, a financial and administrative division, a studies technical
department, and a real estate division. It is staffed with about 30
professionals, including 15 engineers. AFE's organization chart is attached.
2.       AFE's role is to acquire, service and sell land for housing.  It also
undertakes the necessary technical studies and administers and supervises on
site construction work. AFH acquires its land through direct purchase or
exchange. It benefits also from the right of preemption and of expropriation
within authorized perimeters, in case a negotiated land purchase proves
unfeasible.
3.       AFE was set up to be a self-financing, nonprofit organization.  At
its inception, it was granted a cdpital of TD 2 million and has since borrowed
TD 5 million from the Government, in addition to an exceptional grant of
TD 187,000 in 1978. Its land is sold at cost of acquisition and servicing
plus a charge for overhead and administrative expenses. Substantial advance
payments are required from the buyer to defray the agency's operating costs
and to provide a revolving f'd for future land acquisition.  AFH's charges
are assessed as follows:
-  for individual plots reserved for housing, full payment in advance;
-  for housing plots developed by real estate developers, 60 percent
to be paid upon approval of the project, 30 percent at the start
of work, and 10 percent when the land title is transferred;
-  for commercial plots, sale to the highest bidder after the plots
are serviced and developed.
4.       At the start, AFE's activities where concentrated in the Tunis
region, but starting in 1982, it acquired land in other regions. More
recently, AFP acquired about 800 hectares out of which 48 percent would be
outside the Tunis region.



- 41 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 2 of 5
5.       Since its inception till the end of 1985, AFH has accumulated a total
of about 4,350 hectarep as follows:
Hectares
Up to end of 1981        -  2700
in 1982       -   732
in 1983       -   518
in 1984       -   198
Total         4,348
A decision to deemphasize land acquisition was made in 1984 to concentrate
more resources on the development and servicing of sites AFH already owns.
AFH developed about 560 hectares in 1982, 250 hectares in 1983, 288 hectares
in 1984, and 300 hectares in 1985.
6.       At the end of 1985, AFH's total assets amounted to TD 104.0 million
which represented a 7 percent increase over the previous year. Most of this
represents increases in works in progress and unserviced land. The high
figure for works in progress is because AFH must keep land on its balance
sheet until all legal requirements have been fulfilled, which is often several
years after the plots have been delivered. Consequently, the land turnover
rate is low (4 percent of works in progress), but is not very meaningful in
light of the above constraints. Changes in the occounting principles to
better reflect AFP's activity will be implemented under the proposed project.
7.       AEH's equity capital has not been increased since its establishment
in 1973, and 70 percent of its resources come from beneficiary advances. The
large increase of long-term debts observed in 1983 and 1984 (TD 7.4 million)
was due to the reclassification of an unserviced loan from the State. AFH
inventory of land represents a considerable asset which is undervalued in its
balance sheet. AFH's profitability at present is low (1.2 percent of average
assets in 1983) because current AFH accounting principles take land at
historical costs rather than replacement costs. At present, AFH is not in a
position to revalue its land assets to reflect the real values of such assets
due to tax implications. AFP's financial expenses are low (0.6 percent of
average assets in 1985); on the other hand, its administrative expenses are
relatively high (2.2 percent of average assets) given that almost 30 percent
of total assets are either idle (unserviced land) or financial (cash and
current assets). The coverage of current liabilities is short, even using the
best indicator, that is cash and quick current assets/liabilities vis-a-vis
contractors and land owners, which went from 0.87 in 1984 to 0.07 in 1985. In
the absence of recapitalization, the long-term debt/equity ratio stood at
1.7:1 in 1984 and 1985 which is relatively high for a non-financial
institution. The financing structure could be improved as long-term resources
(including beneficiaries' advancas) cover only 89 percent of the total land
inventories. The proposed loan component would contribute to resolve this
problem. AFH's unaudited balance sheets for the years 1981 to 1985 are
attached.



- 42 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 3 of 5
8.       AFH's mode of financing operations has reached a ceiling.  It prefi-
nancing requirement has resulted in the exclusion of groups with limited
savings capacity. Furthermore, the necessity of paying cash in advance for a
relatively large plot has drained the resources of moderate income purchasers,
who have often been forced to delay houae construction on their serviced site
for several years. AFH is now in the process of reconsidering its mode of
operation to allow the expansion of its activities. Under the project, it
will: (a) start developing smaller more efficiently designed and more
affordable plots; (b) revise its land selling policies to allow a sufficient
margin to ensure refurbishing of its land stock; and (c) differentiate its
land selling prices according to demand and location.
9.       This would be the Bank's first direct intervention with AFH.  The
total area of land to be serviced through the project is small in relation to
AFH present activities. The appraisal mission emphasized the technical/
-ccounting aspects outlined above. AEH is considered capable of carrying out
he component and the management and financing agreements with CNEL provides
sufficient assurances that the component would be appraised and carried out
efficiently.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 4 of 5
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGENCE FONCIERE D'RABITATION (AFH)
UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEETS. 1981-1985 (TD 000)
1981       1982        1983       1984       1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                          1,090        873         524         677        395
(Short-term) Receivables      7,254      2,654       4,109      4,239       4,634
Land inventories             35,389     50,594      66,995     81,881      96,695
Undeveloped                          (13,225)   (19,107)           -          -
Currently being developed            (37,369)   (47,853)   (64,912)           -
Fixed assets (Less accumu-      162         258        327         480      1,056
lated depreciation)
Other assets                    334         507        786         258      1,220
Loss                                       -           -           -          523
TOTAL ASSETS             44,229     54,886      72,741     87,535    104,000
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term Loans              5,206       5,438      5,511       4,000      4,386
Accounts Payable and
Accrued Liabilities          34,617      43,698     58,650      75,085     90,720
of which:
Purchasers  Accounts   (30,041)   (37,389)   (43,702)   (58,956)   (73,818)
Long-term debts                             707      2,608       2,561      2,561
Provisions                    1,044       1,385      1,204       1,353      1,274
Equity: State contribution   2,000        2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000
Reserves                997      1,000       2,018       2,408      2,536
Profit                          363         658        750         128         -
TOTAL LIABILITIES        44,229     54,886      72,741      87,535    104,000



- 44 -
ANNEX 6B
Page 5 of 5
TUNISIA FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AFH: ORGANIZATION CHART
President/Director Geeral
DepFyDireco
Accounts and        Studies         Technical         Real Estate         General
Administration        Division       Department         Department        Services
Branch
Off ices



- 45 -
ANNEX 6C
Page 1 of 4
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
AGENCE DE RENOVATION ET DE REHABILITATION URBAINE (ARRU)
1.       ARRU was created in August 1981 (Law 81/69) under the MOH (now MOEH)
for the purpose of assisting municipalities to improve living conditions by
upgrading existing settlements that lack minimum infrastructure. The decrees
naming a president and establishing its organizational chart were promulgated
in January 1982. Its board consists of representatives of concerned
ministries and the presidents of the three utility companies.
2.       In the five years since its establishment, ARRU has managed to
recruit highly qualified staff in a short time. ARRU is organized into a
general directorate comprising the president director general and his staff, a
technical directorate of 12 engineers/architects and assistants, a financial
division with three accountants/financial analysts, a legal department, and a
department for socio-economic studies comprising two economists, an urban
planner, a sociologist and their assistants (organization chart attached).
AIRU is receiving technical assistance through a cooperative agreement with
the Italian government. Through this assistance it obtained two experts, one
for urban planning and the other for computerization and socio-economic
studies. ARRU plans to increase its technical staff further by recruiting two
more engineers and a financial analyst to be able to cope with the proposed
fourth project.
3.       The Government has granted ARRU TD 2.6 million for its operating
budget. Its future resources will be generated from fees it charges
municipalities for its services as for example under the Third Urban
Development Project, and the proposed fourth project and future work. In
addition, it receives funds directly from Government to carry out certain
priority projects such as Bab Saadoun.
4.       At the end of 1985, total assets amounted to TD 9.9 million.  Given
that 1982 was the start-up year for ARRU the increase in assets is still very
large but does not indicate a trend.  For the same reason, comparison with
1984 has limited meaning. Sixty-six percent of total assets represented works
in progress, and 12 percent were kept in cash to finance planned
expenditures.  Since ARRU is a government executing agency, it has .o capital,
only budgetary contributions; at the end of 1985, the debt-equity ratio was
still below 0.26. In 1984 and 1985, ARRU showed small profits. Again because
it is in its start-up phase, administrative expenses were relatively high
while financial fees are negligible. Also, recovery of expenditures through
sale has not yet been a significant source of income for ARRU. All these
indicators should change substantially after a few years of operations. The
relative high short-term debts of ARRU are due to the fact that it is an



- 46 -
ANNEX 6C
Page 2 of 4
institution implementing works for its clients and as such it is normal for
ARRU to incur debts to pay the contractors for which it is reimbursed by the
municipalities at a later date. In the early stage of implementation, both
its accounts receivable and accounts payable can increase significantly. The
amount of its debts is directly related to the volume of works it undertakes.
As of the end of 1985, ARRU's overall financial situation was satisfactory and
1985 indicators confirm this situation.
5.       ARRU's President Director General (PDG) is a dynamic individual who
has been able to direct a remarkably efficient team very quickly. Its board
of directors includes the PDG's of all public utilities in Tunisia (except
P.T.T.) which gives it direct access to these agencies for the resolution of
coordination/administration issues that inevitably crop up. Under the Third
Project, ARRU has already proven itself and it is well equipped to carry out
the Fourth Project efficiently.



- 47 -
ANNEX 6C
Page 3 of 4
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGENCE DE REHABILITATION ET DE RENOVATION uBRAINE (ARRU)
AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS. 1982-1984, UNAUDITED 1985 (TD 000)
1982       1983         1984         1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                  275       1.618       1,142        1,221
Short-term receivables                 29         440          948       1.866
Inventories of work in progress       557       1,295       2.319        6,612
of which:  Bab Saadoun               (557)        (96)     (10.04)      (1,149)
Hafsisa                               (34)        (436)        (401)
Ettadh aoen                           (66)         (50)        (762)
Douar Eicher                          (40)        (162)        (727)
Krau Ouest                            (34)         (89)        (323)
Chrichi, Le Kef                      (112)        (155)        (287)
Zghadia, Jendouba                     (99)        (119)        (203)
Other                                             (268)         (43)
Fixed Assets                               57          72          150          172
TOTAL ASSETS                    918      3,.425       4.559        9.871
LIABILITIES
Short-term debts                       15         403          263            1
Other short-term liabilities            -           7           68       1,592
Projects for municipalities             -         678       1.050        4,878
Long-term debts                       500         900         800          670
Equipment Subsidy                                 168           98         118
State contribution                    401       1,300       2,300        2,600
Retained earnings/loss                  2         -31         -20          -12
TOTAL LIABILITIES               918      3,425        4,559        9,871



- 48 -                           ANNEX 6C
Page 4f 4
TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARRU: Orgnizatlon Chert
lIhwuI
Dopny Poo
Lqaw amn
Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oe
bbu.u.Ad.FsumS
DI~~~~~~~~~~~~ummu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
p,g Of_
PijctOfl                E3Ifl.PmniiDdu                          II  lke
. ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      km



- 49 -
ANNEX 6D
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJ CT INSTITUTIONS
CAISSE DE PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES COLLECTIVITES LOCALES (CPSCL)
1.       CPSCL was established as a legal entity in May 1975 superseding the
Caisse des Prets aux Communes created in 1902. CPSCL is under the double
tutelage of the Ministries of Interior, and Finance and Economy and is a
financially autonomous institution under commercial law. It has a Board of
Directors made up of two representatives of the Ministry of Finance, a
representative of the Directorate of Local Public Authorities, and a
representative of the Tunisian town confederation; it is chaired by the
General Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, with the Director General of
Local Public Authorities as its permanent secretary.
2.       CPSCL is empowered to obtain resources by borrowings from local and
international sources, from loan repayments, and from government biligetary
allocations. It lends to local public administrative bodies such as municipa-
lities, governorates and public companies, mainly utility companies. Loans
are for financing of public facilities (e.g. slaughterhouses, markets) and
infrastructure works (roads, drainage, water supply, sewerage, and street
lighting). CPSCL loans carry a 2 percent interest rate for non-income earning
projects and 4 percent for income earning projects.
3.       As CPSCL has no staff of its own, its portfolio is handled through a
management agreement with BDET. As CPSCL activities increase, it is essential
that it have its own staff and that its management be strengthened and
improved. A planned (FY85) Bauah study on municipal finance would deal with
the reforms needed to be introduced to CPSCL policies and management.
4.       The administrative procedures allowing municipalities to borrow are
relatively lengthy and cumbersome and each sub-loan requires the promulgation
of a decree to allow the municipality to borrow. The main eligibility
criterion for borrowing is, however, a mmnicipality's capacity to repay a
loan; the debt ceiling used by CPSCL is 15 percent of the borrowing
municipality's operating budget, all its sub-loans to municipalities are
granted for the maximum allowable maturity.
5.       Between 1975 and 1984, CPSCL's outstanding loans have grown more than
nine times to reach TD 37.4 million at the end of 1981, with more than
two-thirds for non-income generating projects. Since 1975, loan commitments
have fluctuated from TD 2.5 million to TD 5 million from year to year. Based
on a sample study of disbursement profiles, the average disbursement period
has shortened from about three years in the mid 1970's to about two years in
the early 1980. The average disbursement period is expected to be further
reduced in the future.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6D
Page 2 of 3
6.       Government appropriations have provided most of CPSCL's resources
since 1975, the rest steuming from loan repayments. At the end of 1984,
government funis (direct grants and appropriations from the Common Fund)
represented 51 percent of CPSCL's total resources and long-term debts amounted
to only TD 63,000. Direct government grants have gone from zero in 1975 to TD
20 million in 1984, and the 6 percent allocated from the Common Fund have
grown from TD 0.6 million to TD 18.6 million. Because interest income is
capitalized, CPSCL's net worth is growing steadily and amounted to TD 5.5
million at the end of 1984.
7.       Overall CPSCL's operations are healthy.  Given that it (i) works
mainly with grants from the Government, (ii) has no staff (it is managed and
operated by BDET staff), and (iii) does not pay a management fee ito BDET, its
spread of about 2 percentage points is all profit and is capitalized. Because
CPSCL does not usually borrow, its long-term debt/equity ratio has steadily
decreased from 17.6 percent in 1974 to 1.1 percent in 1984 and its (principal)
debt service coverage ratio has increased from 1.1:1 in 1976 and to an
estimated 36:1 in 1981. These figures show that, CPSCL is considerably
underusing its potential leverage. Financial data for operation for the
period 1974-1984 are attached.
8.       At the end of 1984, total assets amounted to TD 44.5 million (US$55.6
million), 84 percent in the form of long-term loans to municipalicies.
Although the yield is low (2 percent of average loan portfolio), this is all
profit for CPSCL since, without permanent staff, it has no administrative
expenses.
9.       Overall, CPSCL's financial situation is satisfactory.  However, this
is due to its present set-up 8a a Government window for channeling investment
financing to municipalities. At the current borrowing rates, the financial
structure and lending policy would have to be overhauled to accommodate real
financial autonomy.
10.      Under the proposed project, CPSCL is a window for channeling funds to
municipalities (as it was under the second and third projects). As stated
above, the Bank is working on a financial and management review of
municipalities and CPSCL; that study is expected to lead to reform of CPSCL.



TUNISIA - FOURTH URAN OEVELOPNET PROJECT
CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOlIJTIEHN   CCLLECTIVITES LOCALES ICPSCLI
UHAUDITED/a FINANCIAL DArA 197S-1964 iTOooOI
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1910        1981       1982      1983       1914
Balance Sheet: ASSETS
Cash /b                                                   2.046      1,031        645     2,633        154       1,995       1,917     2,783      3,042      4,377
Long term loans                                           1,955      4,370     6,913      8,893    12,692       15,368     21,791    27,483    30,761    37.421
Grants to municipalities                                    -          .7-       __3         I4        264         904     J1.515       -           914      2-6LQ
Total mssets                                        4.001      5,401      7,582    11,580    13,210       18,270      25.224    30.976    34.717    44,478
LIABILITIES
Net worth                                                 2,737      2.737     2,737      2.737      2,737       2,737       2,737     2.737      2.737      2,737
Government grant                                            -          800      1,800     4,300      4,300       7,300      11.800    14,500    16,000    20.000
Communal Fund /L                                            598      1,219      2.359     3,840      5,358       7,142      9,242    11,822    13.502    18,602
Capitalized debts of municipalities /d                      278        278        278       278        278         278         278       278        278        278
Long-term debts /g                                          387        331        278       223        166         14S         126       105         84         63
Surplus (accumulated interest income)                       -           16         87       185        337         634       1,008     1.501      2,083      2.76S
Other liabilities                                             1      __20          42         17        S4          34          33         33        33         33
Total Liabilities                                   4,001      5,401      7,581    11.580    13,210       18,270      25,224    30,976    34,717    44.471 8
Annual Oat
Loan comnitments                                          3,162      4.670     2,523      4,898      2,862       4,214        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Disbursements: Loans                                      1.955      2,464     2,597      2,096      3.692       2.956      6,113 /f  6,089       4,127     6.045
Grants                                      -          -          24         3Q0                 __ 540                  820                2,81
Total Disbursements                       1.955     2.464       2,621    2,126       4.002      3,496       6.275      6,709      5.041     8,726
Government Grant                                            -          800      1,000     2,500       -          3,000      4,500      2,700      1.500      4,000
Commu.nal Fund                                              598        620     1,140      1,481      1.518       1.784      2,100      2.580      1,680     5,100
Interest Income                                             -           15        71         98        153         2961       374        4923       582       682
Performance Indicator
Return on average total assets (t)                          -          0.3        1.1       1.0        1.2         1.9         1.7       1.8        1.8        1.7
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio            -          0.5        1.3       1.2        1.4         2.1        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
Long-term debt as X of equity /9                           12.8       10.9       9.0        7.0        5.0         4.0        3.1        2.3        1.7        1.1
Debt (principal) service coverage ratio                                1.1        2.8       4.4        6.3        26.4        36.0 /h    n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
/a  The cash balance at the end of the year is, however, checked by BOET's auditors, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company and the Tunisian fim, Cabinet
Finor.
lb  This represents CPSCL's account balance deposited at BOET.
/c Fonds Commun des Collectivites Locales established by Law No. 75-36 of May 14, 1975. 6S of its annual resources are allocated to CPSCL.
/d All the debts accrued by municipalities vis-i-vis CPSCL as of January 1, 1975 were cancelled by the Government and capitalized in CPSCL's balance
sheet.
/e  Borrowing contracted in 1946, 1955, and 1959.                                                                                                                   co
/f  Mission estimate, of which 0.429,000 were disbursed under the Second Urban Project.                               
/g  Equity is defined as the sun of net worth, capitalized debts of municipalities, and surplus.
/b  Mission estimAteO
w



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONDITIONS OF THE SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND CPSCL
1. Name of the Account
Fourth Urban Development Project subsidiary loan account.
2. Description of Loan
Loans are to be made available to municipalities for upgrading
infrastructure and community services. Specifically under the agreement,
CPSCL will finance infrastructure works, including municipal stormwater
drainage and roads, street lighting, and electrical, water supply, and
sewerage networks as well as income-generating community facilities at the
sites included in the upgrading component.
3. Eligibility Criteria
Municipal debt repayment-L' not to exceed 15 percent of the
municipality operating budget.
4. Amount and Sources of Financing
TD Million        US$ Million
Bank                     58 percent              5.3                 7.5
Government               42 percent              3.8                 5.4
100 percent              9.1               12.9
5. Terms
Project funds will be onlent by the Government to CPSCL. CPSCL will
relend the funds to municipalities at 2 percent for infrastructure works and 4
percent for income generating works, and Bank funds at cost of borrowing by
the Government for a period of 20 years including two years of grace (the
average weighted interest rate is expected to be about 6 percent). The
foreign exchange risk and the risk of nonpayment will be borne by the
Government.
6. Accounts
CPSCL would keep detailed accounts identifying resources and expenses
for each of the subprojects.
7. Audit
Within six months after the end of the fiscal year, CPSCL would
provide the Bank with audited reports and financial statements. The audits
would be performed by BDET's independent auditor.
1/ At date of appraisal, only five of the municipalities had debits exceeding
the allocated ceiling.



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONDITIONS OF THE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND CNEL
1. Name of Account
Fourth Urban Development Project special account.
2. Description of Agreement
(i) CNEL would manage the account constituted of Bank and Government
funds, CNEL's own participation and beneficiaries contribution.
(ii)  The accounts would be used to:
(a) finance AFH for servicing of its land (short-term financing);
(b) consolidate the short-term financing accounts through land
acquisition loans to beneficiaries; and
(c) provide construction loans to beneficiaries for both the
upgrading and site servicing component (about 30 percent of
beneficiaries would be participants in CNEL housing savings
scheme).
(iii) The modalities of financing AFH would be the object of a financing
agreement between CNEL and AFH.
3. Eligibility
All beneficiaries conforming to the selection criteria agreed with
the Bank are eligible.
4. Cost Recovery
CNEL would be responsible for cost recovery of the loans and its
interests. It would reimburse the Government twice a year for all the
principal and intere_ts it recovers.
5. CNEL's Remuneration
1 percent on the amount of the loans.
3 percent on the amounts it recovers.



-54 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
6. Description of Loans
Short-term site servicing loans
Loans are to be made available from CNEL to AFH for the servicing of its
sites (sites already owned by AFH). CNEL would be reimbursed after
selling the land to the beneficiaries. At the start of the land servicing
works, the beneficiaries would put a downpayment of 10 percent of sale
price and the remaining 20 percent during the servicing (construction)
period. CNEL loans to AFH would be at an interest rate of 11.0 percent
for a maximum period of 3 years.
Consolidation of the short-term loan to a long term acquisition loan
After completion of the site servicing works the beneficiary would obtain
from CNEL out of Bank and Government funds a long-term loan at the
interest rates shown in 7 (b) below over 20 years with two years grace
period to finance the remaining 70 percent of the price of the serviced
plot.
Construction loans
Loans for about 35 percent of the infill plots (850 loans) in the
upgrading component and for about 25 percent of the plots (1,700 loans)
for the site servicing component would be managed by CNEL and provided to
beneficiaries for construction of dwellings. The loans would range from
1500 TD to 2500 TD depending on the financial capability of the borrower
and would be at the interest rates shown in 7 (c) below over 20 years with
two years grace period.
7. Sources of Funds and Terms of Loan
(a) Financing for servicing AFH land (11.0 percent for 3 years)
TD           USS
Million      Million
Bank loan                                   5.5           7.9
CNEL participation                          3.9           5.6
Total                   9.4          13.5
(b)  Consolidation of accounts (7 percent for 20 years for beneficiaries
whose incomes are equal or lower than one and a half times the SMIG, and 8.25
percent for those with incomes higher than one and a half times the SMIG.)
Bank loan                                   5.5           7.9
Government funds                            3.9           5.6
Total                   9.4          13.5
(c)  Construction loans (same interest and terms as for (b) above)
For Site Servicing        For Upgrading
TD        US$          TD           US$
Bank loan                         2.3        3.3          2.4         3.4
CNEL                              2.1        3.0          2.1         3.0
Total    4.4        6.3         4.5          6.4



~55 -                                                              ANNEX g
hopst. lairs       * te           tUrn  boos  user. UIt    lkW              (wit rV.129C.HM.  tin'                  1952   Ie    PIP. Prim          I.45    Cut   G3M3
-R   tIe           IOE   2!.   IlLS   249.9          IS               1.  35.  11139.12  21.19              VA A1   2991             9.1.6    .156  6611  21BM    2.47   129.3  2666.24
M     11*9      Ism      962.4  IN."      I.E    B.9"              1.32   M3I5   B1.19  27.17  41.5  53.32   2151                  64.3   11.12   46.439.16    N 2 91.    9.13  2313.21
anua  ink          0.1    NAe    3.5   us5    19sa                    i.u1    mA      uA       .n           VI.A   134914            ii.91  45A.0   n.5   %.n   21166  Su.uZ  62l.3
lEfM    et eAsk      m    119s    u.n   1w.u    I.M                 u1sa    3OR      36.77 111.26  11.!  512.5    EU8                541   15446  51.41 tU."   25.11   3.71  137.1i
*uMrndta  s%A   nMA   n.m  s.u   u.s                                11iu9  m1  146.  3.  9129W    M                                 ISM55*  256.3 luls 91A5 o.il3.1273.4 2579
oE it Coo         IA       W 1        A.5 37 m  372.9 17  f.62      53        31131   63.7  122.3   793  2130.31  32A.              294    1912.5  124.31 362.47  41663S ZIA   na4..u
-   3 hikS   463%J    Ilsm    a2."   171.  177.76                338    I.E   3111.117 31.6?   9124  75.191  26213             23.1   23.14   1L71 227.41  M1.2   15I3  9n v2
3111d2.         3.3   153.9   ltD    212.3   16.62                 6.3   3IA      273.   11112?  192    611?  11.A                9.1.4  IN76   U132  212.15  394.0  111213.   21611
o    ims           5:15   sti.3   INIA    iLK   113.76               613   MR2   301.66 124.5IN 13.3   7            MA              In36122.16 233.6    7   291.71  319.11 102.73  251154
iM1111ta.   4.3.  MA   IWZJ  MA3  3IA  INA    63   313  MA9.9 15.3  2121.M  1LE                                                     37.713 M137.IN5A  31.51 41798 M2A23321
S1      U11       137.3   13NA    253    SP."    5913  6N.A          33    23.3    3.9   5.33 SJ 4 632U.    13.3                    2131.3  23.11i  9.4   217.43  026.311  119.5  361.2
3151 athe    M   3.3        .23   31.52   23.3      5.52              3A13    7.97   N91A   191.  17.3  2319   45.6                 31.17  2436.7  259.43 451.94  616.41 1241.2  446? 39
ELF1 O3Sa       22513S  13.5    611.4    912    17.3                 22.219    9.3    224.   64.3   2391  s t1  32.26                1.54   973.9  512.   231M   249.62 13.3  lISt
no1D.16111         43.    42.5   61.91   9113    21.4    13.5    313    6.3    213.            l 3 1 1633     926.117NA "            42.91  4.917  25A    13.3  2MIS  3.23   16.09
Wr Is be.ea    ma2  in."    %.W   23.54    L8                        313    9.2    25.1    4.62  ALE   49119  2313                   73.9   3.11   63.362  93   117219  5.26  122.57
NM5  tO      s.. 8.13  2I31         .62   113.7    32M5    46.62    33    613   23.1?  46S9   143   1521    5.12                     5.6   746.24  SIA.    MIS   MAn    9u.s  236!
uM     .qdlt       56.   56.29   295.1IN i. i n             VAm    u gm      OR u     At   "In    LU   913.433I1A                   245.5  2365.3  19.3  29.33   539  119.3  29MA1
013Cr bo           71.23   W27A     16    153A    27.72   3.9        31      313   316.17  91113  79.19 II 1415                      "M931   731.79  9.27  259.16  21M3   3.11  2Il".
mm3  gm1          231M    1213 M11 i3 2          7* 12.97   7237   B."1    5."    72113 M5M   14311  lox    NS                      56.42  21119.! 166.76S523.91     16.19  32.6   433
Metal I    19125  53.3   M479   56 USA             N3   u1.19  166.7 1274.!   MM129273.3114A3.331.46  2715.72                  2I3CH 2563 1499.1942.3  33.373HIM          13MA 9VONA
111..111ma    .  MA    USM           354. 12 46    1 31.32    9.4   53      5.29   23.91  36.76  119.3  3199                       2121.2
he catS          392.91  4113.5  37911  16131.19  3.32   463.   Ill.77  311.15   3322INA 13132mom    3115.72                              35I.61
Atga   Wim         "A91     11329 .153N1.S7    1.55   43.29   26.9   17.9    61.3  ZI71   1251   215A                                              1MA.1
Mm Cabalg         491 .3D          33.   a33.62   25.26  'RJ         13.5    433  16111.309336 i  J5 A1*  7M714                                           4417.3
Mel V.1Mq.        332251.43   33.6    91.13   25.11  1233    NA3   17.72  237.71 711.74 NA5414 ."9  747.14                                                        5923.07
Ieol CSdfIl. TI 51.2   1313.3  3192.  146.M  1121.2   15.23                  IA IM 2613.31333.      M21.S1231116.92  969.3                                                MA13
I sate h.Itma
fteanmim           37.43    I 613    65.3     5.4666    31.73   31.73   IS1%    31.3                       MA.   13124              5200  15.92   3.29  101.3   231.9  674.59  53.711
rasp,             232.3    2613  23222  2115A       77.76   53.13   313    29.16   413                      45A    291.9           2"69s112371    6112  M15.      MA 2771 M25 13 95.1?
LI W  I            ni1    313   72.31   MA1    93.2    5.13    32.    26.3   27A1                           r13m    13BM            S1.27  113A   31.46 26.61  23.M   6a132  3.7
riskv             226       31 1 3.14i  14M 9.19191   64.9    394    iLA    4INA                           4513   263119           iss 1311 54.1      51.3 9  23.7    6676133.110  21215
1.1St.o           1795    5.42   217.4   174.5   93.31   715.3   16.66   39.19   931611                    63191   33.2            21766  11313   61.72  233.1   3773  24.127 31B432
hIdl               72.3   S143   46.66   1710   31210   2332    13.3    26.37   17213                      1813.    3.12            27 42   3.11  21.3   76.56   91.3  40136   2513
SQja              22.3      432    17.5  211116    64.69   3.15   2N.1    21.51   319.4                    363.73  119.43           r 7 77 1223  4219q tNi.4   11A1   13.67, 2M12
1111am  22         7291    6143   6123   7419    4362   161  11 2S W         36025A.                       223.2M3I M319114                    47.3   9?  944    1241   193.612   1912
bern               3725    S143    11     46,66   3 12    LU    215.    1.11   229.61                      13.1*       I   B2"5213             21a   211  SI4.5   614    3191AM   45.25
uMAN              2313N    638    39        131 1111 6.67    63    3251   2323   3232                       33.2   23.91           654IS  613 13   3.23  13L.72  2115  MOM5  2243.6
jutek            24SA113     8   1 16.64  1425    77.76    341    1656   2112   43213                      4421   2961t.19         I II  a21    5217S  26392  23191  211tH  164113
lapse             M7614      , 143 SI 21 46216   93113   7153    41.66   3419   9321116.19    "a 21.                               MA.2   225.11   7291  25.."  13.24 262695 lEA'?
irate              7652     1.4   691      ISSi14 6666   3-73   21373   211.6   21916                       2649   29315           SO1 5'13.9   3.219  236.77  236 ISUE7    UN.2
6eel              232.    77176  219414   24919   7945   6435   3979   MA.   4MA                           1.56   24319            122222  21675   61.17 21115  32 66 143.1 81313
latin.            273.    II132  223-12  147.79   32A       613    419    264    4643                      42.3  296.16' M6  1331.1   9.21  156.17  237.32 119.19 16961.
fbrS              213.3    23.5   232221   24113   7776,  6361  3NA         2916    W13                    914.3   24-.9           1s N    01 3 119.11595 265.53  M437  139.90 234219
hi.s               42.1     6.43   11IM    62.3   1956    313    17.3        691   172.19                   219.27   91.9           U.K   3W.2   29.9   61.5   3.3    43916  627
Star.              62.56    S.11   69.19   5.54    46.66   23.73   30.73   21.5    29.n                    2MA6   2435             4392  S123.19  294  231117   23333  LiD    91.62
tile               1951    613   21664  2219,610.22   56.6   39.5   2S1.1   432.                           4125   191.621           7970  32013 4.17 16,2.9  33?S111 3.63  1144111
ItemSXS 79 52                .43   71.17   NA.6    4126    I-  461 2     9.13    1   246.27          .     5.67   2435             4111  12317  3.819123.19  13261  652.66 -3M.
racw  hi.                                                                                                                  AOA             J91A           7213   72K11  4321    627.11
MISt     MA29 2.7    .171152.! 2233   125.23   157   512.13  3M    7?9.%    6U0    6A7251136119.43  360  134665932211.92  53.12 35S.26   MA39.1321952743 13
'sti. 11St IS    372.41     A1l  2M.94  333915. 71NY         3.3    3.19    19.3  1363.9                   134.52           .       s  91
lha Cod I        215.24  237.  223.  29.11 1439.67S159   63I.3   4.1.   1153.46                           33       11125  6451 6034     2B2MW
3g,to             INA1 29.2     3 1915.29   MA.3   122.53   6532   519.2    31.91   739A                   7319                                   3512
Amo ti,3          S7213   4?U9 49.17.KH   213.31  19I5   15.37    11.!  13.6                              1673.27  75.337210                            253.16
hee  Wl m.        MI.2     9.27  649.4796.12   4.1.4  216.44  235.   113259.69                            2667    7321   72A3                                    MA.1
rdm  Cat I       MA    5.617  mm13OWN7  3113.41  9169   779 oil               .I9 164911                 2        "am.   IRA3 4323                                       11.9
heal am, CM9    2439  ins3  93.97 973.1               i 25    A 2 17313.64   19.7626      15131.72 .13IA249992    765S 5M1               373625
Itwac Cmdaa       22313   3.37   431.19     2.1    33131513 IN       Sr    1?74   20.32  3171   1913  MA61                                       2349.51
fac V.95mg       25.6     679.1  13.9   1314.17  467.013  243.9  279.7  12.21   239214  W."  25.62431 7 2n11213  1234                                   797212l
heeld V.b.    23.46  154.5  24.5  2792111  6.136  369A    31.16  239.62  46.4  726.7  33.4   uS.,  14321   73 A3
Idd V.d9in3  6MR  NiA 63A  3112.! W.US 15.W? 112J3 U.N 314 3.14  I.62713  .3A  MA 4I1341361
Tdal  is 1I  346.A9M5 911.36 21161  421A01  1963M 1219.13 HM2175306.1MA1295.361I19   67.16                                                                                      SPUTA1



MUAM      10
-NN-
- s6 -                  ~~~~Pag  1 of 2
FOURIH URAN DEWVLOPMET PROJECT
Upgodng Com4pnet - Row kfnds
ARU
Al Amkouns an I D (mllon)
. J   Bud;AlFAcaclt-   - 4
SERMC            mMNSmE              CNEL
IlBRD   1Zg         ~~~~~STEG   0.2   Equtww  24        amR    24
ms  I&I                                      No.Eu. 0U
_ _ e ~~~~~~~~~~SONEDE o.e                 Howi     L        Gov.   21
CPS ;C                                        sr,   
IIIR    5.3                                                     BRRCAW
9A ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~       c
WNCIALE             9.1
tJ       9.1  I.0
CONTRACTORS  17'- A



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SWe SsMcing Component - Row d Funds
AFH/CNEL
All Amounts are In TD (mililon)
CONSWCTN LOANS
ko_cott 82        1           - ~-            -    b           01?D            2.3
CNEL            2.1
GOVERkN
IBRD                8.2                    lechncal Assistnce
CNEL                2.1                            O4
oAgmemunI  5.
CNEL                        Shat Term
URD                 5.5                    _.         b    LOnW Eqruit               3.5
CNEL                4.0                                    Studii, Adarsnotiiwo.     OA
Om (icliuding fnanciol
75                          ~~~~~~~~Chargesi)          1.3
Oft-91e Intraosucture     0.3
r-               . .              On-si9e Introstnicturo    9.2
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14B8
DownQayments                                                9.5
BEWNEHCWU1ES                                                 CONTRACTORS
9.5
MWM Bark-27058



-S8-                                                            Anus 11
TUNISIA YOURTH URl   PROJECT                                                       Page 1 of 2
SITUM AN  ZrUS 'ASE'f
~~~~T' 000)s
CTD'OWO
s.nae d rwAs                     CY    1W       IE        1SM      193        51      1552     193       195      155     Total
IEThr  NL (site    vciq)                 2        255      65       7       1,5        573      341       672      sn     s,585
Mfa (tick uutam)                         3    234  1n                                                                       432
IM  tro OI.t (1lm)                                         163      373       455        7      49        3N              Z,3
S tal                                   IID       29      9570    1,130    1,5410    1,026    1,26      2,110      sn    3,241
CIEL Pr.h m rig q (dte serc )           451      61        3        5         6        33        3?                       4,=
11Lauw isety                          3,54U                                                                               3,543
nf    ul  tC t c S a   11               117      22        2        2         25       122      115        63             !,343
Set                                4,103       037    1,142    1,23        135      56       2S         63             1,1
hicctiw us 8.punts                      452       177    1,121     953        677      451      226                       4,511
6Sut. Thr  OIEL                                           57       09     1,3    1,153    1,141    2,8O            52    5,523
DEL Lm   ri                                                243      2M       252       243      15                        1,453
siboul                               51       677    1,951    2,02      2,862    1,97    1,561    1,262          52   11,895
Lm REmnts
ror Flat Iasldtiu                                       61      197      41q       633      I27      55      1,11     4,221
ror Cmtrutctim                                                             17       65      153      271       33       I5
Sbtl                                913    1,354    3,953    4,244   %,55        4,355    4,103    3,798    1,595   291?
tewl Smuus                            5,121    2,728    6,095    6,U6       6,3    5,971    5,56       4,963    2,167   46,035
~~~~~~~~.  .. .__....... ........_ .    _ ............ ._ ...                      ...... . _............. __ ... .  . ..... ...................... 
bllatic  eo rof   d
Lad   sluitlm                         1,61       713       734       10                                                   3,541
b Site lfratructure                      23       42        5I       56        Is       32       16                         269
Off Site Inrastrctar                  1,846    1,426    2,052    2,22    1,72          761      190                       9,589
bin. a .H.                               55       58       129      193      213       176      132        73             1,030
Conruction L .                                                      231      742    1,070    1,259    1,059               4,83
tech. IPistarce                          U0      234      Il                                                               432
Sbtal                             2,133    2,543    3,113    3,175    z,711    2,039    1,557    1,167               15,191
lm   fur Plot bAstion                                    1,755    2,181    2,15    1,755    1,8    I,4D0                 10,53Z
DEL I be"t a  Loons                            0   a        13       23        23       23       27        25               14M
WOltR magonreppetus                                          2        7    IS    25    34                  4        52   175
O(L Rupeu to.6u.                                            U       166       337      649      919    1,197    1,43    %,73
S%begta                               0        8    1,31?    2,383   2,537    2,457    2,335    7,670    1,458   15,6S9
Total Wicatlm                         2,333    2,543    ',II      5,33    S,23    4,456    3,91         3,838    1,14    34,83
Cob flu  (sorplus or deict)           2,Z33      177    1,168    1,126    1,62    1,376    1,537    1,125          676   11,196
Ewativ (ue(wpils cr defwi             1,534    1,56    1,542    1,3        1,47        975      361        76       31



-59 -656-.f2
TUNISIA OURTH URDMIDEVIO1rwT PROJECT
UPGRADING CASH FLOW
CY   1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994    Total
Vs FM =um                                                                                  -----   --
19  thu hi.  IIKc.                      0    171    10  1,07  1,171    3S    633    3"            I9     5,3
Ri    thir IL                                        224    314    33      336    403    403    224    2,241
ID tln  1CL                             0    422    527    791    149  1,05   1,107    264    153          ,273
hu-ttul                           0    5    1,91  2,192  2,456  2,2"  2,144  1,05    531   12,1V
Uff thl hi. AlIc.                   1,03  1,19   1,736  1,634  1,411    m          640    422    132    9,141
W0IT thi  DEL                                        217    304    325    32       391    311    217    2,170
0   thru MCM                            0    305      M2    53    A        764    802    191    115    3,311
9.1-total                    1,023  1,500  2,335  2,510  2,424  1,97  1,132  1,003    514   15,129
-huf. do     yaumnts                                 112    157    Id      161    202    202    112    1,121
h=W. repaymnts                                        16     79   IU      247    333    441    53       1,153
DifKt Ualus                               100.00 200.00    300    300    400    3         300    300    2,200
Frutap To                                                   210    596 M.00    992  1,097  1,203   4*,37
9mb-total                              100    328    746  1,225  1,60  1,332  2,040  2,152   10,033
TOTAL SOUNCES                       1,023  2,1t;  4,254  5,44U  6,105  5,962  5,303  4,109  3,247   16,049
PLICATID   OF FUND
Lou                                   199    499    498    699    299                                    I,4
Studies                               479    191    191       6                                            957
Rehomuing                                    125    125    125       75     50                             493
Off-sit  ianfra.                             197    Hi    934  1,121    941    467    197          93    4,672
0nuitt &nfra                                 727    909  1,34  1,636  1,919  1,909    455    273    9,091
Util.Cou.hCom.Fac.                                   527    871    878    56i    439    527    26.    4,39
Adaihiutration I1 ON                  345    34    .33    172    191    211    134         96      19    1,915
Coastra:tion Loans                                   448    628    472    672    907    907    44U    4,493
Sal-total                    1,023  2,093  3,923  4,695  6,173  4,2501  3,97   2,071  1,097   29,000
Rqapjgts to So60nht:
by CPSCL                               8    101    154    2?0   4*:        22    1G2    966    3.391
by CIEL                                       7      37     76    116    159    207    250        952
hpaymt off-site                                   144.00 439.00 711.00 862.00 B62.00 718.00 582.00    4,324
So-total                         0       3    259    629  1,164  1,429  1,645  1,727  1,793    8,557
TUT.L APLICATIONS                   1,023  2,101  4,182  5,324  5,93?  5,60  5,619  3,?93  2,35   36,557
clSII FLIJ  lswplu  or esfitit)         0     92      72    125    Id      193    139    311    32    1,492
QNILlTE   Igswpln or deficit)           0     92    144   239    457    60    329  1,140  1,492



-60 -                               ANNEX 12
no 8 .6
Tunisia Fourth Urban Development Project
Disbursement Schedule
(US * Million)
Fiscal             Disburserent       Cumulative Dluburument  Undisbursed
Year               Amount       X         Amount       X      Amlount      X
FY87                   0.30     0.99        0.30    0.99       29.90   99.01
FY88                   1.73     5.73        2.03    6.72       28.17   93.28
FY89                   4.11    13.61        6.14   20.33       24.06   79.67
FY90                   4.83    1S.99       10.97   36.32       19.23   63.68
FY91                   5.43    17.98       16.40   54.30       13.80   45.70
FY92                   5.13    16.99       21.53   71.29        8.67   28.71
FY93                   3.92    12.98       25.45   84.27        4.75   15.73
FY94                   2.76     9.14       28.21   93.41        1.99    6.59
FY9S                   1.99     6.59       30.20  100.80        0.00    0.80



nNUN
FOURTH URBAN DMILOPMENT PROJECT
Income Dibutlon d Uxban Popukolon (1984)
90 _
eo _
-40 -
30 -                                               /
20-
10 _
0                                                                            [      , , , , , I    ,   .   .   .   .   . 
30  4o  so  60  70   0   90  100  110  120   130  140 1W  1W  170  180  190  2X  210  220  230  240  2W
tD/IfotlH               HMWIRD WOOf
a -27



t>Nt ~~~~~~~~~~1 qun 'iww. hplu, m
WOl*l1l tsl                                      -&dWal u       I    $I ii q     9 t     p   *@8*1  w  'i i lol   'e _     btl IN   a1
_                                                p.m  mA hal q  alp A   uig  is Oi  II kWh1i3 *                                                                                                   'fill 9199 Of SNA3 Ut1tsitp Mh1 W PM  91
-                                               W'     md so joltr AM "i#an v $pow $I bviuA.3                                                                                                  'MNI 1 S I pOuSN1I IA Wais I.ipA  we gi
F                     *0                              mAjU       a   5pP >   illass  =A     * ,t p.   P  5Wl) s  h:umlu,41 A                                                                            *w             *Ils   t    p          all IWP1311  t/
A l                                                                              'mAlJ  pie 111 P UI        i      Al OIl                                                                                                         'Wi       " I   l jn
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . ..  .  . _..__.. __  ......   . ...... ..  _*................................................... ... ... ... .. ..........
6)51 saIl IlIsul nl As1~l  ii                                                                                                         *i's'i.    mugt It Isrn  ns  IIgIpaI) a"iWaIl     ~ S
W                            tit I:        "1           C'E          st           1191             lo,lst,,rl
*  -             -              -                -             -     -                   *                            Zt             is:           ;                                                        61519W! IbS         tAW
*                  -                -               -                             -            -            -              96             II            tC';          1            %'tZI1                    ut                *       M           l"
LU                  *i:                              51s sbi                       sucnel a                  P                             Zsc            we                        5*1          hO           Ll*                     *lA'           no"P
mt                  ill               SRi                             "a            1611        "I           I              96             Is .                        El tl                   Ks           IS1 *Il1 IO                          8s585
C                   'I              SI               -S              UC           51           95           Y             h               C            U'Z           Ul            A'K                       oaK tIAW                            b.
- -                  -                                                SOI             ILt           1;'1         441            'I          oil          KiI sf, 91%
N                   06                I               IK                                        KI                          "I             It            19'1                       VI           GU           all                   *fil%             "PI
'0
N                      6l 11            LW             nl                NVs LI t"I I1 ,I n0                                                               1:            54           ,;           IO           1                           1      '    1sW
u        1            S               91             051              UK           955           aLl         0"1 WI                        K l            : UC       1c   b  cfi tt  Ie gl                                                        mtu
*    ~        -                 -              -                             -            -            - .                                          .fi                                                                         amg            M ;      ugte
III                 II                EM             PSI              NV            Il          KI           01            WI              II            0e;SCl1                                 ElI          Ii,                     :e'ffi       ces
*                   99                ISA            Ml               6W           SAl          II           SC            "I               1            Wit  U'l                   11            * ';                               1ilms1    SIW
- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NI                                                                               -     L             lI            WI           I1           A            911'                    lIE       C ';  P32t 1
gi_.u               IlhAll           *IoflUl         hite)            (Ill        Willi        UIPI            SI         W/ill          S.111           US).l '       i1 un   IIIII           Iikill        /1 5}1                  Ills   *Iin*
wqn                 am   ad          ml              003 brum   A          l   Ad  hltmlpn M   SlI   IlI      tll t S  w3d   uslu   ossni  painbs *nt vv$l            A"      1.SI  lini        lttl 'U    *ll 5
I,nw 1g    v                J gd w      tsipm* Al '- 'P ltttu   us    uoet    pow"q   sasaitpul lits                                                 to Al@t    "% .".".  .t oi                               hilitsl
.                        _   _    _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  _..   .....  ..... ........................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . .................. ... .. ... ... .. ... ... .. ... ... .. ... ..
It Ul            U   1                          1Ni *  WOW1       :1 li
AWI iiiuiu                  lu5s- 9515W



TUNISIA - MM 31 uaMM VgVU.01MM&0 IS7JUC
TAIe 7. Slyitoul Pfelt I C,trugtl. Losse  i Fli Prdt., Lam  lo4s a fi14dfwuiII
Meit I lstattifm Low   06timI Lb                                                    Plot I C.,trutii  mg t lsi2 Lb                                                      flat I futWim Ltgr lm3  L
kltlf  Mfudg.  ftIsr.                mmhbll  046.4.                                 latily  amIt.  COel.                 laW,MI  NE.                                    Nllisy  061.4   ladr.                11mll,  141.4
Plot Ft  tt   m  lati3y  lICa     by1110   LAW.         WWtIy  IKM.  bY bin    Flat  Flit t           bam la y  Jsame  11VOW    Lam    lalil y               IT. by l b Oa  ld    flit I..    A lawy I      by bOa   tam       lattl    Sua   by Nor
li     rig4   A I   ,   ll1IIt bild hL                             . Fa, d I lI   Popold.   prin;   loet   Payon.  hasri            thI~qa, Fn                                           m        .m~EaPW
tMWl6  167  27       62        6         96     2111     27.         71       94      140                7.         75       93              2.7          1       U       1110     aM         .2 3Pal1m                            .4rig 
rlli.  I            1216      II       6.         a 6      9     23119      11.2       73       91411 214        1061      6.3        i2       Il     306       321.4      I 94     0(96             232       10.1                                  1. 102 04 92  2
hillu               2260      "94      69         IS       93224            17.9       72                a       Jill602   1.7        2111     9     3012       124.3      92        a      O   2     266il     91.3      911      U       21       30.7       inl       2
hiam*I              1)6       114      6.2        62       96    21)4       17.7       78        96     2391     9to         .I       71       92      s977     1.7        91        U      14       14113    91.3        92I      P       31       39.9       III       U 7
Iglhull            220"       so       6.3        63       I 96   132       27.6       72       942142            9961      7.4       76       92     2996s    13.9        92             1112       1241.9.1             91       a       TM       3.6       214        U 
Ikudl               122       ml       6.0        is'      I7     226   121.9          is        4      &1123    I917       7.1       I2       It9          14 397  1.19            U        672     1233       4.9      i         in9mm 26      1   3.        222       0
?i.4a               214       04       i.1        II       I7     3         17.1       70       941    1244      tell      7.5        72       94     39193      W         1 2. 96   p   711       11   6      9.2        91       a      3PM       3.26       112       U
flimm               Il95      977      7.         71       9132477 13.9                76      19 3 5             "I27       .6.      Il9      U      33721    24.2        97        a      2992     IOU       22.2      lIS      6a 29 030.2                  223
Sw4a                I11U      III      .1.        16       97     121   127.3          69        If     5127      922      7.6        1        94      P 12 1 .3           191      U       1641     JllD       6.6       U        U       36021    27.9       II        a
flist 1             8T       1091      6.2                 96     2914      19.0       39       9S1 IlOl         121       Le.       39        34     2     210 .2        a0        02      l.       1"1        .S        114 1          4712       32.        225       a
Idols          104       0221     6.2        A 6    94       212"      27.6       III      96      139       97       7.4        74       922974 22.7                  1        p      III?2    It"       9.3        9        V P  30          3.2        222       a
latrmos             212"      9        7.2        73       44     145       26.1       '4       v;      Ji       221n       L.5       U        9      321023.7             97        06     INS      I   141    01.2     III       0       N        310.3      In9 
Ubat               1t7        la6      1.7       91?       97     zu         7.2        9         1    fill       94       .6.        it       Of4294           ILI.8      a9 Elli                    221      LI6        U        193s2            27.7       Its       a
1411*616            O   Ito     I1     1.7        17       97 2412          17.1       64       9142219           069      6.40           II          Me319      .0        U1       U       137      1222      0.5            U   96262             27.41      110       a
aia                 2293      960      6.9        69       94     24511    16.9        7t        II     1112      911      0.2        02       94      20642 .6            96       06      TO    M       11    49L      104               us       29.4       III       a
IMliti              la0       719      1.6        16       97     22191    17.1        60       I 9 12264         6        6.6        if       a1     365       1.0        a         a2832           lil       LI5        a6      9U     6 l6       21.1       Joe       la
bmNiq          I2I0       S4O      6.5       65         1     2147      11.9       !2       I0      Am3      lots      7.0        is       9      3026      23.0       92       06      1014     821       9.7        97       a       371      3.6        III       79
is   In  aid  '84  prices  for C " aility  with  ino                          data.                                             2      ontcio            io     o i        ,m
rb   optLon  Is   p Lot of  100  a  , constructia.  loan  of TD  1,100.   option  2a   plot of  120 a  *cnt" inla                                                  ElD200
Ic   Incluades cost of  land  acquisitbio,  infrastructure, studies, administration  and  ON. inmtecest during  construction and  AFl'a  profit  "rerin.
aAfter dnqunpaynat of 20! of plot price.
co   Ower  LS years at 6.25! wilth  a grace  period  of  2 years. Correspondinag  to  paymants  in  its  lot year after  tbe  grace period  converted  to
aid '04 prices.
If   when. monthly  paymnt  for plot acquisition  is  lOt of  income.
lj   According  to  inesomse diatribution  ilf urban  population  (Annex  13).
WbNtae monthly payment for plot acquisition and construction loan is 2AZ if Incomes.



- 64 -
ANNEX 15
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
UpgradinR Pipeline
1.       The estimated benefits from the proposed investments correspond to
(a) the increase of rental values for housing as a result of the upgrading,
dedensification, and provision of coAmmity facilitic- and (b) the additional
rents from the new housing to be developed on the serviced and infill plots.
The "with project" rental values are based on the existing market rents in
similar shelter developments and upgraded sites with comparable location
characteristics and levels of service averaging TD 23/room/month. In order to
bring the quality of houses to the level of "with project" housing, an
investment for house improvement was added to the project. The rents actually
paid in the project sites represent market prices and were used as "without
project" values and they average about TD 12/room/month. The average rent of
new houses on infill plots was estimated at TD 25/room/month.
2.       The net of taxes costs included in the analysis are for: (a) land and
site preparation; (b) the part of off-site infrastructure allocable to the
site; (c) on-site infrastructure and house connections; (d) the sites' share
of community facilities; (e) house improvement and construction of 2-room
units per plot on average (in the case of all infill plots); (f) physical
contingencies; (g) project administration, design and supervision; and
(h) annual operation and maintenance ranging between 0.5 percent and 5 percent
of investment costs depending on the category of works.
Site Servicing Pipeline
3.       Most of the benefits would be captured in the value of the AFH
serviced land. The estimated market values at the AFH sites after servicing
range between TD 15/M2 and TD 28/m2.  Estimates are based on the observed
market prices of unserviced land in areas adjacent to AFH completed sites,
adjusted for the cost of development. The minimum of this range is taken as a
safe estimate of the market price of the AEH proposed sites. Plot sales and
occupancy are considered as taking place within the year following the
completion of plot development.
4.       The net of taxes costs included in the analysis are for. (a) land
acquisition and preparation, (b) on- and off-site infrastructure, (c) physical
contingencies, and (d) project administration, design and supervision.
5.       All costs and benefits of both components are in mid 1984 prices.
The implementation schedules used are the ones provided by ARRU and AFH for a
typical site, adjusted to account for Bank processing and assuming that the
overall pipelines would be implemented in six packages.



- 65 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA - FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
1. Reports
- Aide-Memoire
- Project identification
- Preappraisal mission
- Appraisal mission
2. Preparatory Studies
- Evaluation and priorities for intervention (Northwest-Centerwest, South
and District of Tunis January 1984)
- Site Servicing Component
3. Tunisia Housing Sector Review (Grey Cover)
4. Tunisia: Institutional Housing Finance Sector Review (Green Cover)
5. Cost Estimates and Financial Matters
- Upgrading Pipeline (18 sites)
- Site Servicing Pipeline (20 sites)
- Cash flow assumptions
6. Documents related to AFH
- Financial Statements, 1982 and 1983
- Analysis of Financial Statements, 1982
- Financial Plan, 1982-1986 and 1987-1991
- Financial Plan (Hypothesis), 1983-1986
- AFH Activities 1983 and 1984 Programs
- Account Justification, 1982
- AFH Decree No. 74-33, January 1974
- Need for Housing, Communal Facilities and Land, March 1983
- Memo to Minister on Price of Serviced Land



- 66 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
7. Documents related to ARRU
- Financial Statements, 1983
- Budget, 1984 and 1985
- Audit Report, 1983
8. Documents related to CNEL
- Financial Statements, 1982 and 1983
- CNEL's Activities, 1981 and 1983
- Report on CNEL by SODI
- CNEL, 1982 (directions and development)
- CNEL, 1974-1981 (directions and development)
9. Documents Related to Cost Recovery
- Income Distribution of Beneficiaries for Each Site.



IBRD 18756
TUNISIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CITIES                                               Bizerle
-                      &  \   "j@v<.'t^t            /  w                                                  37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37~
ha ii            .         br;I  -febo.ur f                      Kelitb
TUNIS                  Klb
A   Upgrading Component                                                                B   ous
Site Servicing Componemii                                             Fouciairia j
*   Provincial Coplals            J endob                                                    i  N
*               (                  8~~~~~~~~~..    Nobeul
Rivers0
Soll LolLes )> ~~~~.,~  \   ;                                  no_    ZOuon  __
Sailt Lakes}.'k-N
Ports                                                                        ji~
Internationail Airports   }L              I9t                             Ed:is 1a
--Provmcool Bound'crse5  it,r
International Boundores?                                                          L ,ona  B a;g+  
-3w                               }              D<mani  |                                                                                    W /  30r
)             @,S  h)                                y A (MokinIiiIe.d
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mns t   rr 
w                                                           A osrn#                      '
<   /                       -a    A                                                                       :1
J   \.                                 , ,  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~Skh.r.,
(N                                                                      El~~~~e
34'       (                                                                                                                                   31'-
*                  A' r-zeur ^(T  Gabes
Natta       AA
?                                                                @;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~den.ne
F R r4C f                     L  Av. @ I,                                                    TSo1 unne              .j
b,PA14,,,  VN' 
ITUNISIA   M;AkT-,                                                                                                         )
/  l l 5 Y ;^  1 |   \          X   Bt Sr  wP 9    ;    - r    AL    V--- ; "u         /     LIB   
A ~       \ L r, E R I A 
FEBRUARY 1985






