LOA IV (a encif Y 
IRESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-41a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
May 5, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit      = Dinar
US$1.00              Dincr 12.50
Dinar 1.00         = US$0.08
Dinar 1,000,000    = US$80,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric:   British/US Equivalents
1 m                    = 3.28 ft
1 k2                   = 0.62 mi
1 ion                  = 0.386 sq mi
I m ton                = 0.98 lg ton
= 1.1 US sh ton



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMARY ... .                                                      i-ii
1. INTRODUCTION .1
2. BACKGROUND ..............  2
3. THEPROJET.                                                       6
A.   Description   .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
B.   Design Standards and Engineering  . . . . . . . . . . .  9
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing  . . . . . . . .   . . . .  9
D. Execution.                        ............  12
4.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
A.   General ................ . . . .... . 13
B. Bar-Ulcinj .14
C. Begrade-Novi Sad .15
D.   Nis-Pristina-Pec ................. .   16
E. Sarajevo-Zenica .17
F. Summary. .18
5. RECOMMENDATIONS .19
TABLES
*        1.   Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-1968
2.   Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-1968
3.  The Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1958-1968
4.   Financing of Highway Expenditures, 1958-1970
5.  Public Roads in the Six Republics 1968
6.   Modernization of Highway System, 1958-1968
7.  Production and Import of New Vehicles, 1960-1968
8.   Federal Design Standards
9.  Estimated Cost of Project Highway Sections
10. Average Daily Traffic, 1969-1991
11. Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings per Km
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alexander (engineer), Toriyama and
Wouters (economists) on the basis of an appraisal mission in September-
October 1969.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEX I    : Chapter 2 (Background of Appraisal Report No. PTR-16a)
ANNEX II   :  Construction and/or Improvement of Access and Connecting
Roads to Project Highways
CHART       : Typical Organization of a Road, Fund
MAP         : Yugoslavia - Highway System



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction of six
sections of four major highways for which a Bank loan of US$40 million
equivalen- is proposed,  Transport generallv is a dynamic sector of the
Yugoslav economy, with road transport taking an increasing share of total
traffic and steadily reducing the dominance of the railwaLys. Development
o: the highway network has not kept pace with the growing road traffic,
and on the main routes traffic congestion has become heavy. On many other
routes driving conditions are poor.  In general, most of the roads are be-
low standard for the traffic they carry and require heavy maintenance.
The need for better facilities is urgent. Tourism is closely associated
with road transpcrt and its development would suffer if the road network
iS not improved.
ii.       The proposed project sections are part of a larger program of
highway improvements submitted by the Federal Government for considera-
-ion by the Bank in Septerhber 1968. In June 1969, the Bank made Loan
No. 608-YIJ (Third Highway Project), of $30 maillion equivalent, to help fi-
nance three high priority sections included in the program. The sections
included in the project now proposed were selected because of their high
economic priority and advanced stage of preparation. The remaining sec-
tions of the program are expected to be presented for Bank financing in
fiscal 1971.
iii.      The project sections, totalling 218 km, are located in three
Republics: Bosnia-Hercegovina, Montenegro and Serbia, and in the two Au-
tonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina. Those in Bosnia-Hercegovina
and in Vojvodina would constitute the first stage of whalt will eventually
be four-lane divided highways. The section in Montenegro would be a na-
tural extension of the Adriatic Highway along the coast, while the sec-
tions in Serbia and Kosovo would complete the highway Nis-Pristina-Pec.
All sections replace low standard roads, some of which are heavily con-
gested during the tourist season.
iv.       A principal issue is the fundamental change in highway adminis-
tration which has occurred since October 1967. As part of a larger nation-
al effort to decentralize economic decision making, the responsibilities
of the Federal Government in the highway sector (and in the transport
sector generally) have decreased, while those of the Repuiblics and autono-
mous Provinces have increased. Because the decentralization is so recent,
highway administration is in a period of transition. There is a need to
strengthen the staff of the Federal Administration responsible for the
transport sector and of the highway organizations of the six Republics and
two Autonomous Provinces, particularly for the purpose of improving project



- ii -
preparation. There is also a need to improve coordination of highway in-
vestments, maintenance, research and the collection of traffic and other
data pertaining to road transport. The Bank can and is playing a useful
role in advising the various authorities.
V.        In recent months, some improvements have already been made to
iUmprove highway administration. The regionaL highway organizations have
i.ncreased their staffs and have made progress in project preparation;
they have also agreed to met periodically for the purpose of solving
problems of common interest and to irmprove coordination of their activ-
ities. The Federal Secretariat for Economy iLs also considering plans
to reorganize and increese its staff responsible for the transport sector.
17.       The Bae    k has made three previous loans for highway projects in
Yugoslavia, totalling $75 mlIlion equivalent.  These loans were made in                J
1963, 1967 and 1969.  Contracts for these projects were awarded to Yugo-
slav contractors after international competitive bidding in which foreign
-rms participated.  The first two projects were satisfactorily completed
on schedule, except for one small section of the second project which had
to be redesigned because of the construction of a hydro-electric plant in
the vicinity. Construction of the third highway project has just started.
AJ1 projects are within the original cost estimates.
vii.      The estimated total cost of the proposed project is $97.5 mil-
lion equivalent. This amount does not include expenditures for right-of-
way, project preparation, and construction or, improvement of access or
connecting roads; these expenditures amount to about US$29.0 million
equivalent and are entirely financed from local resources. Investment
in the proposed project works is conservatively expected to yield rates
of return on ind4vidual sections ranging froml 14% to 29% as a result of
savings in vehicle operating costs and maintenance expenditures. Contracts
.fould be awarded after international competitive bidding. Depending on
whether local or foreign contractors would carry out the project, and the
extent to which foreign equipment would be used, the foreign exchange com-
ponent could range from 15% to 40%. Although no foreign firms have won
bids for road works, they have shown a growing interest in Bank-financed
highway projects in Yugoslavia. For this reason, and since the proposed
project sections are sufficiently large to attract, foreign firms, it has
been assumed that about one-fifth of the contracts may be awarded to foreign
bidders, in which case the foreign exchange component of the project would
be about 20%.
viii.     It is proposed to finance a portion of the local costs and to
provide a Bank loan of $40 million equivalent, for a term of 25 years, in-
cluding a grace period of five years.  Such a loan would cover 41% of the
total cost of the proiect cost, or 32% of the total cost, including the
cost of improving or constructing access or connecting roads. The respec-
tive Republics and Autonomous Provinces would have adequate funds for fi-
nancing the balance. The Borrower would be the Federal Government, which
would make the proceeds of the Bank loan available to the three Republics
and two Autonomous Provinces involved in the project.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
has requestv!d a loan frcm the Bank to help finance the construction of
six two-lane sections of four important highways: Bar-Ulcinj, Belgrade-
Novi Sad, Nis-Pristina-Pec and Sarajevo-Zenica. The sections to be built
liave a total length of 218 km and their cost of construction and super-
vision, including contingencies, is estimated at US$97.5 million equiva-
1ent.  The proposed loan would amount to US$40 million eq[uivalent, which
i       would represent 41% of the project cost.
1.02      The loan would be made to the Federal GovernmenLt, which would
make the proceeds available to the three Republics (Bosna-Hercegovina,
Montenegro and Serbia) and the two Autonomous Provinces (Kosovo and Vojvo-
dina) in which the project sections are located and which would be respon-
sible for the execution of the project; each would appoint an appropriate
highway organization as executing agency.
1.03      The proposed project sections are part of a larger program of
major highway improvements submitted in September 1968 by the Federal
Government for consideration by the Bank. In June 1969, the Bank made
Loan No. 608-YU (Third Highway Project), of US$30 million, to help fi-
nance three high priority sections, totalling about 123 )km in length,
and located in Macedonia, Slovenia, and Croatia. Construction of this
project has just started. The sections included in this proposed- Fourth
Highway Project have also been selected because of their high economic
priority and advanced stage of preparation.  The remaining sections of
the program require further study and preparation; they are located in
_        those Republics which, as beneficiaries of the Third Highway Project Loan,
are now occupied with the construction and financing of the highway sec-
tions under that Loan. The Federal Government intends to submit these re-
maining sections of the program, (165 km, estimated cost about US$110
million) for Bank financing in Fiscal 1971.
1.04      In addition to the Third Highway Project mentioned above, the
Bank earlier financed two other highway projects in Yugoslavia. The first,
covered by Loan No. 344-YU (1963), of US$35 million, helped finance the
completion of the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway (422 km) and
parts of the Central Highway (174 km). This project was completed satis-
factorily within the original timetable and cost estimates.  The Adriatic
Highway has given considerable impetus to the rapid development of tourism
in recent years, while the Central Highway has become the main arterial
highway of the country with a traffic growth higher than originally antici-
pated.



-2-
105      The Second Highway Project, covered by Loan No. 485-YU (1967),
of US$10 million, consisted of the improvement of sections of a 367 km
trunk road from Zupanja to Opuzen which forms a major link between the
Adriatic and Central Highways. The project has been satisfactorily com-
pleted, except for a 3 km section, which had to be redesigned in view of
the recent construction of a hydroelectric plant in the vicinity. 'This
section is now scheduled for completion in November 1970. The project
has so far been executed within the original cost: estimates and the Bank
has approved an extension of the Closing Date from December 31, 1969 to
M1arch 31, 1971 to permit completion and final disbursements in respect of
the 3 km section mentioned above.
1.06      The Bank has made three other loans for transport in Yugoslavia,
totaling US$155 million, all for railways.  The f'irst two loans, made in
1963 and 1965, for US$35 million (No. 361-YU) and US$70 million (No. 395-
YU) respectively, cover prolects which have encountered delays in execu-
tion and increases in costs. The standard-gauge line built between
Sarajevo and Ploce under the first loan is now in. operation with electric
traction and is essentially complete. The modernization program of the
main rail lines under the second loan has been delayed by about three
years, mainly due to a shortage of local financing. The Government and
the Bank are discussing a program for 1970 to provide the railway trans-
portation enterprises with the funds required for their capital invest-
ments, including the modernization program and the adequate operation and
maintenance of their systems. The Bank is therefore considering a post-
ponement of the closing date.
2. BACKGROUND
2
2.01      Yugoslavia has an area of 255,804 km , about the same as the
Federal Republic of Germany or the United Kingdom (see map).  Its popula-
tion of about 20 million is growing at a rate of 1% p.a.
2.02      The economy is diversified and grew at an average rate of about
7% p.a. during the early sixties. The rate of growth during 1967 and
1968, however, was considerably lower as the economy was adjusting to im-
portant constitutional and economic reforms introduced since 1965. The
growth rate for 1969 is expected to be much higher than in the preceding
two years, mainly as a result of relatively good crops and a considerable
expansion of industrial production. The gross national product for 1969
is estimated at Din. 145 billion, or about US$11.6 billion equivalent.
GNP per capita was about US$570.
2.03      For additional general background information, including infor-
mation on the transport sector, transport coordination, the highway net-
work, road transport, highway administration and organization, reference
may be made to Chapter 2 of the appraisal report (No. PTR-16a) dated
May 19, 1969, for the Third Highway Project (Loan No. 608-YU), attached
as Annex I. This Annex, which is still valid, also sets out some of the



- 3 -
important problems in the transport sector, in particular staffing, orga-
nization and coordination in the highway sector, and the allocation of
resources for highway maintenance.  These problems are largely a conse-
quence of the decentralization of the highway administration since Octolber
1967, as a result of which the responsibilities of the Federal Government
in the transport sector were decreased and, for the most part, transferred
to the six Republics and rwo Autonomous Provinces.  The understandings
reac'hed between the Yugoslav authorities and the Bank on these matters
are sur. .aT1zed below.
2.04      The Federal Government stated its intentions:
(i)  to exchange views with the Bank regarding measures for
improving overall coordination and planning in the trans-
port sector (Annex I, para. 2.13);
(ii)  to take measures for improving coordination in the highway
sector (Annex I, paras. 2.18, 2.28 and 2.29); and
(iii)  to revise all pertinent laws and regulations, in particular
to ensure that maintenance is given first priority in the
use of earmarked funds for highway works (AnneX I, para.
2.26).
These intentions were reconfirmed during loan negotiations for the proposed
project.
2.05      The three Republics (Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia) involved
in the Third Highway Project gave assurances:
(i)  that maintenance will have first call on earmarked funds
for highway works (Annex I, para. 2.26);
(ii)  to cooperate with each other and other Republics and Au-
tonomous Provinces in improving the system of collecting
and processing data pertaining to highway transport (Annex
I, para. 2.28); and
(iii) to ensure adequate control over the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using public roads.
These assurances were also given by the three Republics and two Autonomous
Provinces involved in the proposed project.
2.06      Despite the short period of time that has elapsed since the
Third Hip,hway Loan was signed (June 1969), the Federal and Regional au-
thorities have made reasonable progress, as explained below, in implement-
ing the understandings mentioned in paras. 2.04 and 2.05. It should be
recognized, however, that the problems in the highway sec.tor are complex,



-4-
and that the highway administration is still in a period of transition as
a result of the decentralization. In recent months, some problems have
become more apparent and are gradually being recognized by the authorities.
They can be broadly divided into two categories: first, those arising from
insufficient coordination among the various Road Funds and Councils (equiv-
alent to highway departments) of the Republics and Autonomous Provinces
and, second, those arising from the need to :[mprove and strengthen these
highway organizations and especially their competence in the field of trans-
port economics.  These problems, the progress made to date and further mea-
sures needed to solve them are discussed below.
2.07       In general, the coordination problem has arisen since the indi-
vidual Road Funds or Councils were suddenly made responsible for the de-
velopment and maintenance of the roads in their territories, other than                   lb
municipal roads.  There is now need to ensure proper coordination of their
policies and activities in such areas as basiLc highway research, investment
criteria and timing, maintenance standards and techniques, and data col-
lection on highway use. This is especially iLmportant since the Federal
Government is expected to play a limited role in these matters.  At pre-
sent, for example, a significant duplication of r,esearch work is taking
place and a lack of uniformity exists in the allocation of resources for
maintenance and the preparation of investment: plans. Until recently, con-
tacts between Road Funds have been limited rmtinly to matters concerning
imAprovements of some inter-republic roads.
2.08      Within its limited authority, the Federal Government has in
recent months taken some measures to improve coordination. It has issued
the first uniform guidelines for estimating vehicLe operating costs and
has started the preparation of uniform maintenance standards as part of
a revision of the Basic Federal Law on Public: Roads (para. 2.04). The
Federal Government has also commissioned domestic research institutions
and consulting organizations to undertake studies of the nature and extent
of competitive conditions between rail and road transport, the norms of
investment criteria applicable in the transport sector and the development
requirements of the main transport routes, in particular of the country's
main highways. It is expected that these studies will indicate areas where
greater coordination is required, for example, of investments in the main
highways serving more  than one Republic.  The Federal authorities intend
to incorporate the recommendations of these studies, as may be appropriate,
in proposals for new legislation and in the new F:Lve-Year Plan (1971-1975),
the draft of which is being prepared and is scheduled to be submitted for
consideration by the Federal Assembly in the second half of this year.
Furthermore, several commissions and working groups have been established
to study other important matters of the transport sector, e.g. to review
and refine the guidelines for estimating motor vehlicle operating costs,
to prepare uniform bidding documents for internat'ional tendering, etc.
These studies and enquiry commissions are a valuable first step towards
greater coordination in the highway sector. During negotiations, these
studies were discussed and the Government has indicated that it will keep
the Bank informed about the Five-Year Plan and the results of the most im-
portant studies.



- 5 -
2.09      The Road Funds and Road Councils have recently agreed to meet
periodical3y, under the chairmanship of the Federal Secretariat for Economy,
for the purpose of solving problemrs of common interest and, in general,
for liiproving coordination of their activities. During recent meetings,
they have already agreed to study arrangements for:
(i) coordinating the collection and processing of itraffic
data on inter-republic roads and their main conmecting
roads;
kii  organizing a standard inventory of such roads;
(iii)  determining a-ppropriate maintenance standards for
such roads;
(iv)  urndertaking or organizing highway research in areas of
common interest to the various Road Funds, such as guide-
lines for estimating vehicle operating costs;
(v) the preparation of an investment program for the
country's main highway network;
(vi)  reviewing existing highway legislation and recommending
revisions or new legislation; and
(vii)  collecting information on highway research in other coun-
tries, and the translation and dissemination of the most
important studies.
These meetings are expected to do much to improve efficiency in research
and coordination in the highway sector.
2.10      The Federal authorities have indicated that the Federal Assem-
bly elected last May would focus its attention, during the next few months
and during the discussions of the Five-Year Plan, on the problems of co-
ordination in the highway sector and is likely to approve important meas-
ures to remedy existing weaknesses. They have indicated that they will
keep the Bank informed about the Government's intentions and legislative
plans.
2.11      A new problem which has been recognized in recent months, is
that the staff of the Federal Administration responsible for the trans-
port sector (including the highway sector) has been reduced to a minimum
and is inadequate to provide the supporting services needed for the task,
including administrative supervision of the preparation, evaluation andl
execution of major transport projects. During loan negotiations, the
Bank was informed that the Government is now considering plans to reor-
ganize the existing staff dealing with the transport sector and to engage
additional qualified staff for this task.



- 6 -
2.12      The second general problem mentioned in para. 2.06, namely the
need to improve the Highway Organizations of the !Republics and Provinces,
is to be explained by the fact that these organizations had been mainly
concerned with road maintenance until 1967 and diid not have the necessary
qualified staff to develop major road improvement programs. In general,
these highway organizations have made significant progress during the
past year in recruiting additional staff, including economists, and in
strengthening their internal organizations. They have also sought the
assistance of various Yugoslav research institutions, universities, pro-
fessional organizations and individual experts to assist in project prep-
aration. Furthermore, they are considering addit:Lonal plans to improve
staffing, operations and their internal organizat:Lons.
2.13      As explained in the preceeding paragraphis, satisfactory progress
has been made in recent months to improve project preparation, investment
planning for the main highways, and staffing and coordination of the
activities of the Federal and regional highway administrations.  The
Federal and regional authorities have also indicalted that they will con-
tinue their efforts to remedy existing weaknesses, particularly to ensure:
(i) closer coordination between engineers and economists in project prep-
aration; and (ii) the collection of adequate data on traffic, maintenance
and investment expenditures, and financing.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The proposed project is part of a larger program of highway con-
struction (para. 1.03) and consists of the cc'nstrtuction of six two-lane
sections of four highways (see map):
Bar-Ulcinj (25 km), in Montenegro.
Belgrade-Novi Sad (59 km), in Serbia, located mainly
in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and partly in
the city of Belgrade.
Pec-Pristina-Nis (69 km), three sections,. Pec-Zaimovo
(22 km), Komoran-Velika Slatina (10 km), and Podujevo-
Pepeljevac (37 km), in Serbia, located rainly in the
Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
Sarajevo-Zenica (65 km), in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
3.02      The proposed project and loan would not include or provide Bank
financing for improvements and/or construction of any access and connecting
roads required to accommodate the expected traffic: from the project high-
ways because the preparation of these improvements was largely incomplete.



Thl- ro&A- -hu-h require improvement, by the time the project highways are
2ompleted, arre liLted in Annex II.  This list was agreed during negotiations
elnd the Gover,ment gave assurances that the required work shall be carried
out according to the details and time schedules given in the Annex.  Assur-
an-es were also obtained that all access roads shall be improved and/or con-
structed, and maintained, as reasonably required to permit optimum utiliza-
tion of the project highways.
ar-Ul-ini
3.03      This project section would be an extension of the Adriatic High-
way from the port of Bar to the town of Ulcinj.  The existing road, 35 km
long, has a pal--ment 3-5 in wide and no shoulders.  The alignment is tortuous,
and the navement is inadequate for current traffic loads; and is continuously
in need of heavy nvaint:enance. It is proposed to construct a two-lane high-
way on a new alignment to the same standards as the Adriatic Highway. The
disteace -.etween Bar and Ulcinj via the new road would lbe about 7 km shorter
Lhan by the old road; the latter would be maintained for local traffic and
onimal-drawn vehicles. Average daily traffic in 1972 on the new highway
would be about 1,600 vehicles.
Belgrade-Novi Sad
3.04      This section would be part of the heavily trafficked international
road E-5. The existing road, about 65 km long, passes through many towns
and built-up areas; it has a pavement width of about 6 mD and shoulders of
1 m or less. The pavement in many places is too weak for existing traffic
loads and the alignment is poor, with grades in excess of 8%; consequeintly,
maintenance costs are high.  Traffic volumes are large and some sections are
heavily congested.  The proposed highway would be constructed on a new align-
ment as a two-lane expressway, later to be widened to four-lanes when traffic
warrants. The project also includes a two-lane major bridge over the Danube
River, about 1,500 m long, including approaches.  The average traffic in
1973 is estimated at about 7,700 vehicles per day. The new expressway would
shorten the driving distance to Novi Sad by about 3 km. The Autonomous
Province of Vojvodina may elect to operate the expressway as a toll facility,
after the expressway is widened to four lanes. The proposed project express-
way has been designed and would be constructed, however, as a non-toll
facility. The existing road would be maintained for local traffic.
3.05      The last 1.8 km of the expressway at its southern end is within
the city limits of Belgrade and has been designed to tie in with a planmed
city street to the downtown area. The City has recently approved plans,
which are satisfactory, to start construction of this street in 1971.
Annex 11 shows the principal details. Construction of this street is a msajor
undertaking (estimated at US$12 million equivalent), to be completed at: the
same time as the expressway. The Bank has obtained satisfactory assurances
in this respect.



-8-
Pec-Pristina-Nis
(a) Pec-Pristina
3.06      No direct route exists between Pec and Pristina, except by way
of dry weather earth trails. The proposed two-lane direct route would
reduce the distance to about 80 ki, carry about 1,300 through vehicles per
day in 1972, and comprise the following road sections:
(i)  Pec-Zaimovo (22 km),which is to be constructed.
(ii)  Zaimovo-Komoran (34 km),which is being constructed by
Yugoslav contractors under contracts awairded in 1969
after domestic biddings.  The works were 70% complete
in March 1970 and are scheduled to be finished by the                       J
end of 1970; the quality of construction and supervi-
sion is satisfactory.
(iii)  Komoran-Velika Slatina (9 km), which is to be con-
structed.
(iv)  Velika Slatina-Kosovo Polje (8 km), which was recently
constructed to modern standards and is adequate to
serve traffic for a number of years, except for a
dangerous at-grade railway crossing near' Kosovo Polje
that is to be replaced by a highway bridge.
(v)  Kosovo Polje-Pristina (5 km), which will, require
improvement in the next few years, as it was built
several years ago to minimum standards on a poor
foundation; a by-pass (2 km) in Pristinai will also
be required in a few years.
3.07      The project would include sections (i), (iii) and the highway
bridge in section (iv). Sections (ii) and (v) are excluded from the
project because section (ii) is already under construction and section (v)
needs further preparation. The works described in (ii) and (v) above
must be completed, at the same time as, or before, the project highway in
order to ensure the full use of the highway. Assurances in this respect
were obtained during negotiations; Annex II shows the principal details
of the works.
(b) Pristina-Nis
3.08      Three sections of this two-lane highway were recently recon-
structed or improved and are adequate for future traffic. These sections
are:  Pristina-Podujevo (25 km), Pepeljevac-Proku]pje (29 km) and Prokulpje-
Nis (22 km). This latter section was reconstructed to minimum standards,
and may require further improvement or relocation in a few years. Feasibil-
ity studies are to be carried out later this year to determine the scope and
timing of the required work.



3.09      The only gap in having a satisfactory all-weat:lher link between
Pristina-Nis is the gravel road section Podujevo-Pepeljevac. Because of
steep grades and numerous hairpin curves, the road becomes impassable for
trucks during heavy rains or snowfall. The project includes the replace-
ment of this section with a two-lane paved highway (37 kin) on a new
alignment.
Sarajevo-Zenica
3.10      The project section would be the first stage of a planned four-
lane expressway linking the Central and Adriatic Highways. The Sarajevo-
Zenica area is now served by two roads originally constructed to minimal
gravel road standards and subsequently paved in part with a thin bituminous
surface treatment. These roads pass through numerous snumll towns and vil-
lages and their characteristics are very poor, e.g. steep grades of up to
12%, many sharp curves, and a narrow pavement width of 5 m without shoulders.
It would not be feasible to improve the existing road to modern standards.
The proposed two-lane expressway section would be construmcted on a new
alignment which generally follows the Bosna River and recluces the distance
between Sarajevo and Zenica from about 83 km to 76 km; the existing road
would be maintained for local traffic. In 1974 the average daily traffic
on the expressway would be about 4,500 vehicles.
B. Design Standards and Engineering
3.11      Table 8 shows the design standards being applied to the project.
These standards, which were also applied to the Third Highway Project, are
satisfactory. All detailed designs and engineering cost estimates for the
project sections have been prepared and are satisfactory.  The Yugoslav
consulting engineers carrying out the work are competent. Bidding documents
are scheduled to be completed in June 1970; these documents are expected to
be substantially the same as those approved by the Bank for the Third
Project.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.12      The construction cost estimates are based on quantities obtained
from completed detailed engineering and on unit prices from contracts re-
cently awarded; the estimates were reviewed during negotiLations and adjust-
ed to reflect prices in March 1970. As with the earlier Bank highway
projects, supervision costs have been taken as a percentage (about 5%) of
the estimated construction cost for each section. The project cost estimates
include a 10% contingency allowance for quantities and for unforeseen re-
quirements during construction.  They also include an allowance of about 4%
for possible increases in prices between March 1970 and t:he scheduled com-
pletion dates of the project.



- 10 -
3.13      The total cost of improving the four project highways to modern
standards is estimated at US$97.5 million equivalent, as shown in Table 9
and summarized below. This amount does not include: (i) the cost of
right-of-way and project preparation, estimated at US$9 million, as shown in
Table 9; and (ii) the cost of improving and/or constructing access and con-
necting roads, including works under construction (para. 3.07), estimated
at US$20 million, as shown in Annex II.
Cost Estimates /
(millions)
Foreign
Exchange
Dinars                 US$ Equivalent       Component
Item              Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    (%)
i)   Construction
of 6 sections
of 4 highways
(218 km):
Bar-Ulcinj
(25 km)       92.0   23.0    115.0          7.4     1.8      9.2     20
Belgrade-
Novi Sad
(9 km)       274.8   68.7    343.5        22.0      5.5    27.5      20
Pec-Pristina-
Nis
(69 km)      111.1   27.8    138.9          8.9     2.2    11.1      20
Sarajevo-
Zenica
(65 km)      337.0   85.5    422.5        27.0      6.8    33.8      20
Subtotal        814.9  205.0  1,019.9        65.3    16.3    81.6       20
ii) Supervision
of (i)         51.4    0.5      51.9        3.8     0.4      4.2       1
iii) Contingen-
cies         116.9   29.2    146.1          9.4     2.3    11.7      20
Totals          983.2  234.7  1,217.9        78.5    19.0    97.5       20
/1   Including taxes and duties.
3.14      The estimated foreign exchange component of construction cost
would be about 15% if all works were carried out lby Yugoslav contractors,
and about 40% if carried out exclusively by foreign contractors using
their own equipment. Although no foreign firms have won any contracts for
road works, they have shown increasing interest in Bank financed highway



- 11 -
projects in Yugoslavia. Nine foreign firms were prequalified to bid for
works under the Third Highway Project, the largest number to date; but
none submitted offers.  Several firms informed the Government that they
were heavily committed elsewhere and, therefore, were unable to submit
bids, but that they would be interested in future works. For this reason,
and taking into account that the project contracts would be rather large
and of a size that should attract foreign bids, it has been assumed that
about one-fifth of the proposed project works might be awarded to foreign
contractors, in which case the foreign exchange component: of construction
would be about 20%. Although supervision of construction would be performed
by Yugoslav consultants it would have a foreign exchange component of about
1% representing imported materials and supplies (surveying equipment, etc.).
The weighted foreign exchange component of cost of the project would be
almost 20%.
3.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent would represent
41% of the estimated project cost, or 32% of the total cost, including the
cost of improving access roads and other costs that have been excluded from
the Bank project. The percentage of Bank participation in the proposed
project would be about the same as for the Third Highway Project. Part of
the local currency costs would be covered by such a loan, as was the case
for the previous three highway loans. The Federal Governament would relend
the proceeds of the loan to the Republics and Autonomous Provinces, on sub-
stantially the same terms as the Bank loan.  The execution of Subsidiary
Loan Agreements by each Subsidiary Borrower would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the loan. Disbursement of the loan would be against actual ex-
penditures under approved construction contracts and would be made on the
basis of relevant documentation, in accordance with the above percentage.
The Bank has the option to reduce the disbursement percentage should the
estimated construction costs increase, so as to spread diLsbursements as
evenly as practicable in relation to the progress of total expenditures on
the project. Any surplus remaining in the Loan Account upon completion of
the project would be cancelled.
3.16      Assuming that construction would start in the last quarter of
1970, the estimated disbursements would be as follows (in US$ millions
equivalent):
Calendar Year        Total          Bank            Ytgoslav Sources
1970            4.9             2.0                   2.9
1971           31.0            12.7                  18.3
1972           36.0            14.8                  21.2
1973           29.6            10.5                  15.1
97.5           40.0                  57.5
3.17      Each of the Republics and Autonomous Provinces has already enacted
an investment law authorizing construction of the project section in its
territory. The Federal Government and the three Republics and two Autono-
mous Provinces have indicated that adequate local funds would be available



- 12 -
to carry out the Project. During loan negotiations, the detailed financing
plans for the project highway sections were revieiwed and confirmed. The
passing of a Decision on Financing by each Subsidiary Borrower, whereby
the necesary funds for the construction of each project section are com-
mitted, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
3.18      Vojvodina may levy tolls on the expressway Belgrade-Novi Sad;
however, it does not intend to decide this issue until the need arises
to widen the expressway to four lanes (para. 3.04). Tolls are seen as
additional road user charges and revenues would ba pooled with the receipts
of other road user charges.  If tolls are applied, they would be set
at reasonable levels and in a flexible manner, to ensure an optimum use
of the project highway and alternative routes or means of transportation.
The Road Fund would be responsible for the collection of tolls and for
the maintenance of the toll highways and faciLlitiies.  The intention is
that debt service of any loan for the construction of the toll highways
would be independent of the specific revenue from tolls. Vojvodina and
the Bank have agreed on the above principles for toll roads. Such agree-
ment was reached with the Republics concerned witla the Third Highway Proj-
ect.
D. Execution
3.19      The Republics and Autonomous Provinces in which the project
sections are located have named the following entities as executing
agencies:
Repub li c
and
Project Highway       Province                 Executing Agency
Bar-Ulcinj          Montenegro        Road Maiintenance Enterprise of
Montenegro
Belgrade-Novi Sad   Serbia            Road Cotncil of the Province of
Vojvodina           Vojvodina
Pec-Pristina-Nis    Serbia            Road Maintenance Enterprise of the
Kosovo              ProviLnce of Kosovo
Sarajevo-Zenica     Bosnia-           Road Fund of Bosnia-Hercegovina
Hercegovina
3.20      Construction will be by contractors; unit price contracts will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bidding purposes, some of the
six project highway sections eligible for Bank financing (para. 3.01) would
be divided into two to four subsections each:; the bridge over the Danube
River (para. 3.04) would be bid separately and the highway bridge near
Kosovo Polje (para. 3.07) would be included in the bidding for the works
comprising the project section Velika Slatina-Komoran. The "packaging" of
the works for bidding is designed to permit prequalified contractors to



- 13 -
bid for one or for several highway subsections, separate:Ly or combined, and
for the Danube River Bridge; the award would be made to the lowest combina-
tion of acceptable bids for each project section. Prequalification pro-
cedures are scheduled to begin in May 1970; the procedures would be similar
to those used for the Third Project.
3.21      Construction would be supervised by the executiLng agencies in-
dicated in para. 3.19, assisted by Yugoslav consultants and the experienced
soil and material testing institutes which prepared the (ietailed project
designs. All construction contracts would be awarded in 1970 and all
works should be completed by the end of 1973. Arrangements proposed by
the executing agencies for supervising construction of the project sections
are acceptable. The Federal Government has given assurances that it will
coordinate the overall execution of the project.
3.22      Land acquisition for the project is well in hand.  Assurances
were obtained that all land required for carrying out the project will be
acquired promptly as needed.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      During the past decade, the modernization of the highway net-
work has not kept pace with the expansion of motor traffiic, in particular
with heavier commercial traffic (Annex I, para. 2.19). To remedy the
difficulties this created for road transport, the authoriLties have agreed
to give highway investments higher priority. The improvement of the six
sections included in the proposed project is part, about 30%, of a larger
highway investment program (para. 1.03), prepared in 1968 as a first step
in this direction.
4.02      The six sections included in the proposed project are parts of
important trunk highways: Bar-Ulcinj, Belgrade-Novi Sad, Nis-Pristina-.Pec
and Sarajevo-Zenica. The sections Belgrade-Novi Sad and Sarajevo-Zenic:a
would constitute the first stages (two lanes) of four-lane divided high-
ways; they would relieve existing highways which are congested and have
technical deficiencies. The section Bar-Ulcinj would be a natural exten-
sion of the Adriatic highway along the coast, replacing a low standard
road which is heavily congested during the tourist season. The three
sections on the highway Nis-Pristina-Pec would complete the improvement
of this highway, which has been underway for several years.
4.03      Table 10 shows expected traffic on each of the main sections.
These forecasts are based on past traffic trends, recent origin-and-
destination studies, projections of total production of goods and services
and per capita income in the zones of influence, and estimated development
of tourism. The forecasts take into account the limited capacity of exist-
ing highways and, wherever appropriate, the additional traffic generated



- 14 -
by other connecting highways which are being improved. In general, the
projections are conservative and assume that traffic growth on the project
roads will gradually decline, from about 15% p.a. at present, to about
6-8% p.a. in the period 1980-90.
4.04      In calculating the economic return on investment, only savings
in vehicle operating costs (Table 11) and in maintenance costs are counted
as benefits. The expected unit savings in vehicle operating costs range
between 10% to 25% for passenger cars and between 12% to 32% for trucks
and trailers, according to the project roads. These are consistent with
Bank experience in similar circumstances.
4.05      The above savings understate the full benefits of the project
by excluding reductions in accidents and in travel time for passengers as
a result of reduced congestion on either the project roads or the existing
roads from which traffic will divert to the improved facilities. Moreover,
the savings reflect only the difference between present and expected
operating cost levels, and not those which would prevail in the absence
of improvements. On this conservative basis, the proposed investments in
individual road sections yield rates of return ranging from 14% to 29%.
To test the importance of passenger time savings, separate calculations
show that, taking conservative values for such time savings, the rates
of return would be about 2% higher. The above returns also do not take
into account other benefits such as greater comfort in traveling nor
possible reductions in cargo losses and inventory requirements. Savings
in vehicle operating costs accruing to foreign tourists have been included
as benefits on the grounds that they can be regarded as a stimulus of at
least equal value for tourism.
4.06      Four highway sections included in the proposed project parallel
railway lines. Their improvement, however, is not expected to attract any
significant volume of freight from these raiLways because high value
freight is already being carried by truck and railway freight consists
mainly of bulk cargo such as coal, constructLon materials and some agri-
cultural commodities moving over distances for which rail transport is
better suited. The proposed highway sections are also not likely to sig-
nificantly affect railway passenger traffic since the project roads are
short and, therefore, would mainly affect local passenger traffic which
is relatively unimportant and financially unattractive for the railways.
About 90% of all passenger traffic using pubLic transport is already being
handled by buses.
B. Bar-Ulcinj
4.07      The new highway would extend the Adriatic Highway, along the
coast, from the fast-growing port of Bar to IJlcinj, a small town near
Albania. It would replace a narrow low standard road (para. 3.03).



- 15 -
4.08      In recent years, traffic on the existing road has grown at over
16% p.a. and has reached an average of about 1,200 vehicles per day. In
summer, average daily traffic reaches 1,600 vehicles wiith much heavier
volumes on weekends and holidays and which cause considerable congestion.
4.09      A UNDP technical assistance team has been studying the economiic
potential of the Bar-Ulcinj area for about two years and has recommended
the development of Ulcinj as an important center for tourism. The UNDP
study estimates that the number of tourists beds in Ulc:Lnj could increase
from about 13,000 in 1969 to about 25,000 by 1975, and would continue to
increase thereafter. The area has a Mediterranean climate, several at-
tractive beaches, hunting grounds, and mountains and lakes. The beach
south of Ulcinj is one of the longest in the country. ]Development of
tourism would also stimulate agricultural production, mainly fruits and
0        vegetables.  The UNDP team estimates that, with irrigatiLon, two crops
could be harvested and that production could be increased to supply the
local market and also some of the tourism centers along the Adriatic High-
way. These estimates are reasonable in view of the recent growth of
tourism in the area.
4.10      A new road is essential to facilitate this development, especially
to accommodate the expected increase of traffic after 1973, when the
Central Adriatic Highway and the Bar-Belgrade railway w:Lll have been
completed. This railway, which the Bank is financing wider Loan 531-YLU,
is expected to reduce the journey time between Belgrade and Bar from about
two days by road at present to about eight hours and, as a result, stimulate
traffic in the Bar-Ulcinj area. Traffic on the project road is expected
to grow at a rate of about 12% p.a. during the immediate years following
its completion, and about 6% p.a. in later years.
4.11      In comparison with conditions on the existing road, savings in
vehicle operating costs on the proposed highway would yiLeld a rate of re-
turn of about 14%.  This rate is conservative as explained in para. 4.05.
Construction of the new highway is, therefore, economically justified.
C. Belgrade-Novi Sad
4.12      This proposed project section constitutes the first two-lane
element of an ultimate four-lane divided highway between Belgrade and
Subotica, a town of about 140,000 people near the border with Hungary.
This highway would be part of European Highway E5 which links several
major European towns (see Map). In Belgrade, the highway would connect
to the Central Highway.
4.13      The project section would connect Belgrade to Novi Sad, a city
also of abour 140,000 people that is situated halfway to Subotica. Novi
Sad is the capital and administrative center of the Autonomous Province
of Vojvodina. The project would relieve an existing paved road, built
before World War II, which is congested (see para. 3.04). Traffic on ithe



- 16 -
existing road has grown at a rate exceeding 15% per year and, on average
exceeded 5,000 vehicles per day in 1969, about 70% of which is generated
by the two cities. Traffic is expected to increase at about 12% per annum
during the next few years, and at about 8% pe!r annum thereafter.
4.14      Present plans call for building only two lanes naw under the
Project, two lanes after some years and, thereafter, extending the high-
way to Subotica.
4.15      In the economic evaluation, the proposed bridge over the Danube
(para. 3.04) has been considered as an integral part of the expressway.
On the conservative basis set out in para. 4.05, ithe benefits resulting
from this project section yield a satisfactory ral:e of return of about
14%.
D. Nis-Pristina-Pec
a.   General
4.16      This highway is a major segment of Highway 17, which is gradually
being improved and which, when completed, will provide the shortest route
between Eastern Serbia and the Central Adriatic HiLghway leading to the
coast. The three sections included in the project would complete the high-
way between Nis-Pristina-Pec.
b.   Nis-Pristina (Pepeljevac-Podujevo)
4.17      The proposed improvement would complete the highway between Nis,
an important commercial and industrial center in Serbia, and Pristina,
the capital and administrative center of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
It would replace the very low standard gravel road section between Pepeljevac
and Podujevo, about midway between Nis and Pristina, and thus provide a modern-
ized link between the two cities (see para. 3.09).
4.18      Despite poor driving conditions, traffic on the existing road
has increased during the past five years at an average annual rate exceeding
20%. In 1969, the average daily traffic is estimated at about 900 vehicles,
which is very heavy traffic for a gravel road, recquiring considerable main-
tenance to keep the road passable. Traffic is expected to increase at a
rate of about 13% p.a. in the immediate years following completion of the
proposed improvement, declining to a rate of abouc: 6% during the period
1980-90. The improvement would substantially reduce vehicle operating
costs and also maintenance expenditure. The resulting savings yield an
acceptable rate of return of about 18%.
c.   Pristina-Pec (Komoran-Velika Slatina and Pec-.Zaimovo)
4.19      No direct road exists between Pristina and Pec, a town of about
70,000 people, which is rapidly developing as a significant center for



- 17 -
tourism. At present, almost all traffic between the two cities takes a
158 km circuitous route, via Prizren.  A shorter road (115 km ) via Kosovsko
Mitrovica is being avoided by motor traffic because part of it has a gravel
surface in poor condition. Some segments of the direct road already exist
and one other section is under construction (para. 3.07).  The project see-
tions would complete the direct link and thereby shorten the distance be-
tween the two cities to 80 km.
4.20      Recent origin-and-destination studies indicate that more than
650 vehicles per day, representing through traffic only, would have used
the new highway in 1968 if it had been built. In addition, some local
traffic, mainly near Pec, which currently uses earth roads, would have
benefited from the new highway. Furthermore, traffic is expected to
increase rapidly during the next few years, at an annual rate of about
*      12%, because motorization in the zone of influence 4S at an early stage
and is expected to develop rapidly as incomes grow. During the past five
years the traffic and the vehicle fleet has increased at an average rate
of about 20% per year. Although Kosovo is one of the least-developed
regions of the country, it has rich mineral resources (mainly coal, zinc
and lead) which are being developed rapidly and also considerable potential
for raising agricultural production. Another reason to expect rapid traf-
fic growth is the expected increase in tourism and other traffic following
the completion in 1973 of the project highway, Nis-Pristina, and the Cer.-
tral Adriatic Highway now under construction.
4.21      Savings in vehicle operating costs, mainly on account of the
distance shortening for through traffic, are estimated to yield a rate of
return of about 29%, which would amply justify the proposed investment.
This rate taies into account the cost of the project bridge to be built
at Kosovo Polje (para. 3.07) to avoid waiting for the passing of about
80 trains per day.
E.  Sarajevo-Zenica
4.22      The proposed two-lane highway would be the first: stage of a
planned four-lane highway linking Sarajevo, the capital and administrative
center of Bosnia-Hercegovina, and Zenica, the most important industrial
center of the region (para. 3.10). The project section would serve a much
larger zone of influence, however, since the two cities are crossroads of
important highways connecting the Central and Adriatic Highways.
4.23      The proposed section would relieve two narrow, low standard
existing highways between Sarajevo and Zenica. One, to the west of the
project section, carrying most of the traffic, about 2,000 vehicles per
day; the other, to the east, stops at Kakanj, an important mining town,
south of Zenica. There is no direct connection between Kdkanj and Zenica.
Construction of the project section would reduce the distance between
Kakanj and Zenica from 76 km to 24 km and from Sarajevo to Zenica from
83 km to 67 km.



- 18 -
4.24      In the past five years the annual traffic growth rate on the
existing highways exceeded 15%. It is estimated that if the new highway
had been opened in 1969, the volume of through traffic would have amounted
to about 1,900 vehicles per day. Furthermore, part of the traffic gen-
erated by the numerous settlements between Zenica and Sarajevo would have
used the highway. Partly as a result of the expected increase in tourism,
and the expected improvement of connecting highways, traffic is expected
to increase about 14% per year during the first few years, and at a rate
of about 8% in later years.
4.25      Savings in vehicle operating costs are conservatively (para. 4.05)
estimated to yield a rate of return of about 14%.
F.  Summary                                         J
4.26      The above rates of return, ranging from 14% to 29% for individual
road sections are based on best estimates of construction costs, traffic
growth and vehicle operating costs. On the basis of a combination of more
conservative estimates of these three items (a 5% increase of construction
costs combined with a reduction of about 10% in traffic growth and in
vehicle operating costs), the rates vary between 10% and 20%. According
to more optimistic estimates (a 5% reduction in construction costs combined
with a 10% increase in traffic growth and vehicle operating costs), the
rates vary between 17% and 38%.
4.27      These results indicate that even on very conservative assump-
tions, all project sections would yield a satisfactory rate of return.
Therefore, and taking into account that the above! rates do not reflect
the full benefits to be derived from the proposed investment, as explained
in para. 4.05, the proposed project is well justified.
5. RECOMNENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(i)  that the Federal Government would continue to exchange
views with the Bank on developmenl:s in the transport
sector (paras. 2.04 and 2.08) and review all laws and
regulations related to highwaLys (paras. 2.04 and
2.09 (vi));
(ii)  that the Republics and Autonomous Provinces would ensure
adequate maintenance of the roads for which they are
responsible, and continue to improve the collection of
traffic data and the control over dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles (paras. 2.C05 and 2.09 (i)); and,



- 19 -
(iii)  that the Federal Government would ensure the nature,
timing and financing of improvements or- new construction
of access and connecting roads (para. 3.02).
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the Loan would be (i) the execu-
tion of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (para. 3.15); and (ii) the passing of
a Decision of Financing by each subsidiary borrower, whereby the necessary
funds for each project section are committed (para. 3.17).
5.03      With the assurances indicated above, the proposed project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$40 million, with a term
of 25 years, including a five-year grace period.



IJI



Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA - FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
FREIGHT TRAFFIC BY PDE OF TRANSPORT, 1953 - 1968
Traffic (millions of ton-kn)
Year    Total      Ra2-'Iway           Maritime                 Highwa
Inland               Tlng            Own
Waterway   Coastal   Enterprises   Account
1958    16,284      13,031          1,491      257          560           945
1959    17,947      13,974          1,636      499          816         1,022
1960     20,534      15,191         2,009      390        1,016         1,928
1961     20,986    114,941          2,085      370        1,382         2,208
1962    21,573      15,033          2,212      358        1,615         2,355
1963     25,1469     17,345          2,569     376        2,024         3,155
1964     28,559      18,258         3,108      370        2,399         4,42i,
1965    30,167      18,036          3,313      407        3,029         50&"
1966     32,020      17,518         3,853      342        3,612         6,695
1967     31,951     16,390          3,942      246        4,000         7,373
1968     34,802      16,372          4,334      308       4,832         8,956
1969 3/   n.a.       17,000         4,400      400        5,500          nea,
a          Distance (km )
1965                   241            359      283           84            1:
1966                   244            364      199           91            18
1967                   238            358      147           98            20
1968                   239            347      362          110            22
1969 -                  248           237      142          110          n.a.
I/ Estimates
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics:  Statistical Bulletins.
February 9, 1970



TABLE 2
YUGOSLAVIA - FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
PASSENGER TRAFFIC BY MODE OF TRANSPORT, 1958 - 1968
Traffic (millions of Passenger km)
Year    Total     Rail,        Highway        Airway      Maritime    Inland
Dor6stic      Coastal  WLterw,za.r
Passenger
Bus_/    Car
1958   11,511      8,877   1,760     425         60          359        30
1959   12,521      9,250   2,231     580         82          352        26
1960   15,663     10,449   2,826   1,877        114          370        27
1961   16,368     10,089   3,139   2,620        136          361        23
1962   17,249      9,908   3,315   3,492        165          348        21
1963   19,372     10,673   3,876   4,236        267          304        16
1964   22,894     12,308   4,843   5,118        366          241        18
1965   26,170     12,800   6,025   6,634        480          215        16
1966   29,807     12,196   7,986   8,879        537          194        15
1967   28,856     10,753   9,599   7,844V 3/    532          119         8
1968   32,008     10,284  10,686  10,245        619          165         9
1969 4/  n.a.     10,000  12,000    n.a.        750          160         9
AverageDistance (km)
1965                  54      28    n.a.        757           44        43
1966                  57      27    n.a.        907           50        46
1967                  55      26    n.a.        833           36        37
1968                  56      25    n.a.        835           47       168
1969                  57      26    n.a.        804           38       221
I/  Interurban public services only.
2Y Estimatesfor the years 1958-1966 based on the assumption that each
passenger car travelled about 16,100 km anniually with an average
occupancy rate of 2.5 persons per car.
3/ Estimate for the years 1967 and 1968 based on the assumption that
each passenger car travelled about 10,300 km annually with an aver-
age occupancy rate of 2.5 persons per car.
4/ Estimates
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics: Statistical Bulletins.
February 9, 1970



TABLE 3
YUGOSLAVIA - FOURTH ROAD PROJECI'
THE MOTOR VEHICLE FLEET, 1958  - 1968
(Thousands)
Motor-      Passenger                            I'railers
Year         cycles        Cars         BUses     Trucks     and others          Total
'958         37,6          28,3         3,9       43,6          12,8            126,2
1959         54,5          39,0         4,6       49,8          16,3            164,2
* 960        69,7         54,2          5,1       54,6          19,4            203,1
1961         72,1          75,5         5,2       50,5          16,6            2193,9
1962         91,0          97,9         6,1       58,0          19,2            272,2
1963         98,0        112,5          6,6       64,5          20,3            301,9
1964        102,2        141,8          7,4       72,6          21,8            345,8
1965        106,4        187,8          8,2       84,4          24,7            411,5
1966        112,3        253,3          9,8       98,8          27,6            501,8
1967        111,9         355,9        11,2      117,2          31,7            627,9
1,65        107,0        439,9         12,3      122,9          33,1            715,2
.3xtirce: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins 1958 - 1968
February 9, 1970



TABLE 4
YUGOSLAVIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing of Highway Expenditures  5958-1970
(millions of Dinars)
Total Investment            Federal           Regional and
Year          and Maintenance              Government-/      Local AuthoritiesE/
1958                341                       161                  180
1959                402                       199                  203
1960                494                       271                  223
i961                647                       370                  277
1962                650                       326                  324
1963                798                       316                  482
1964             1,025                        411                  614
1965                995                       193                  802
1966             1,048                        1140                 908
1967             1,431                        207                1,224
19683/           1,965                        286                1,679
1969-0/           2,441                       281                2,160
197014/           2,371                       253                2,118
l/  Investment only
2/ Funding of highway investments and maintenance by republics, districts,
communities, donations from industrial and commercial enterprises and
public loans;  the latter two sources account for less than 10% of the
total.
3/ Preliminary
Ti/ Planned
Source: "?Federal Secretariat for Economy"
February 9, 1970



YUGOSAVIA - EFOTH HIGHRIAY PROJi3CT
PULIC ROADS IN THE SIX REPUBLICS 1968 1/
(km)
Road                  Bosnia and
DMe of Surlace     Class 2/      Total     Hercegovina     Croatia   GCna Gora    iiaccdonia        Serbia     Slovenia
I - IV      88,h25        9,340         22,894       2,778         6,791        33,676      12,946
I          9,915        1,675          2,532         613           906         3,351         838
II        13,460        2,376          3,L 36        507           889         4,555       1,697
All Types          III       19,500        1,789          6,103         302            696        6,724        3,886
IV        45,550        3,500         10,823'      1,356         4,300        19,046       6,525
I - IV      18,703        1,281          5,272;        697          1,452        6,930       3,071
I          7,736          858          2,207         471            665        2,720          815
Paved              II         5,492          293          1,553         177            339        2,018       1,112
III        3,669          107          1,200          37             60        1,493         772
IV         1,806           23            312          12            383          699          372
I - IV      46,344        4,654         15,985       2,141         1,692        11,997       9,875
I          2,004          817              2         142            210          520
Gravel             II         7,369        2,083          1,883          390           494        1,934          5P
III       14209        1,622          4,)852        265            339        4,017        3,114
IV        22,762          132          8,958      1344             649        5,526       6,153
I - IV      23,438        3,s405         1,637          -           3,647       14,7f49
I            175          -               33          -              31           li
Compact            II           659          -                                          56          603
Earth             III        1,622           ;60            51          -             297        1,214
IV        20,982        3,345          1,553          -           3,263       12,821
1/ Preliminary da ta
2/ Including the two Autonomous Provinces of Voljvodina and Kosovo
Soarce: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletin.
February 9, 1970



TABLE 6
YUGOSLAVIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MODERNIZATION OF BIGHWAY SYSTEMS, 19,58-19681/
(km)
Annual Increase of                 Total Length of
Year          Paved Road Network                  Paved Road Metwork
1958                833                                 5,014
1959              1,047                                 6,061
1960                699                                 6,760
1961                985                                 7,745
1962              1,255                                 9,000
1963              1,053                                10,053
1964              15,54                                11,597
1965              1,353                                12,950
1966              1,424                                14,374                         J
1967              1,614                                15,988
1968              2,715                                18,703
1/   All kinds of paved roads better than gravel roads.   Many of these
roads are former gravel roads that have merely been paved with a
thin bituminous surface and, in general, will require inprovement in
the next few years.
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins, 1958-68
February 9, 1970



TABLE 7
YUGCSIAVIA
FOURTH HIGWIAY PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND IYPORT C' NEW VEEHICLE, 1960-1968
(units)
Year             Cars            Motorcycles         Tracks          Buses
A. PRODUCTICN
1960            10,461             41,414             4,564             896
1961            14,999             37,751             5,426             829
1962            13,125             31,968             6,454           2,144
1963            20,293             43,113             7,975          1,823
1964            27,854             48,142             9,081           2,362
1965            35,880             48,774             9,572           2,287
1966            37,687             48,773             8,870           2,899
1967            47,888             49,559             9,654           2,421
1968            59,381             58,481            10,465           2,857
B. IMPORTS
1960             1,150              7,913               277              75
1961             1.,247            11,292               649              39
1962               454              2,017               103             125
1963               953                142               527               1
1.964            4,785                972             1,563              10
1965            13,049                929             1,544              50
1966            20,199              3,136             1,015              89
1967            50,303              6,376             7,677             241
1968            53,035             11,117             5,542             640
C. EXPORTS
1960                266             3,594                44              77
1961                221             6,007                30              96
1962               862              5,392               218             126
1963               114              5,461               274             168
1964               674              9,158               461              31
1965             6,170              8,701             :1,488             91
1966             3,621              9,375            :1.,489            216
1967             5,602              4,010               555               7
1968               961              8,900               461              54
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins, 1958-68,
and Statistics of Foreign Trade, 1958-68.
February 9, 1970



i A
w
40



TABLE 8
YUGOSLAVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/2/
PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS
A. For Four-Lane Divided Expressways (only two-lanes constructed initially)
Applied on the expressways Zenica-Sarajevo and Belgrade-Novi Sad
Type of Terrain
Design Characteristic               Unit            Flat             Rollin,
Design Speed                        km/h            120              120 (100)
Maximnum Gradient                    %                 3.00            4.00
Width of (a) Through Lanes          im            2 @ 3.75         2 @ 3.75
(b) Slow Moving Lane-      m                _                3.00
Minimum Width of Shoulder
(a) including Slow
Moving Lane            m                                 4.00
(b) without Parking
Areas for disabled
vehicles               m                 2.C50            2.50
(c) with Parking Areas
for disabled vehicles  m                 1.00            1.()0
Minimur Width of Center Media n      m                4.o0C)           4.oo
Minimum Horizontal Slght Distance
(non-passing)                    m               270              270 (200)
Type of Wearing Surface5/                            Asphalt concrete



TABLS 8
(continued)
YUGOSLAVIA - THIBD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/2/
PROJECT DESIGN STANIDARDS
6/
B. For Two-Lane Highways of Category 2_
Applied on the trunk highways Bar-Ulcinj and Pec-Pristina-Nis
Type of Terrain
Characteristic       Unit       Rlin          Hil           Mountainous
Design Speed                km/h        100(80)      80(60)           60(40)
Maximum Gradient             %            4           6                6( 7)
Width of Lanes               m        3.75(3.50)   3.50(3.00)       3.00
Width of Shoulder            m        2.50(1.50)   1.50(1.00)       1.00
Minimum Horizontal Sight
Distance (non passing)       m         185(130)     130(85)           85(50)
Type of Wdearing Surface     -                       Asphalt concrete
1/ All project roads have been designed for a singLe-axle-load of 10 metric
tons. For standards not covered in this l-isting, the Federal Design
Standards published in March 1969 will govern.
2/ Exceptional limits are indicated by ( ).
3/ An additional paved lane for heavy trucks and o-ther slow moving motorized
traffic on steep up-gradients.
/ Not needed initially as only one-half of the  -:Lane expressway is to be
constructed.
5/ In the case of the expressway Belgrade-Novi Sad, only the asphalt binder
course winll be placed; an asphalt concrete wearing surface will be applied
in the future when required and is not included in the project.
6/ In mountainous terrain and in such other areas aLs may be deemed appropriate,
parking areas for disabled vehicles shall be prcvided. They shall be 3.0 m
wide (measured from the wearing surface edge to the face of guard rail) by
40 m long, spaced at about 0.5 Ion intervals on alternate sides of the road.
May 1, 1970



TABLE 9
YUGOSLAVIA - FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project Highway Sections
Dinars (millions)                                                                US$ (millions equivalent)
Project     Right-of                                                            Project      Rlight-of 
Preparation     Way      Construction  Supervision  Contingencies   Total    Preparation         Way       Construction  Supervision   Contingencies   Total
Highway and/or Highway Section
BAR - ULCINJ
Eligible for Bank financing          -           -           115.0           6.3          16.5         137.8          -            _             9.20         0.50             1.32          11.02
Not Eligible for Bank               3.0         8.3            -              -              -          11.3         0.24         0.66            -            -                -             0.90
financing                                                                                       iT7                                                                                   11.92
BELGRADE - NOVI SAD
Eligible                             -           -           343.5         17.2           49.2         409.9          -            -            27.48         1.38             3.94          32.80
Not Eligible                        9.0         4D.5           -              -              -          49.5         0.72         3.24            -            -                -              3.96
PEC - PRISTINA - NIS
(i)  Pec-Zaimovo
Eligible                          -           -            30.o          1.6            4.3          35.9          -            -             2.40         0.13             0.34           2.87
Not Eligible                     0.6         3.1            -              -              -           3.7         0.05         0.25            -            -                -              0.30
39.                                                                                  53.17
(ii)  Komoran-Velika Zlatina                                          /                                                                                 1/
Eligible                          -           -            17.11-        0.9            2.5          20.5          -            -             1.37-        0.07             0.20            1.64
Not Eligible                     0.6         1.9            -              -              -           2.5         0.05         0.15            -                                            0.20
23.0                                                                                  1
(iii)  Podujevo-Popelevac
Eligible                          -           -           91.8           4.6           13.1         109.5          -            -             7.35         0.37             1.05            8.77
Not Egiibile                     2.4        10.1                           -              -          12.5         0.19         0.81            -            -                 -             1.00
Scc.O                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.77
Total (i-iv):  Eligible           -           -                           7.1791       19.9                        -            -            11.12         0159                            1.3.28
Not Eligible       3.6       15.1            -              -              -           18.7        0.29         1.21             -            -                -             1.50
114.78
SARAJEVO - ZENICA
Eligible                           -          -           422.5          21.3           60.5        504.3          -            -            33.80         1.70              4.85          40.35
Not Eligible                     12.5       22.5            -              -              -           35.0        1.00         1.80             -            -                -             2.80
333.15
Grand Total:   Eligible            -          -         1,019.9          51.9          146.1      1,217.9           -           -            81.60         4.15             11.70          97.45
Not Eligible      28.1       86.4            _              -              -          114.5         2.25        6.91             -            -                -              9.16
28.1 MTT               1,019.9          71T9          l14.1      1T,332.1         774        76.91           81.60         77              11.70         1-0661
/ Includes railway br-dge and approaches at Kosovo Poije, with a total length of 600 m and estimated to
cost US$250,000 equivalent.
May 1, 1970



YUGOSLAVIA - FOURrI HIGHWAY PROJECT
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC, 1969 - 1991
Actual                           Projections fior New Highways
Highway Section             1969                   1972         1977          19t2          1991
Bar - Ulcinj                 1,200                  1,600        2,800         4,ooo         7,000
Belgrade - Novi Sad          5X50)                  7,7007      13,o00        22,200        45oOOO
Nis - Pristina                 890                  2,300        4,300         5,900         89500
Pee - Pristina                 65-'                 1,300        2,200         3,,000        h,8o
I/                    1/
Sarajevo - Zenica            1,900-                 2,900        5.700         9,000        18,5oo
1/  Through traffic only                                                                                     |
February 9, 1970



YUGOSIAVIA - FOURTH HIGIMAY PA?OJECT
I(OTOR  IC     OPERATIG COSTS A        GS PER MA.
T(Dinars, net ofxtaees)
Bar-Ulcinj                 Belgrade--lovi Sad            iTis-Pristina
Existing Proposed              Existing Proposed              Existing Proposed
Highway IEghway  Saving (,0)  Highway  Highway  Saving (i)  Highway  HiLgway  Saving (iO)
?assenger Car            0.603    o.524   0.079   13    0594    0.5o01   0.093  16    o.665    0.496   0.169  25
Autobus   2/
(44 seats)              2.976    2.388   0.588   20    2.834    2,226   0,608  21    3.016    2.206   0.810  27
Light Truck
(4.5 m ton)             1.807    1.484   0.323   18    1.720    1,378   0.342  20    1.862    1.383   0.479  26
Heavy Truck
(7 m ton)               2.934    2.355   0.579   20    2.794    2.236   0t558  20    3.194    2.l96   0.998  31
Truck with Trailer
(7 m ton & 8 m ton)     3.701    2.971   0,730   20    3,525    2.820   0.705  20    4.054    2.770  lr284  32
1/  excluding the value of time for any occupanits                                                                   CD
2/  excluding the value of time for passengers
February 9, 1970



YUGOSLAVIA - FOURTH 11IGMWAY PROJEOT
MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS AiqD SAVINGS PER KM
LD.inars,; net of taxes)-
Pec-Pristina                               Zenica-Sarajevo
Existing Proposed                          Existing Proposed
Highway Highway  Saving  (       ,)        Highway  H         Saving (')
Passenger Car/                  0.548    0.496    0.052   10               0,624    0.510   0.114    18
Autobus   2/
(44 seats)                    2.510    2.206    0.304   12                2.976    2.308   o.668    22
light Truck
(4.5 m ton)                   1.584    1.383    0.201   13                1.807    1.422   0.385    21
Heavy Truck
(7 n ton)                     2.495    2.196    0.299   12                2.934    2.295   o,639    22
Truck with Trailer
(7 m ton & 8 m ton)           3.148    2.770    0.378   12                3.701    2.896   o.805    22
1/   excluding the value of time for any occupants                                     . 
2/   excluding the value of time for passengers
February 9, 1970



ANNEX I
Iage I
Y1GCSIAVIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Extract from Appraisal Report (PTR-16a dated May 1'), 1969)
for Third Highway Loan No. 608-YU
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Yugoslavia has an area of 255,804 km2, about the same as the Federal
Republic of Germany or the United Kingdom. The population is about 20 million
and is growing at an annual rate of 1%.
2.02      The economy is diversified:  agriculture, mining, manufacturing and
tourism all account for significant portions of economic activity. Mineral
resources being exploited include iron, lead and zinc, bauxite and lignite,
oil and natural gas. Although a large part of the countr,y is mountainous,
agriculture thrives in the many valleys and, more extensively, in the rich
plains in the north and northeast. Manufacturing has developed rapidly in
all parts of the country. Yugoslavia has many tourist attractions; foreign
tourism has developed rapidly along the entire Adriatic ccast. Transit trade
continues to be important due to the country's position astride the Balkan
Peninsula.
2.03      The economy grew rapidly between 1962 and 1966, at an average rate
of about 7% per year. In 1967, the rate of growth was considerably lower,
*      about 1%, as the economy was adjusting to economic reforms introduced sinc,
1965, but it rose again to somewhat over 4% in 1968. The gross "material"l/
product amounted to Din 110 billion or about US$8.8 billion equivalent. GNP
per capita, according to the custonary national accounting concepts, is esti-
mated at about LIS$550.
2.04      Yugoslavia is a socialist federal state composed of six republics;
one republic, Serbia, includes two autonomous provinces. These governmental
entities have considerable autonomy and authority over their affairs, in-
cluding basic decisions over investment in infrastructure. There are marked
differences among these entities: per capita income is three to four times
higher in the more developed parts of the country than in the lesser developed
parts; there are three official languages as well as relLgious and other
cultural differences.
i/ The gross "material" product, a Yugoslav economic index, is similar to
GNP but excludes certain services such as public administration, defense,
education, and professional services.



ANNEY. I
Pa-ge Tr
2.05      The organization of the economy is based on workers' self-management
of enterprises. The reform measuwes of recent years have aimed at a reorien-
tation of the economy, making the enterprises increasingly independent in their
decisions and subject to the operation of rmrket forces. They have also aimed
at bringing the entire economy into closer relation with the world market;
trade with the convertible currency countries has increased.
B. Transportation in Yugoslavia
2.06      The main lines of transport in Yugoslaiia (Map) run along a north-
west-southeast axis in keeping with the mountainous terrain and river valleys
and in serving the principal agricultural and incdustrial areas. The Central
and Adriatic Highways form the main axes of the highway network and are part
of the European highway system. The Zupanja-Opuzen highway, being completed
under Loan 485-YU, will greatly improve highway tlransport between the Adriatic
and the Central Highway.                                                            J
2.07      Intermational highway connections are cf special concern to Yugo-
slavia because it has a border with seven cauntries. European highways tra-
versing Yugoslavia extend through Eastern, Western, Central and Southern
Europe. Several international connections, particularly those with Italy
and Austria, have become very important as tourist routes.
2.08      The recent trend in transport is indicated below; the share of rail-
way traffic in total traffic is declining, while the share of road transport
is increasing.
Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-.km)
Highways             Water
Year   Total   Railways    Buses    Cars           Transport      Airways
1964   22.8       12.3        4.8     5.1             0.2           0.4 .
1966   29.8       12.2        8.0     8.9             0.2           0.5
Freight Traffic
(billion m ton-km)
Year   Total    Railways                 Highways             Water Transport
Trucking       Own       Iand       Coastal
Enterprises    Account  Waterways   Traffic
i964   28.6       18.3                2.4           42.4       3.1         0.4
1966   32.0       17.5                3.6           6-.7       3.9         0.3
2.09      Railway freight, which reached a peak in 1964, has since declined
by about 7% mainly as a result of the closing of uneconomic lines, a shift
from coal to oil as fuel, and increased competition from road transport.



ANNEX I
rage-e -
Nevertheless, the railways remain the largest carrier of freight, accounting
for over 50% of total freight (for more details see Table 1).
2.10      The railways are also important carriers of passengers, but since
1966 they have been replaced by road transport as the prime mode of passenger
travel. Road passenger traffic has increased very rapidly in recent years
(Table 2), a trend which is expected to continue in the next few years, mainly
as a result of a further fast growth in the number of private cars (Table 3).
Truck transport has been increasing at about 20% per year.  River transport
has retained an important and competitive place in Yugoslav transport. JAT,
the national airline, serves the major cities of the country and Europe.
Rijeka remains the dominant maritime port, though some traffic will be trans-
ferred to Bar as that port expands and the new railway to Belgrade is completed.
2.11      In 1967, investment in transportation amounted to Din 2.4 billion.
This corresponded to about 10% of total fixed investment in the economy.
2.12      Although responsibility for infrastructure investment has shifted
to the Republics, substantial Federal participation has continued because of
ongoing commitments. In 1967, the Govermnent spent Din 207 million (Table 4)
on new highway construction, mainly for completion of the Skopje-Adriatic
highway.  Although there is no law that precludes further Federal financing,
there are no plans (apart from ongoing commitments) for doing so in highways.
A special Federal fund for aiding the less developed regions can, however,
be used for intrastructure including highways.
C. Transport Coordination
2.13      Some problems of transport coordination existed in earlier years:
revenues from road user charges failed to cover adequate maintenance of the
highway network while the railways maintained uneconomic lines and were
charging rates below cost for some commodities and services. The Government
has been aware of these problems and its policies have aimed at establishing
fair competitive conditions for all major modes of transport. The low rail-
way rates mentioned above have been raised, several uneconomic lines have
been closed, and road user charges have been raised. The Government has
commissioned the Transport Institute of Belgrade to prepare a comprehensive
study of the competitive position of rail and road transport; this study
might be completed in 1970. The Government gave assurances during loan
negotiations that it would make the draft of the above report available when
it is completed and, in general, would exchange views w:ith the Bank regard-
ing the development of transport and particularly regarding measures for
improving coordination and planning in the transport sector.
2.l4      At the present time, the market is the dominrant force regulating
competition within road transport.  The conditions of entry into the field
are liberal, transport rates generally reflect costs, and the road transport
enterprises are free to set their own rates. Transport for own account and
transport by some private operators offer a strong coMpetitive challenge to
trucking enterprises (Table 1).



ANNEX I
Pa-g 4~
2.15      According to Federal regulations, the revenues from specific road
user charges are distributed to the Republics and other local authorities
and must be devoted to maintenance and improvement of the existing highways.
These revenues can be augmented by contributions from the budgets of the
Republics and other local authorities at their discretion. Revenues from
road user charges have been as follows:
1966        1967         l968i/
(Din-MIlion)
1. Tax on gasoline and diesel oil          276         498           742
2. Fees on motor vehicles                  155         171           220
3.  Fees on trucks and trailers             46           46           46
4. Taxes on foreign motor vehicles          12           12           12
Total revenues                         489         727         1,020            J
2.16      Although the available statistical info:rmation is not conclusive,
the indication is that the previous shortfall betwTeen revenues from road
user charges and maintenance expenditures has been eliminated. The imiprove-
ment is the result of the rapid increase in traffic in recent years and an
increase in the tax on fuel.  The Government estiLmates that revenues will be
sufficient by 1970 not only to cover adequate maintenance but also a large
part of improvement expenditure.
2,17      As to the railways, they have cOmplied with the agreement under
Loan 531-YU to increase rates and fares aiming to meet financial goals.
Passenger fare increases of 6.3% and 12; were made! effective in July 1968 and
in March 1969, respectively. On October 1, 1968, freight rates were raised
on average by 4.8% (based on 1967 traffic data). Despite these increases,
the financial goals for 1969 may not be fully attained, mainly because traf-
fic has been lower than expected. The railways are preparing a plan of action,
for the timely achievement of these financial goals.
2.18      The administrative reorganization of 1967 has raised a new issue of    J
transport coordination, namely how to replace the coordinative role previously
performed by the Federal Government in regard to highway planning. The Fed-
eral Government now defines its functions as lbeing limited to legislation of
basic laws regarding highway finances, minimun design standards, etc. Although
the Government intends to collect information on the various highway programs
and collate them into the next Five-Year Plan, for 1971-75, the Republics
and Autonomous Provinces will be solely responlsible for preparing the highway
plans.  As a result, it is possible that there will be insufficient coordi-
nation of investments in the highways serving more than one Republic. The
Yugoslav Government is aware of this problem and is carrying out special
studies to improve the coordination of investments in the highway sector.
I/ Estimated by Federal Secretariat for Economy.



ANNEX I
Pa g-e
D. Highway Network and Highwqay Transport
2.19      The highway network (Table 5), which is about 80,000 km long, con-
sists mostly of low standard roads built in the first instance to serve
animal-drawn vehicles or light motor traffic. The present total length of
paved highways is only about 17,000 k1m; the rest consists mainly of gravel
highways and to a lesser extent of earth highways. More than half of the
paved highways have been built since 1962 (Table 6). Despite this effort,
the modernization of the highway network has not kept pace with the expan-
sion in motor traffic and in particular with heavier comTiercial traffic.,
Most highways, including some of the newly paved highways, do not have
adequate bearing capacity and suffer severe damage from heavy trucks in
areas subject to deep frost. Many highway sections need a whole new pave-
menit structure. Also, the traffic on certain sections requires the intro-
*       duction of four-lane divided highways with access control and grade separa-
tion of crossings. The highway authorities in the Republics and Autonomous
Provinces are assessing highway needs and priorities for construction and
improvement; they have large programs in preparation.
2.20      The recent rapid growth of high-way traffic is due to many under-
lying factors. Between 1963 and 1967, the nmnber of cars increased over
300% and trucks almost doubled (Table 3).  The manufacture of passenger cars
in Yugoslavia increased from about 20,000 in 1963 to 48,000 and imports from
950 to 50,000 (Table 7); there are plans to increase domestic output to over
100,000 vehicles per year in the near future. Another factor is the rapid
increase in tourism. The total number of foreigners entering Yugosalavia,
excluding crossings by frontier residents, increased from about 3 million
in 1963 to about 23 million in 1967, mainly on account of an increase in the
number of short-term visitors. The corresponding official foreign exclhange
receipts rose from US$68 million to US$186 million. The increase in receipts
is lower than in the number of tourists, mainly because there has been a
shift toward popular tourism and also because of a greater use of unofficial
exchange facilities.  In 1967, approximately 4 million visitors were classi-
fied as tourists (long stay), 17 million as excursionist,s (short stay), and
2 million as transit.  By far the larger part arrived by- car or bus.
E. Highay Administration and Organization
2.21      There has been a major change in highway administration since the
second highway loan made early in 1967. The Federal Basic Law on Public
Roads (1967) has made the Republics and Autonomous Provinces almost entirely
responsible for the planning, design, construction, maintenance, and financ-
ing of all public roads in the area for which they are responsible. There
are still four administrative classes of highways (see Table 5). The Federal
Assembly decides which highways fall into Class I; these highways usually
traverse more than one Reptublic. The Republics are authorized to designate
Class II and III roads. Class IV roads are under the jurisdiction of the
communes (comparable to municipalities).



ANNEX I
Page 6
2.22      There is no uniform organization for highway administration in the
Republics. Croatia, Bosnia-Hercegovina, Macedonia, Slovenia and VoJvodina-1/
have Road Funds (Chart), which are public agencies with their own funds,
responsible for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of roads.
However, many of these functions are contracted out, subject to the super-
vision of Fund staff. Generally, a Fund is governed by a Board of 21 members,
including a Presidents twho are appointed by either the Assembly or the Execu-
tive Council of the Republic. Board members are selected to represent poli-
tical., professional and economic interests.
2.23      Serbia, Kosovo-Metohija1.' and Monteniegro have Road Councils, which
are similar to Road Funds but have considerably less administrative capacity.
At the present time, they are simply control bodies, mainly responsible for
the admLinistration of earmrked funds accruing from road user charges. Since
they are not staffed to carry out all the functions of highway administration
they have delegated most of these functions to road maintenance enterprises.
2.24      The 1967 reorganization also restructured the administration of
highway maintenance. At the time of the second Bank loan, the revenues
earmarked for maintenance and improvement were collected in each of 34
territories across the country; they were channeled directly to road main-
tenance enterprises, which were organized under a special law and charged
with highway maintenance in their areas.
2.25      The earmarked funds now go to the Road Funds or Councils. As a
result, there is greater flexibility in matching available funds to highway
needs. Furthermore, the road maintenance enterprises no longer have a
special status; they have been made subject to the basic Federal legisla-
tion for all industrial and commercial enterprises., Consequently routine
maintenance is now covered by negotiated, contractual arrangements between
the Road Funds or Councils and the road maintenance enterprises.  Organ-
izational arrangements differ, however. For example, in Slovenia the Road
Fund has separate contracts with seven autonomous enterprises; in Croatia
four regional Road Funds which are solely responsible for highway mainten-
ance, deal with enterprises in seven areas; while in Macedonia there is only
one amalgamated road maintenance enterprise. Contracts for improvement
projects are also negotiated, sometimes after compeltitive bidding by road
enterprises from all over the country.
2.26      According to the Federal Basic Law on PIublic Roads, the earmarked
funds for highways can be devoted to both maintenance and improvement of the
existing network. Improvement can be interpreted to include new road con-
struction provided the new highway follows substantially the existing
alignment. This may allow maintenance funds to be diverted to new construc-
tion. With a view to eliminating this possibility, the Government intends
to review the Federal Basic Law pertaining to the use of earmarked funds
and all pertinent regulations and laws relating to the highway sector, in
order to reflect the experience gained in the past two years. The three
Republics involved in the project have given assurances that maintenance
will have first call on earmarked funds.
1/ Autonomous Provinces.



ANNEX I
Page 7
2.27      The Road Funds and Councils are still adjusting to the new organi-
zation of highway administration. Some pressing problems relating to staffing,
data collection and processing, and coordination can alreaady be identified.
As to the first problem, the Road Funds involved in the project have satis-
factory plans for strengthening their organizations and are actively recruit-
ing additional staff.
2.28      As to the problem of data collection and processing., representative
traffic volume counts have been organized for the entire country during the
past few years. These counts are taken manually on speci.fied days and hours
and in accordance with common procedures agreed to by most European countries.
Although these counts provide very useful information, they are not fully
*        adequate for project preparation and the overall planning of the highway
network. Therefore, the Road Funds and Councils should :Lmprove the system-
atic collection and processing of data required to make an adequate assess-
ment of the technical, economic, and financial aspects of the highway networ]k
and traffic. With regard to the highway network, the data should cover the
physical characteristics and the cost of administrations construction, and
mraintenance. With regard to traffic, the required data would fall into three
broad categories:  (i) vehicle flows; (ii) volume, nature, and movement of
goods and passengers; and (iii) transportation costs and rates. To the largest
extent possible these data should be collected and processed on a uniform
country-wide basis. During loan negotiations, the Federal Government and the
three Republics expressed their intention to cooperate in improving the system
of collecting and processing data pertaining to highway transport.
2.29      As to coordination in the highway sector, there are three basic
issues:  First, there is inadequate coordination of highway investments, as
explained above in paragraph 2.18.  Second, there is a need to improve the
dissemination of technical knowledge and other information pertaining to
the highways. The Government and the Yugoslav Road Association have this
matter under consideration,  Third, within the Road Fund or Councils, there
is also insufficient coordination between the various disciplines engaged
in overall highway planning and in project preparation; in particular the
role of the economist needs to be strengthened. The Road Funds involved
in the project are taking steps to improve the coordimation of work within
their organizations.



co              CO



Y(UOSLAVIA:  FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                      ANNEX II
Construction and/or Improve!cnt of Access and Connecting Roads to Project Highways
Width of Proposed Roadway                                                      Com,pletion of           Period of
Description                           L               and Each Shoulder 2,            Estimated Total Cost in Millions         Detailed Engineering    Construction
m)                  (meters                      inars
I.  Project Highway, Bar-Ulcinj
1. Access Road to Bar                          2.0                  7.0 (1-5)                    1.2                0.10                     completed             1971/1972
2. Access Road to Ulcinji                      2.2                  7.0 (1.5)                    1.6                0.12                     completed             1971/1972
II.  Project Highway, Belgrade-Novi Sad
1.  Access Road to Belgrade:
(a}  Lenin Boulevard                       4.0           10.0 (2.75 and 2.25)               33.2                2.66                     end 1970              1971/1972
(b1  Lenin Boulevard                       2.9           10.0 (2.75 and 6.0)                49.2                3.94                        "                  1971/1973
(c)  Transversal Road T-6                  2.3           10.0 (2.50 and 7.0)                414.0               3.52                        *                  1971/1973
(d)  Part of Route E-94                                11.5 (2.0) and 11.5 (2.0)
1.4         with 3m median between              29.0                 2.32                                           1971/1973
Subtotal 1.                       10.6                                           l1b                   1.4
2. Access Road to Novi Sad                     3.1          7.5 (1.5) and 7.5 (1.5)              8.6                 0.69                     July 1970                1972
with lun median between
3. Access Road to Subotica
(north of Novi Sad)                      1.8                  7.5 (1.5)                                       0.26                     July 1970                 1972
157                                             167.3                13.39
III.  Project Highway, Pec-Pristina-lis
1.  Main Road Zaisovo-Komoran                 34.1                  7.0 (1-5)                   25.0                 2.0-0                    completed             1969/1970
2.  Main Road Kosovo Polje-Pristina            5.1                  7.0 (2.0)                    5.0                 0. 4o                    coJnv1eted            1972/1973
3.  By-Pass Road at Pristina                   2.0                  7.0 (2.0)                    9.2                 0.74                     end 1970              1972/1973
4.  Access Road to Podujevo                    1.3                  7.0 (2.0)                    1.8                 0.114                    completed                 1972
5. Access Road to Kursumlija                   2.6                  6.0 (1.0)                    2.6                 0.21                     completed             1970/1973
L7                                               43,6                 3.1M9
IV . Project Hi         arhwr aVo--enica
1.  Access Road to Josanica                     0.6                 6.0 (1.0)                    5.5                 0.44                     end 1970                  1971
2. Access Roads to Podlugovi                    8.6                 5.0 (0.75)                   3.2                 0.26                                               1970
3.  Access Road to Visoko                       0.9                 7.0 (1.0)                    8.o                 0.10                                            1971/1973
4. Access Road to Kakanj                        0.5                 6.0 (1.0)                    1.2                 0.10                     end 1971                  1972
5. Access Road to Kaonik-Lasua                  5.3                 6.0 (1.0)                    8.5                 o.68                     end 1970               1971/1973
6. Access Road to Zenica                        0.5                 7.5 (1.0)                    7.2                 i.58                     end 1970               1971/1973
M7T                                              34.4                 2.76
Grand Total5                           10.2                                            248.1               19.86
I/  All roadways will be designed for a single axle-load of 10 metric tons and will receive an asnhalt-concrete surfacing
2/ Unbracketed figures denote pavementwidth;  Bracketed single figure denotes width of shoulder on each side of pavement;
two figures irsdicate different shoulder width on each side of pavement.
May 1, 1970



to                 (6



YUGOSLAVIA: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION OF A ROAD FUND
r- -  - -~ -  ~--            FEDERAL ASSEMBLY                |
I           r -- -   FEDERAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
I  FEDERAL SECRETARIAT             FEDERAL SECRETARIAT
FOR FINANCE                       FOR ECONOMY
DEPARTMENT
,________L__    - -                                                                            FOR TRANSPORTATION
r
SIMILAR            I                        ASSEMBLY OF SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ORGANIZATION    I
1 IN THE OTHER    I                   j
FIVE REPUBLICS   I
I AND IN THE TWO  I                                                                                         I
I AUTONOMOUS                        L.-    I         EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF MACEDONIA
PROVINCES *        I
ROAD FUND                                             SECRETARiAT
i     FOR ECONOMY
21 MEMBER BOARD  HEADED                                      FOR ECONOM-
BY A PRESIDENT
DIRECTOR                                      ~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT
L  DIRECTOR                        j                      FOR TRANSPORTATION
DEPARTMENT FOR           !                              DEPARTMENT FOR                                        DEPARTMENT FOR
STUDY AND DESIGN                                  I                                iAND RECONSTRUCTION                                    '      '
r--           - ---                -     ------- -  - 4--                 -                -I--
7~~~ 7            ECONO~~~MIC                                     ROAD)                                                   OA
ENTERPRISES                   L        1                                L~~~~~~~~~CONTRCTONMAINTENANCE
INSTITUTES             E                     ENTERPRISES           INSTITUTES                       ENTERPRISE                                  Organizations and enterprises
separate from Road Fund but
cooperating with it in the
execution of its duties
* Differences F_r the other t-o Republics involve:
In Cruotii -  The Road Fund reports to the Secretariat for Economy ond does not include a deportment for maintenance and reconstnuctiin; these functions ore under the jurisdiction
of four region-l offices reporting direcly to the Secreltriat for Economy. Thern are separate rood enterprises for eoch of seven maintenrnce territories.
In Slivenic - The Rood Fund combines all duties in only three Departments, nmely for Highwoyn (planning, design and construction)  Maintence and Reconstruction, nd General
(ldriniitrti.n) . The resident D also chief e--ecutie officer. There ore separate rood enterprises for ouch of se-n territories.
Decer,ber 1969                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43391R,



a
a



&~~~                                                                                                                                                                                  C
A        U  S       T   j>- zR    I    A             R. OS  U U9b O
L_ .  b..                                                      H           U          N          G          A        ;S   R            YP E
FOUHR  CLASS I WADGHWAYS EROJECT                                                                             f            ,                                        A       N      i     A
F q3                                                                                                                         0  LI VO DI NA~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2    4  0    0    00'
----KHIGHWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION  j  )  i !       i           SKOPJOR       70
mf_.F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G E q
'-------- BDUND~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARIF FRPBISGAJUTONMUPRVCE- inj_P osr1
SECOND HIGHWAY PROdECT                                                       .%                                                            z (  Klcev et x ~~~~~~~~GHWA
HIG  HWR  lHAY PROJETEMj                                                                                                                                                           _f        ~        )f*
E FUROPEA hIGHWAYSPoET,.                                                                                                                                   e    
(E HIGHWAY GRIDGER  ATCONSTUIOVO  POJ                                                                                            DT.t   n                        \rX
BDUN~~~~~~~DA2.R40EDS8 lOFl';2>-  R EPULC     AUOOMU  POIC ES                        u7
FEBRUARYS H197DA  PROJED                                                                                                                                                                                                      e7D



