RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-809
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 6, 1970



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO YUGOSIAVIA
FOR THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $h0 million to Yugoslavia,
to assist in the financing of six highway sections in the Republics of Bosnia-
Hercegovina, Montenegro, and Serbia, and in the Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo
and Vojvodina.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has made fifteen loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount of
$435.5 million, of which $384.2 million was held by the Bank as of March 31,
1970. The proposed loan would be the fourth for highway construction. The
first highway loan, of $35 million, was made in 1963 to help finance con-
struction of sections of the Central and Adriatic Highways. The project was
completed on schedule and within the original cost estimates. The Adriatic
Highway has been an important factor in the development of tourism in
Yugoslavia, while the Central Highway constitutes the country's main arterial
highway. A second loan, of $10 million equivalent, was made in 1967 for the
construction of the Zupanja-Opuzen Highway, which provides a link between the
Central and Adriatic FHghways. The project was satisfactorily completed,
except for a small section which had to be redesigned in connection with the
construction of a hydro-electric plant. To allow completion of this section
under the loan, the Bank agreed to postpone the Closing Date until March 31,
1971. A third loan, of $30 million equivalent, was signed in June 1969 to
help finance the construction of three highway sections in the Republics of
Croatia, Macedonia, and Slovenia, which were part of a larger pro-ram of
high-priority highway construction submitted to the Bank by the Federal
Government in November 1968, and which were undertaken first because of
their advanced stage of preparation. The proposed Fourth Highway Project
includes a second part of this program, namely six sections of four major
highways which were appraised in September 1969. The remaining sections of
the program are being prepared as a basis for possible further Bank
financing.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in WTashington from
April 2 to April 15. The Yugoslav delegation, headed by Mr. Ante Zelic,
Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance, included representatives from the
F1'ederal Government and from the Republics and Autonomous Provinces in which
the project highways are located.



- 2 -
4.      Yugoslavia has received no IDA credits.  The following is a summary
statement of Bank loans to Yugoslavia as of March 31, 1970.
Loan
Number    Year    Borrower                      Purpose            Amount Undisbursed
($ US million)
Loans fully disbursed                          190.5
395-YU    1965    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Railways              70.0       19.6
485-YU    1967    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Highways               10.0       2.0
504-YU    1967    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Industry               10.5       3.0
531-7tU    1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Railways             50.0       39.3
$54-YU    1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Industry              16.0       12.6
608-YtJ    1968    SFR of Yugoslavia            Highways            30.0       30.0
654-YU    1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Industry              18.5       18.5
657-5XU   1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank    Telecommunications  b.0.0        40.0
Total (less cancellations)                               1135.5
of which has been repaid to Bank and others            bl9.3
Total now outstanding                                    386.2
Amount sold                                   5.3
of which has been repaid                   3.3           2.0
Total now held by Bank                                   38b-.2
Total undisbursed                                                   165.0
5.        Execution of all projects has been satisfactory, except for the Second
Railway Project (Loan 395-YU of December 1964), a modernization program of main
lines, which has experienced major difficulties. In the semi-monthly reports to
the Executive Directors of January 8 and April 10, 1970, I reported the Bank had
agreed to limited postponements of the closing date of this loan, from
December 31, 1969 to March 31, 1970, and then to May 31, 1970, to enable the
Yugoslav authorities to submit to the Bank a program which would provide the
railway enterprises with the funds required for the implementation of the project.
Acceptable arrangements have now been worked out by representatives of the Bank
and the Yugoslav Government and I propose to circulate to Executive Directors
shortly a memorandum on this subject.



- 3 -
6.        Yugoslavia became a member of IFC in July 1968.  IFC has been a
prime mover in establishing the International Investment Corporation for
Yugoslavia, in which IFC has taken a $2 million equity participation. In
addition, in conjunction with Loan 654-YU for industrial projects, IFC has
invested $8 million through FIAT in the Zavodi Crvena Zastava-FIAT joint
venture.
7.        It is expected that in the coming fiscal year loan proposals will
be submitted to the Executive Directors covering a multipurpose water supply
project, a tourism project, a further highway project, and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:      Socialist Republics of Bosnia-Hercegovina,
Montenegro, and Serbia, and Socialist
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina.
Amount:              Various currencies equivalent to US $14O million.
Purpose:             To assist in the financing of the following
highways:
Sarajevo-Zenica in Bosnia-Hercegovina;
Bar-Ulcinj in Montenegro;
Belgrade-Novi Sad in Serbia and Vojvodina;
Pec-Pristina-Nis (three sections) in Serbia
and Kosovo.
Amortization:       In 25 years, including a five-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning September 1, 1975 and ending
March 1, 1995.
Interest Rate:       7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:  3/4, of 1 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan will be relent by
the Borrower to the Beneficiaries in local
currency on substantially the same terms
as those of the Bank loan.



- 3 -
6.        Yugoslavia became a member of IFC in July 1968.  IFC has been a
prime mover in establishing the International Investment Corporation for
Yugoslavia, in which IFC has taken a $2 million equity participation. In
addition, in conjunction with Loan 65h-YU for industrial projects, IFO has
invested $8 million through FIAT in tlhe Zavodi Crvena Zastava-FIAT joint
venture.
7.        It is expected that in the coming fiscal year loan proposals will
be submitted to the Executive Directors covering a multipurpose water supply
project, a tourism project, a further highway project, and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:      Socialist Republics of Bosnia-Hercegovina,
Montenegro, and Serbia, and Socialist
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina.
Amount:             Various currencies equivalent to US $40 million.
Purpose:             To assist in the financing of the follovwing
highways:
Sarajevo-Zenica in Bosnia-Hercegovina;
Bar-Ulcinj in Montenegro;
Belgrade-Novi Sad in Serbia and Vojvodina;
Pec-Pristina-Nis (three sections) in Serbia
and Kosovo.
Amortization:       In 25 years, including a five-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning September 1, 1975 and ending
March 1, 1995.
Interest Rate:       7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:  3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan will be relent by
the Borrower to the Beneficiaries in local
currency on substantially the same terms
as those of the Bank loan.



PART III - ThE PROJECT
9.    A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Highway Project - Yugoslavia"
(PTR-4ia) is attached.
10. The substantial growth of the Yugoslav economy over the last decade has
generated a fast rising demand for transport, in particular for road tansport.
The development of the road system has not kept pace with this expansion, and
in order to face current and future needs considerable investamnts are required.
The Yugoslav authorities are aware cf'these needs and have recently given high
priority to the development of the highway network.  7
11. The recent changes, resulting from the Economic Reform in 1965, in the
institutional framework of the highway sector, have posed a number of problems
with respect to staffing, coordination,and project preparation. In keeping
with the principle of decentralization, the Federal Basic Law of 1967 has
shifted the responsibility for the expansion and maintenance of the highway
network from the Federal Governm nt to the Road Funds and Road Councils in
the Republics and Autonomous Provinces!., 1ot all these institutions were_^
yet ready to take over these tasks financially and operationally. During
tke appraisa-i and negotiations of the Third Highway Project the need for
improving staffing, coordination, the allocation of maintenance resources,
and project preparation were reviewed and an understanding was reached with
the Yugaslav authorities on measures for improvement. So far satisfactory
progress has been made in implementing these measures and the Bank will
continue to follow the developments in this field closely.  Since the roads
to be financed under the present project are located in the Republics and
Autonomous Provinces which did not benefit from the previous loan, the under-
takings in the loan documents, taken together with those for the Third Highway
Project, will now cover the whole country.
12.  The -proposed project would assist in financing six sections
of four major highways. The six project sections are located in three
Republics: Bosnia-Hercegovina, Montenegro, and Serbia, and in the two Socialist
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina. The section in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
5arajevo-Zcnica, would be the first stage of a planned four-lane expressway
linking the Central and Adriatic Highways, both of which were improved with a
Bank financed loan (344-YU of 1963). The section in IMontenegro, Bar-Ulcinj,
would be an extension of the Adriatic Highway. It would replace an inadequate
road and help the development of an attractive tourist area. The Belgrade-Novi
Sad section, located mainly in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and partly
in Serbia, would be part of the international highway, London-Istanbul (E-5).
The three remaining project sections, located partly in the Autonomous Province
of Kosovo and partly in the Republic of Serbia, would complete the upgrading of
the Pec-Pristina-Mis road to higher standards.  In total, the project works
comprise the construction of 218 km. of new or improved two-lane roads with
paved surfaces. The proposed investments in the individual road sections
would yield rates of return ranging from 14 to 29 percent.



- 5 -
13.     The project is esti-mated to cost $97.5 million, without including
expenditures for project preparation, acquisition of rights of way, and
the construction or improvement of access and connecting roads estimated
at $29 million.  The proposed loan of $40 million would represent 41 per-
cent of the project cost, the balance, including any cost overruns, being
provided Prom various internal sources. It is a condition of effectiveness
of the loan that these financing arrangements have been made satisfacto-
rily.
14.     The proceeds of the Bank loan would be lent by the Federal Govern-
menti in dinars to the Republics and Autonomous Provinces concerned on
substantially the same terms as those of the Bank loan. This lending
would be governed by agreements which set out the obligations regarding
project implementation of the Republics and Autonomous Provinces concerned,
each of which has set up an agency to handle its part of the project.
15.     All construction contracts would be awarded after international
competitive bidding. The various sections of the project are large enough
to attract foreign bidders, and foreign contractors have shown recently
an increasing interest in bidding for work on Bank-financed projects in
Yugoslavia. Depending on whether local or foreign contractors win the
bids and the extent to which they use imaported equipment, foreign ex-
penditures can range between 15 and 40 per cent of the project cost.
Since the Yugoslav contracting industry is in a good competitive position,
it is most likely that foreign expenditure will be at the lower end of
this range, and that the Bank loan will therefore contain a significant
element of local expenditure financing.
16.     Yugoslavia's needs for external capital over the next few years
are large. Given the competitiveness of manufacturing and contracting
enterprises in Yugoslavia, it is not practicable to provide the necessary
external capital by financing only imported capital goods required for
high priority projects, and some financing of local expenditure is neces-
sary. Road development in Yugoslavia has high priority and has substan-
tially contributed to foreigh exchange earnings, and the various roads
to be financed under the loan proposed show high rates of return. In
these exceptional circumstances, the Bank is justified in including some
local expenditure in the proposed loan
17.     The highways are expected to be opened to traffic at the end of
1973, but a grace period of five years has been proposed to help alleviate
the heavy external debt service burden the country is facing in the coming
year.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL UISTRLTIUETS AND AUTHORITY
15.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and a draft
Resolution approving the Loan are being distributed separately. The
draft Loan Agreement contains  the usual provisions for higl`way projects
taking into account the fact that three Re7uubli3s and two Autonomous
Provinces will be responsible for the implementation of the project.
Section 5.01 would stipulate that the Borrower shall enter into an appro-
priate Suibsidiary Loan Agreement with each Subsidiary Borrower for the
purpose of relending the loan proceeds. The substantive undertakings of
each Subsidiary Borrower to be included in the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreements are spelled out in detail in Section 5.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement.  The cxccutvion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
the passiimg of a Decision or, Financing by eadi Subsidiary Borrower -will
be conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. The failure of any
Subsidiary Borrower to carry out the obligations under its Subsidiary
Loan Agreement wihich are described in Section 5.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement would entitle the Bank to suspend or cancel the Loan.
PART V - THE ECONOPiY
19.     A report on the Yugoslav economy has been circulated to the cu-
tive Directors on February 12, 1970.
20.     After the 1968 economic revival, during which GNP increased by
about 4 per cent, the growth rate accelerated in 1969, resulting in
expansion of GIMP by more than 8 per cent and of industrial production
by over 11 per cent. This high growth rate was accompanied by some
internal liquidity problems, price rises and a large deficit of the
trade balance. Excess demand created a growing threat to the country's
incernal financial stability, causing the Government to revert to a
restrictive monetary policy.  However, the imipact of credit restrictions
was delayed partly becauise of excess liquidity created in 1968, but also
because they w7ere not adequately supported by similar measures in the
fields of fiscal and income policies. Economic activity therefore conti-
nued to expand and prices continued to rise in 1969 (the cost of living
index rose by 8 per cent).
21.     On the external side, limitations to rapid growth also became
apparent. Even though export earnings have developed exceptionally well,
rising by 16 per cent in 1969, they were not able to keep pace with
imports, which rose by 19 per cent. Even though most of the trade balanrce
deficit was covered by a high invisible surplus (especially from fast-
growi-ng tourism and workerst reTittances), the current account deficit



- 7 -
increased to a level that could probably not be sustained without creating
a serious debt problem. In 1969, net capital inflows more than covered
the current account gap and, as a result, gold and convertible foreign
exchange reserves grew by $136 million to about $320 million at the end
of December - equivalent to nearly three months of imports. This increase
in reserves considerably strengthens the country's external position,
and makes it less vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in its external
payments. On the other hand, the size of external debt has also grown
considerably and, because of the prevalence of shorter-term suppliers'
credits, its structure was unfavorably affected. Debt service payments
to convertible currency countries rose from 19 percent of earnings in
such curremies on goods and services in 1968 to an eetimated 23 percent
in 1969. To help relieve the debt problem while keeping a high growth
rate, the country should obtain foreign loans on more favorable terms.
22.       During the first months of 1970, production and exports expanded
rapidly, while the growth of imports slowed down. AP a result, foreign
exchange reserves increased further.  If present economic policies, aimed
at faster expansion and better control of demand, are vigorously applied,
the Yugoslav economy could achieve in 1970 its stated goal of a 7.0 -
7.5 percent GINP growth without unduly high price rises or unfavorable
effects on the balance of payments. This prospect is enhanced by the
recent trade agreement with the EEC, which introduces mutual trade
concessions and should, in particular, facilitate Yugoslav meat exports.
23.       Considering its favorable growxth performance and prospects and
its rising foreign exchange earnings (especially from the convertible
currency area), Yugoslavia is considered creditworthy for further Bank
lending.
PART VI - CODPLIANCE WITH ARTICIES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECODITENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1970



