Do[RnI of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Report No. 6154
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 705-NEP)
April 21, 1986
Industrial Development & Finance Division
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 18.8
Rs 1.00 = US$0.0532
ABBREVIATIONS
HMG    -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICICI  -  Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDA    -  International Development Association
IDP    -  Indastrial Development Project
ISC    -  Industrial Services Centre
KfW    -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauftan
NIDC   -  Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NRB    -  Nepal Rastra Bank
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
HMG/Financial Institutions: July 16 to July 15



For OMCML USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DimctotGrn4I
Opsiatons fvakat.o
April 21, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Nepal - Industrial Development
Corporation (Credit 705-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report: Nepal - Industrial Development Corporation (Credit
705-NEP)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Under the
modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFIIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL: NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CREDIT 705-NEP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............,.................i
BASIC DATA SHEET ....    .........................   ii
DISBURSEMENTS ...... o* .........                                      iv.....0  iv
HIGHLIGHTS .................................                            v
I.  INTRODUCTION        I..............................................    1
II*  ENVIRONMENT                     2........................ .    2
1II.  PERFORMANCE OF NIDC 0000000.00000 ...........           0         4
Institutional Aspects .........4............           0      4
Standards and Procedures *o*0000000 ******....00000    00.....  5
operational and Financial Performance 000000000000000000    7
IV.  CREDIT 705-NEP .................0                                  8
V.  CONCLUSIONS  .0.......      ............0......                  14
ANNEXES
1.  NIDC's Organizational Structure .......oooo*o*o.o.***oooooo   16
2.  Projected and Actual Loan Operations .......ooooooooooo    18
3.  Projected and Actual Income Statements          ..........  ...  19
4.  Projected and Actual Balance Sheet Statements 0000000*000000   20
5.  Arrears Position .........00 000000000000000000000 00000000000   21
6-9.  Subprojr-at Data **o000000000000000000000000 00000000.......     22
10.  Commentc From the Borrower *        ........ ..oooooooooooo   26
This docutmnt has a restricted distuibution and may be used by recipients only in the paormance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL: NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NIDC)
(CREDIT 705-NEP)
Preface
This report reyiews the achievements uxder Credit 705-NEP for
US$4.0 million which was the first credit line to the Nepal Industrial Devel-
opment Corporation.  It covers the implementation of the Credit and the
progress and developments in NIDC operations for the period 1978-1985.
The credit was approved on May 3, 1977, declared effective on
February 28, 1978, and disbursed until September 28, 1984. The undisbursed
amount of US$0.673 million was cancelled. This PCR was prepared by the
Industrial Development and Finance Division of the Projects Department,
South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower's comments have been taken into
account in finalizing the report and are reproduced in Annex 10.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL: NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORA'ION (CREDIT 705-NEP)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                     n.a.
Credit Amount (US$ million)                          4.000
Disbursed                                          3.327
Cancelled                                          0.673
Repaid to IDA 
Outstanding to IDA                                 3.327
Date Physical Components Completed                   n.a.
Proportion Completed by Above Date                   n.a.
Economic Rate of Return                              varied
Financial Performance                                varied
Institutional Performance                            Less than expected
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item
First Mention in Files                               12/05/73
Government's Application                             n.a.
Negotiations                                         03/22/77
Board Approval                                       05/03/77
Loan Agreement Date                                  05/27/77
Effectiveness Date                                   02/28/78
Original Closing Date                                12/31/81
Actual Closing Date                                  12/31/83
Borrower                                             The Kingdom of Nepal
Executing Agency                                     NIDC
Fiscal Year of Borrower                              07/15
Follow-on Project Name                               Industrial Development Project
Credit Number                                      1535-NEP
Amount (US$ million)                               7.5
Credit Agreement Date                             06/10/85



-iii-
MISSION DATA
Number of   Number of   Staff
Timing     Weeks       Persons    Weeks    Report
Identification/Preparation    11/73          2           2          4     12/05/73
Preparation                    12/75         1            1         1     12/17/75
Appraisal                      09/76         4           3         12     04/15/77
Supervision                    06/78         2           3          6     07/25/78
Supervision                    06/79         2           2          4     07/19/79
Supervision                    12/79         1 1/         1         -     01/09/80
Supervision                    07/80         2           2          4     08/20/80
Supervision                    12/80         1 1/         1         -     01/15/81
Supervision                    08/81         2           2          4     10/16/81
Supervision                    01/82         1 1/         1         -     03/05/82
Supervision                    10/82         1 1/        1          -     11/05/82
Preappraisal of IDP            03/83         2           3          6     05/18/83
Supervision                    07/83         1 1/        3          -     08/10/83
Appraisal of IDP               11/83         3            3         9     12/16/83
PCR                            01/85         1            1         1     03/13/85
Supervision of IDP & PCR       03/85         1           1          1     03/29/85
1/  Follow-up visits in conjunction with other missions in the rsgion total of
of about 3 staff weeks).



-iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL: NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (CREDIT 705-NEP)
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Us$'000)
Estimated at
Appraisal                       Actual 1/
Year    Quarter    Per Quarter    Per Quarter    Cumulative    % of Total
PY78     2nd           200
3rd          400                -              _              _
4th           600              40             40             1.00
FY79     1st           600               -             40              1.00
2nd           600               -             40             1.00
3rd          300               60            100             2.50
4th           300             230            330             8.25
FY80     1st           200               -            330              8.25
2nd          200               40            370             9.25
3rd           100               -            370             9.25
4th           100             190            560            14.00
FY81     1st           100                -           560             14.00
2nd           100              30            590            14.75
3rd           100               -            590            14.75
4th           100              50            640            16.00
FY82     1st             -             200            840            21.00
2nd             -             420          1,260            31.50
3rd             -              30          1,290            32.25
4th             -             260          1,550            38.75
PY83     1st             -             430          1,980            49.50
2nd             -             880          2,860            71.50
3rd             -             110          2,970            74.25
4th             -             170          3,140            78.50
FY84     lst             -             100          3,240            81.00
2nd             -              30          3,270            81.75
3rd             -               -          3,270            81.75
4th             -              70          3,340            83.50
FY85     1st             -              1/          3,327            83.50
Total  4,000           3,340          3,327             83.50
1/ Rounded to nearest ten thousand; last disbursement was made on
September 28, 1984, for US$2,270 equivalent.



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL - NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 705-NEP)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Credit 705-NEP was approved in 1977 and was the first Bank
operation in industry through a development finance institution, NIDC.  At
that time, NIDC was the only source of industrial term finance and was ex-
pected, almost solely, to develop and promote industry in Nepal which was and
remains a small sector in the economy. The Credit 705-NEP was granted with
the objectives of: (a) providing NIDC with foreign currency resources to
finance industrial projects in the private sector; and (b) assisting NIDC to
develop into a stronger development finance institution (paras. 1, 2).
The utilizatiin of the Credit was slower than anticipated due main-
ly to the difficult industrial and overall economic environment in Nepal.
This is characterized by the scarcity of natural resources, small domestic
market, limited and inexperienced entrepreneurs, and lack of appropriate pol-
icy framework for industrial investments.  Likewise, insitutional improve-
ments could be achieved only slowly. The major problems encountered included
the long delay and inadequate management of project implementations. On
hindsight, this was due to the vascilating interest and inadequate financial
commitment of project sponsors who lacked experience in industry (para. 13).
As an institution, NIDC suffered from the frequent changes in top management
which resulted in the lack of intensive and continuing operational strategy.
It also affected NIDC's resource and financial planning which contributed to
the slow utilization of the Credit. In general, the objectives of the Credit
705-NEP were substantially met although with some difficulties and over a
longer period than anticipated (para. 26).
Being the first operation for industry through NIDC, the Credit re-
quired close and intensive supervisions by IDA. These helped in achieving
some significant changes in NIDC's policies and operations including improved
financial reporting and planning particularly on its domestic resources,
emphasis on the continuity in top management, intensive project supervision
and arrears management and staff traning (parss. 13-16 34). Experience
under the Credit showed the need to focus on specific subsectors such as
cottage and small industries, export sector, and other key subsectors includ-
ing light engineering and leather. It also highlighted the need to develop
industrial policies and measures which would be more effective in promoting
efficient investments particularly in the private sector. Incorporating
these findings and implementation experience under Credit 705-NEP, an
Industrial Development Project (IDP) was approved in 1984 to: (a) provide
additional foreign currency resources to NIDC and continue to build on the
institutional progtess in NIDC; (b) provide the required technical assistance
in the development and implementation of appropriate incentives for industry
and exports, development components for the leather and light engineering
products and tourism promotion (para. 34).



-1-
NEPAL
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CREDIT 705-NEP
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      Credit 705-NEP for USS4.0 million, was IDA's first credit line to the
Nepal Industrial Development Coorporation (NIDC). The Credit Agreement was
signed on May 27, 1977, and provided for an interest rate from NIDC to HMG of
8.5% p.a. and a composite repayment period with a maximum maturity on subloans
of 15 years including grace period. The original Closing Date of the Credit was
December 15, 1981, which was extended to December 31, 1983; the Credit was
closed on September 28, 1984, with total disbursements of US$3.327 million or
83%. The two primary objectives of the Credit were to help finance economically
viable industrial projects controlled by the private sector including agro-
industries, mining, construction, and hotel projects; and to build a stronger
financial institution through changes in NIDC's organization, reallocation and
expansion of staff, improvements in appraisal standards, increased follow-up
activities and revised policies and strategies.
2.      Background.  The Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) was
established in 1959 under a special Act, to take over the functions of an
Industrial Development Centre which had been established in 1957 under Nepal's
First Five-Year Plan (FY56-FY61). Its main objective is to promote industrial
investment in the private sector by providing financial and technical
assistance. During its initial years of operations, NIDC was also directly
responsible for promotional activities such as development and management of
industrial estates, preparation/dissemination of industrial feasibility reports
and consultancy services. In 1975, primary responsibility of these functions
was transferred to the Industrial Services Centre. For a few years following
the dissolution of the Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDC) in 1972,
NIDC financed cottage and village industries; these are now financed mainly
through the commercial banks. To date, NIDC remains the major source of medium
and long-term financing for small, medium and large private industrial
enterprises.



-2-
3.      NIDC is owned by HMG (5% of the shares held by NRB) which provides most
of its resources. Prior to IDA's Credit, its resources were in equity shares
and a number of small loans from bilateral sources including KfW and USAID. At
the time of appraisal, NIDC had an equity base of Rs 141.9 million or 63% of
total assets (Rs 226.6 million) and an outstanding loan portfolio of Rs 155.8
million.
II. ENVIRONMENT
4.      Credit 707-NEP was implemented during FY78 to FY84.  During this period,
GDP grew at an average of 2.1% in real terms against a population growth of
about 2.7%. Nepal suffered major drought-induced setbacks in FY80 and FY83 with
GDP declining by about 2.3% and 1.4% respectively. Agriculture which accounts
for about 62% of GDP grew at an average of about 2.2%; this was significant
compared to the performance during the previous years (-0.9 average rate for the
Fifth Five-Year Plan, FY76-FY80). 1/ Manufacturing industry grew at abotut 2.3Z
during the Fifth Plan period; it declined by about 3.5% in FY81 due to shortages
in raw materials and power mainly as a consequence of the drought in the pre-
vious year. The manufacturing sector remains small despite its relatively more
rapid growth and constitutes only about 5% of GDP. Most recent census data
indicate that the formal private sector constitutes about 3,600 establishments
employing over 60,000 workers, two-thirds of which are small, employing an
average of less than 10 workers each. HMG continued its emphasis on the
expanded role of the private sector in industries. This led to the promulgation
of the Industrial Enterprises Act and Foreign Investment and Technology Act in
1981. These Acts expanded and improved HMG's Industrial Policy Statement of
1974 and are significant steps towards providing incentives for local and for-
eign private investors as well as for simplified industrial licensing
procedures. However, continuing efforts to promote private sector enterprises
are still required; also, the rules and regulations relating to these Acts need
to be finalized and implemented. Against severe physical, institutional and
economic constraints, Nepal's progress was slow in many sectors with a
deteriorating balance of payments position.
5.      Historically, Nepal's trade deficits were large, but were partly offset
by surpluses from invisibles. The current account deficit which averaged about
4% of GDP from FY79 to FY82, has traditionally been more than matched by inflows
of official grants and concessionary loans, leading to a surplus in the overall
balance of payments.  In FY83, the overall balance shifted to a deficit of about
US$36 million compared to a surplus of about IlS$39 million in FY82, reflecting a
1/ Preliminary results of a census on manufacturing (FY82), which were avail-
able in late 1985, indicate a growth rate of about 10.5% p.a. in manufactur-
ing during the Sixth Plan Period (FY81-FY85).



-3-
sharp decline in agricultural exports and large increases in food related
imports. Official capital inflow continued to increase, but not enough to
offset the huge deficit. Gross international reserves, usually maintained at
relatively high levels in Nepal, declined to the equivalent of about three
months of imports.
6.      Nepal's merchandise exports grew at an average of 3% in nominal terms.
In the early !980's, exports decreased due to market difficulties and as a
proportion of GDP, were only 4.8% in FY82, down from 6.8% in FY76. Leather
exports suffered substantial declines from a high of Rs 198.7 million in FY80 to
as low as Rs 49 million in FY83 which is the lowest level since FY77. The
tourism sector had its share of problems; tourist arrivals stagnated with the
receipts in convertible foreign exchange decreasing to slightly over US$30
million equivalent in FY83 which is almost half of the level in FY81.
7.      Nepal has made several changes in its exchange rate system.  Prior to
1978, an Export Entitlement Scheme was operational which allowed the trading
of foreign exchange entitlements resulting in premiums of about 30-40%. In
March 1978, this scheme was replaced by a dual exchange rate whereby exporters
received Rs 16 for each dollar of export earnings compared to an official rate
of Rs 12: US$1.00. In September 1981, the dual exchange rate system was unified
at Rs 13: US$1.00; in addition, the Nepalese Rupee was pegged to the Indian
Rupee at the fixed rate of NRs 1.45: IRs 1.00. In December 1982, the Nepalese
Rupee was depreciated against the US Dollar by about 8% to NRs 14.00: US$1.00.
In June 1983, the dual peg arrangement was replaced with a trade-weighted basket
peg with the US Dollar as the intervention currency. The current exchange rate
is NRs 18.8: US$1.00.
8.      Nepal's organized financial sector consists of:  two commercial banks;
two specialized financial institutions, one for agriculture and one for
industry; a provident fund corporation; and an insurance company. The two
commercial banks (Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastriya Banijya Bank) dominate the finan-
cial sector, accounting for 75% of total assets and virtually all deposits. In
1984, HMG opened the commercial bapking sector to the private sector; Nabil Bank
which is a joint venture with the Dubai Bank, started operations in June 1984.
Two other private banks are expected to open in FY85 in collaboration with the
Grindlays Bank and the Indo-Suez Bank. These banks are expected to provide more
eff.cient and improved credit facilities for industry including cofinancing
arrangements with NIDC. Commercial banks have been the major source of working
capital for industry while NIDC is the primary source of term credit for fixed
investments, although the commercial banks have responded well under the CSI
Project with increasing term financing for cottage and small industry. The
commercial banks have had a relatively stable base of term deposits and usually
have excess liquidity which could be made available for industrial term lending.
Part of the problem is the rate structure in Nepal which provides minimal, if
not negative marginal spread for the commercial banks in using their own funds
for term lending. IDA has maintained continuing dialogue with HMG/NRB on this
aspect. Steps taken to encourage industrial lending include the amendment of
NIDC's Act to enable cofinancing and joint mortgages with other financial
institutions, exemption from registration fee of collaterals on industrial loans
made by the commercial banks. Recently, NIDC was able to sell some of its
debentures to Nepal Bank as a first major step to diversify its sources of
funds.



-4-
III. PERFORMANCE OF NIDC 1/
Institutional Aspects
9.      Policies and Strategies. With the approval of Credit 705-NEP, NIDC's
Board for the first time, approved formal policy and strategy statements to
guide its operations. These proved to be useful in that prior lending policies
were developed on an ad-hoc basis. This made NIDC vulnerable to some policies
of HMG which in some cases were not financially prudent; for example, fixed
debt/equity ratios for projects by geographic location and fixed time periods
for processing applications were indicated in HMG's Industrial Policy Statement
of 1974. The objectives of these policies were to disperse investment
geographically and to process applications more rapid. However, they tended to
undermine NIDC's autonomy and raise undue expectations from sponsors on the
amount to be lent and timing of approvals irrespective of project requirements
and stage of preparation. Although it took a longer time than expected, NIDC
implemented policy recommendations made during appraisal and supervision of the
Credit. It amended its Act so that it can now provide working capital loans,
guarantee foreign loans of industrial enterprises, execute joint pari-passu
mortgages which facilitate cofinancing arrangements, and manage/have managed
assets taken over under its Act due to non-payment. NIDC also prepared an
annual budget and workplan showing a shift in the focus of its strategy towards
implementation and supervision of its portfolio which is appropriate. As a
collection target and standard, it aims to have a debt service coverage of at
least 1.1 times and its arrears would not exceed its unimpaired equity. Formal
reviews and approval of its policies and strategy statements should be done by
NIDC's Board and Management regularly and at least every three years. It took
about eight years for its original statements to be reviaed which is too long,
coinciding with the requirements of IDA's first and second credits.
10.     Organization and Management.  Comparative organizational charts for NIDC
in FY77 and FY84 are shown in Annex 1. Based on IDA's recommendations under the
Credit, NIDC's organization has evolved into an appropriate structure for a
development finance institution. Initially, the two major changes were the
division of the organization into two groups--one for operations and another for
administration--and the creation of a project implementation and follow-up
divisiun. To supplement ISC's project promotion, NIDC re-established its own
Project Development and Promotion Division. Other organizational changes
included the additions of a Sick Project Branch (a section under a Division) and
a Training Branch.
1/ Section IV of the SAR for an Industrial Development Project in Nepal
(Report No. 4982-NEP, November 12, 1984) discusses NIDC's current
institutional, operational and financial performance, organization, and its
policy and strategy statements.



-5-
11.     One of the concerns especially during the early period of the Credit,
was the frequent changes in management. NIDC has had four general managers
under the Credit with the first two having terms of less than two years. This
improved with the third general manager who had a term of almost three years.
The fourth and present general manager who is also the first appointee from
within the organization, has held the position for over three years; his tenure
is for four years and is likely to be renewed for another term. Another concern
was the inadequate interaction between the Board and senior management. Based
on IDA's recommendation, NIDC amended its Act to allow the general manager to be
a full member in addition to being secretary to the Board. In 1983, NIDC's two
deputy general managers started participating in the board meetings.
Communication between management and senior staff and among division chiefs has
also improved through regular meetings and reporting procedures.
Standards and Procedures
12.     Promotion.  NIDC's pipeline of projects has been increasing through its
own and ISC's development and promotion efforts. However, it still faces the
difficult task of transforming these projects into bankable proposals and main-
taining and reinforcing the entrepreneurs' interest ad capabilities. These were
the main reasons for the slow comcitments and disbursements of Credit 705-NEP.
In addressing this issue, NIDC has devised a reasonable strategy for the medium-
term. It would continue its periodic industrial tours to promote viable
projects and NIDC's financial assistance. It plans to conduct workshops on
project preparation and implementation for prospective entrepreneurs and those
with approved loans. With assistance under the IDP, it would also develop a
"'projects course" for its staff which would eventually be opened to relevant
staff of HMG and selected project sponsors.
13.     Appraisal.  On the recommendation of the Policy Advisor under the
Credit, NIDC adopted the project team approach in its appraisal procedures
(Annex 1). This provided for a better appreciation of the projects as a whole
and for more active interaction among project analysts. This arrangement did
not only improve the quality of appraisal, but also shortered the processing
time. Calculation of financial and economic rates of return was initiated under
the Credit as a standard feature of NIDC's appraisal reports. Although the
problems of many of its sr-bprojects are rooted in the difficult environment and
the inexperience and vacilating commitment of project sponsors, NIDC should
continue to improve on its appraisal standards. It should focus on market
assessment, adequacy of suitable management, realistic implementation
timetables, adequacy of working capital financing, and feedback information from
actual experience.
14.     Implementation/Supervision.  In 1983, NIDC formed a Sick Projects Branch
within its Monitoring and Evaluation Division to address the need for in-depth
analysis and assistance to problem projects and to contain its increasing level
of arrears. The rehabilitation of these projects requires highly qualified and
experienced staff which NIDC still has to develop. Meanwhile, it has con-
centrated on a few projects with the largest arrears and has assigned its own



-6-
staff either as member of the board of directors or as full-time staff on
secondment, usually handling the treasury/finance functions. As much as
possible, NIDC should supplement its own staff by using outside consultants. It
would take some time to develop expertise in handling problem projects and to
have any significant impact on NIDC's arrears and quality of portfolio.
Consequently, NIDC also needs to improve weaknesses in its appraisals and post
appraisal processing. For example, in addition to close monitoring of agreed
timetables, it should implement its policy of withdrawing/cancelling or with-
holding subloan disbursements until it has re-appraised the viability of
projects arising from such delays and cost overruns. This could address
problems early and contain its exposure to problem projects. This stage of the
project may be the most critical in that it reveals the actual needs of the
projects and sponsors who are usually inexperienced or new to industrial
undertakings.
15.     Institutional Assistance Program.  Although there were considerable
improvements in NIDC's standards and procedures under the Credit, NIDC continues
its institution-building efforts by implementing an institutional assistance
program. This involves an initial 24 man-months of technical assistance from
the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) which started
in December 1984. ICICI staff are providing advisory services in the "nuts and
bolts" of development banking; the initial focus is on the standards and proce-
dures of NIDC's project development, appraisal, and supervision. The work would
also include on-the-job training of selected NIDC's staff in the Bombay head-
quarters of ICICI and two months assistance for the preparation of NIDC's finan-
cial statements for the year ending July 1985. The ICICI staff are directly
involved in the review of subprojects. Practical assistance and recommendations
are made on such aspects as types and size of projects for cofinancing, ques-
tionnaires for appraisals and follow-up activities, improvements in loan agree-
ment provisions, compilation of reference data, economic appraisal, formats for
market surveys, procedures and guidelines for insurance coverage. The ICICI
staff also assisted a task force in the follow-up and data gathering on the
subprojects for the PCR on Credit 705-NEP. Monthly reports by the ICICI staff
are available in the ASPID files. IDA is continuing its institutional assis-
tance to NIDC through the Industrial Development Program (IDP).
16.     Financial Planning and Reporting.  Prior to the Credit, NIDC's financial
planning was done through the preparation of an annual workplan and budget.
This was inadequate in that it covered only one year which was to. short for
planning resource requirements. Moreover, it does not contain profitability,
cash-flow, and balance sheet accounts. As a consequence, NIDC's domestic
-asources became a constraint in implementing the subprojects under the Credit
which led to the "informal suspension" of the Credit in FY81 (para. 26). Under
the Credit, NIDC improved its data gathering and frequency of reporting the
results of its operations to its management and IDA. However, IDA's missions
have noted two weaknesses in the reports: inconsistency of the data and long
retrieval period. Some figures contained in its workplan do not tally with data
submitted to IDA and/or its published account; data submitted to IDA on
approvals, disbursements, collections, and arrears often do not reconcile.



-7-
There were also large discrepancies its internal proforma and its audited finan-
cial statements. The long-form audits of its financial statement have been
satisfactory, but completion and submission to IDA have consistently been
delayed well beyond the agreed period, i.e. within five months after the end of
its fiscal year. NIDC should continue to address these weaknesses to improve
its financial analysis and planning. NIDC should also review the recommenda-
tions of the accounting and management information advisor including the
required training and merger of the Accounts Division with the Finance Division
(para. 24).
Operational and Financial Performance
17.     Loan Operations.  Annex 2 shows a comparison of projected and actual
loan operations of NIDC for FY77-FY81. From a base of about Rs 76 million in
FY77, its loan approvals were projected to grow at 15% per year; total approvals
for FY77-FY81 were estimated at Rs 530 million or an average of Rs 106 million
per year. These proved to be optimistic in that total approvals for the same
period amounted to only Rs 321 million or an average of Rs 64 million per year.
Historically, NIDC's approvals showed no discernible annual growth rate since
there is no consistent stream of medium and large projects. However, there
seems to be a slight increase in the average level; the yearly averages for
FY72-FY76 and FY77-FY81 were Rs 55 million and Rs 65 million respectively. For
FY80-FY84, this level increased to Rs 80 million. Approvals in FY83 and FY84
were over Rs 100 million. Actual commitments and disbursements were likewise
much lower than projected. Actual figures shoved that NIDC's commitments and
disbursements although higher in amounts, were lower in relation to total
approvals. This was evident in the utilization of Credit 705-NEP; compared to
appraisal estimates, full commitment took two and half years longer and 83% of
the Credit was disbursed in almost three years after the original Closing Date.
18.     Profitability.  NIDC's gross revenues almost doubled from Rs 15.7 mil-
lion in FY77 to Rs 28.6 million in FY81 (Annex 3). Despite the lower loan
operations, actual profits were satisfactory and close to projected levels.
This was due to higher spreads on its portfolio; NIDC borrowed much less than
projected and increased its equity with the result that its actual interest cost
as a percent of its portfolio, was lower by an average of 1.3%. Administrative
and general expenses were also kept at below Rs 6.0 million equivalent to about
1.5% of total assets which is reasonable. However, its provisions for bad debts
were twice the projected amount which is appropriate and in line with its
increasing arrears position (para. 20). These increased from 1.8Z of loani
portfolio in FY77 to 4.1% in FY81. NIDC continued higher provisions and in
FY84, these were 5% of loan portfolio. This was possible with its higher
profitability due mainly to an increase in interest rate in FY83 to 12% from 11%
which was effective since FY77.
19.     Financial Position.  Annex 4 shows a comparison of NIDC's projected and
actual balance sheet stataments. Its actual financial position reflected a
substantial equity base which was 45% of total resources at the end of FY81
compared to 22% as projected. Because of NIDC's conservative capital structure,
its return on equity was low averaging only 1.3% during FY77-FY81. Given the
riskier business of term ending to industry, NIDC'a structure is appropriate,



-8-
i.e. despite low borrowings, its debt service coverage ratio has been marginal
(below equity in PY79 and FY81) due to rising arrears. NIDC needs to address
its arrears problems directly to achieve comfortable levels of debt service
capacity and should not depend on HMG's equity contributions which could
camouflage the serious operational and financial weaknesses.
20.     Arrears Position.  Annex 5 shows NIDC's arrears at the time of appraisal
and Closing Date of the Credit. Total arrears increased by 5.6 times from Rs 20
million in FY76 to Rs 112.9 million in FY84; as a percent of total portfolio,
artears doubled from 14% to 28.6%. These are cor.:entrated in the hotel/tourism
projects in which NIDC's exposure has been substarfial being the only major
domestic source of term finance. Investments in tourism-related projects,
notably hotels, increased in anticipation of growth in tourist arrivals which
did not materialize. In the early 1980s, tourist arrivals stagnated with a
decreasing proportion of non-Indian tourist. This led to very low hotel
occupancy rates and financial difficulties. Another problem was the excessive
delays and cost overruns of these hotel projects resulting in compounding
amounts of arrears during protracted construction periods (para. 28). To
emphasize improved collection performance, NIDC's strategy and covenants of the
new credit under the IDP, require the achievement of a minimum debt service
coverage ratio of 1.1 times and arrears level not exceeding its equity. IDA has
the right to withhold withdrawal authorization if these criteria are not met and
satisfactory corrective actions are not taken. To a large extent, the informal
suspension of Credit 705-NEP was beneficial in focusing NIDC's and HMG's atten-
tion to take corrective measures to improve NIDC's operations (paras. 9-16).
IV. CREDIT 705-NEP
21.     Objectives.  As stated in Section 3.01 of the Credit Agreement, "the
purpose of the Credit is to assist NIDC in financing such productive facilities
and resources in Nepal as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists in the financing of specific development
projects through loans to and investments in private enterprises in Nepal,
furtherance of the corporate purpose of NIDC." The appraisal report spells out
one primary objective of building NIDC into a stronger financial institution
through changes in NIDC's organization, reallocation and expansion of staff,
improvements in appraisal standards, increased follow-up activities, and revised
policies and strategies. As discussed in the above sections, NIDC has evolved
into a strong financial institution than at the time when Credit 705-NEP was
given. It has adopted more appropriate policies and strategies, suitable
organizational and procedural changes; major improvements were also achieved in
its management reporting systems, financial planning, and audit of its
operations. The institutional improvements in NIDC were probably much more than
expected during the appraisal of the Credit given the particular difficulties in
promoting such changes in a country like Nepal. As required under the Credit,
NIDC appointed two advisors, one to advise the general manager in all opera-
tional and policy matters and one to advise on NIDC's accounting, management
information, resource and business planning systems.



-9-
22.     Technical Assistance.  Mr. Zamir Hasan, on secondment from the World
Bank, was appointed as the policy advisor in February 1978 under UNDP financing.
The accounting/management information advisor grant from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of England. Due to the delay in recruiting a
suitable advisor, ODA's funds became unavailable due to budget constraints and
alternative grant financing had to be secured. Three years after loan approval,
Mr. Sidney Rose was appointed accounting/management information advisor also
under UNDP financing. Mr. Zamir's assignment ended in December 1979 and the
could not overlap with Mr. Rose as planned. Final reports of the advisors are
available in the files.
23.     Policy Advisor.  Recommendations of the policy advisor covered the major
areas of working capital, cofinancing, appraisal and follow-up standards,
organizational and management controls, and financial/resource analysis and
planning. One problem was the initial reluctance of NIDC's board and management
to examine policy issues and reservations to fully involve the advisor in the
discussion and formulation of policy. At that time, inadequate domestic resour-
ces became an issue in NIDC's operations. Despite the weaknesses of NIDC's
information system, this advisor assisted NIDC to analyze and project its
resources requirements which served as the basis for securing firm funding
commitments from HMG/NRB. This led to the lifting of the "informal suspension"
of the Credit (para. 26). The success of this component is demonstrated in
NIDC's more streamlined organization and procedures including management commit-
tees recommended by the advisor and NIDC's new development finance policies and
operational strategy which are satisfactory.
24.     Accounting/Management Information Advisor.  This assignment was
originally planned for two years. However, the initial contact was for one
year, but was extended for another six months. The assignment involved mainly
h2!e setting up of a new ledger system for NIDC's loan accounts and arrears
posIiuon. The merger of the accounts division with the finance division as also
recommended to achieve centralized responsibility for consistent and accurate
information. Other more technical recommendations are contained in a completed
accounting manual. NIDC should still consider adopting the recommended set-up
and manual. However, the constraint has been more on the availability of
qualified accounting staff. Although the advisor provided step by step assis-
tance and training to selected NIDC staff, more is needed to change over fully
and implement the new system successfully. NIDC's staff were too accustomed to
the old system and without proper training and motivation, were very reluctant
to try and adopt new methods. The chartered accountant hired under the credit
for its finance division was a good beginning, but he could not do the whole
job. Consequently, NIDC retained its old system with top management support, it
has recently been submitting progress reports to IDA more regularly. However,
these reports still suffer some data inconsistency and long retrieval periods
(para. 16). With the assistance of the ICICI staff and its external auditor,
NIDC's strategy should be to adopt a medium-term program to update its account-
ing system which incorporates relevant and sustained training for its staff.



-10-
25.     Actual Utilization and Disbursements.  Credit 705-NEP was for US$4.0
million. Total disbursements were US$3.327 million equivalent or 83%. The
Credit had a subloan free-limit of US$80,000 equivalent and a maximum subloan
amount of US$1.0 million. NIDC submitted 28 subprojects to IDA; IDA authorized
28 subloans for a total amount of US$4.190 million of which five were sub-
sequently cancelled. The 23 subloans under the Credit are broken down as
follows.
Amount                  Amount
Number of    Authorized    % of       Disbursed    % of
Sub*oans       (US$'000)    Total    (US$'000)    Total
Above Free Limit          9            3,670         88       2,964         89
Below Free Limit         14              520         12         363         11
Total   23            4,190        100       3,327        100
Nine subloans or 39% were above the free limit ("A" subloans); these accounted
for 89% of the amounts disbursed and were subject to IDA's prior review and
approval. The average subloan disbursed was about US$145,000 compared to a
higher average subloan approval of US$182,000. This was due mainly to three
subprojects under implementation which utilized an average of only 39% of
approved amounts; a large amount of US$0.580 million was cancelled for one of
these projects (Hotel Jaya). However, all but one subproject had subloans of
below US$0.500 million.
26.     Utilization of Credit 705-NEP was slow compared to estimates at
appraisal. Credit effectiveness was delayed by six months to allow the appoint-
ment of the advisors, which was a condition of effectiveness. The original
commitment date was September 30, 1979; by this date only US$1.7 million was
committed and US$0.567 million was disbursed despite an amendment of the Credit
Agreement allowing IDA funds for certain domestic currency expenditures and
simplification of disbursement procedures. Although the commitment date was
extended to March 31, 1981, a review of NIDC's performance and utilization of
the Credit showed serious institutional and financial weaknesses which under-
mined the implementation of Credit. These included ineffective project
promotion, excessive appraisal processing time, inadequate management
information, particularly on arrears, and non-compliance to IDA's auditing
requirements. Overall, management was also adversely affected due to frequent
changes in the NIDC's general manager. Moreover, NIDC did not have enough
domestic resources to ensure efficient implementation of 'ts subprojects, par-
ticularly those financed under Credit 70S-NEP. Consequently, Credit 705-NEP was
"informally" suspended on July 15, 1980; this meant that IDA would not approve
subloans under the Credit after this date until NIDC/HMG had full funding of
NIDC's past commitments and had made satisfactory arrangements for funding
NIDC's future operations. On September 9, 1981, (almost 14 months after), IDA
lifted the "informal suspension" by extending the Credit's commitment date to
March 31, 1982 and Closing Date to December 31, 1983. This decision was based
on the following:



-11-
(a)  HMG/NRB had committed in writing to provide NIDC's estimated
annual requirements of about Rs 40 million through loans or
purchase of NIDC's 15-year bond/debentures which would be tax-
free and guaranteed by HMG;
(b) NIDC had submitted subprojects to IDA requiring subloans of
US$1.9 million which covered the uncommitted balance of the
Credit; it also had a project pipeline requiring about US$1.6
million in subloans;
(c) NIDC had completed its long form audit which was satisfactory and
appointed an accounting and management information advisor;
(d) disbursements under the Credit had doubled; and
(e) NIDC initiated changes in its policy and procedures which would
strengthen collection/supervision activities and improve its
arrears position.
Projects Financed under Credit 705-NEP
27.     Annexes 6 through 9 provide detailed data on subprojects financed under
the Credit. Only one subloan was for an expansion project of a marble process-
ing plant; the remaining 22 subloans were for new projects which is characteris-
tic of NIDC's past operations. This trend is expected to continue since Nepal
is still at the initial stages of developing an industrial base. Two-thirds of
the subprojects were located in rural areas and accounted for over 50% of the
subloans. Due to the need to locate in or around urban areas, six subprojects
were established within the Kathmandu Valley such as a 4-star hotel, automotive
workshop, beer distillery, soft drink bottler, printing and packaging, and a
textile weaving plant. The products of the other subprojects financed under the
Credit were diversified; these included chemicals, metal, marble, noodles,
leather, canned juice/fruits, animal feeds, paper, electrical accessories, stone
aggregates, baked bread, aluminum utensils, milled rice, and rubber footwear.
28.     Annex 6 shows the dates when the subloans were approved by NIDC and
authorized by IDA. The periods between these dates were quite long with an
average of about 12 months. The "A" subprojects had shorter periods averaging
about 8 months compared to almost 15 months for "B" subprojects, in which IDA's
prior review/approval was not required. These delays reflect N4IDC's difficul-
ties particularly with smaller projects whose sponsors are largely new
entrepreneurs with little and no experience in industry. NIDC's experience
indicates that the main reason for the delays were the sponsors' inability to
execute post-approval formalities. Many sponsors were not ready with their
equity contribution which delayed the signing of loan documents. Sponsors often
faced the additional frustration of bureaucratic delays in securing needed
registrations and permits. Some sponsors lost interest in their projects
because of complexities of new industrial ventures and would rather had diverted
funds to other easier and lower risk undertakings. NIDC is addressing this



-12-
issue by requiring and assisting project sponsors to comply with the pre-
established requirements prior to subloan approvals; this should help identify
the more serious sponsors and facilitate implementation. However, NIDC has been
cautious in cancelling approved loans; over 50% of the subloans under the Credit
took 12 months and over (as long as 30 months) from NIDC's approval to IDA's
authorization. NIDC has rarely exercised its option to cancel approved loans
which are not utilized within 3 months from date of an approval letter. Another
reason for the delay was the long period it took for NIDC to respond to IDA's
queries particularly for the initial subprojects in which NIDC had to
expand/improve its appraisal analysis and reports (para. 32).
29.     A comparison of expected and actual dates of project completion is shown
in Annex 7. The delay in actual completion of 20 projects averaged slightly
over eight months. Only three subprojects were on schedule. There were longer
delays in the nine "A"' subprojects than in fourteen "B" subprojects are still
under implementation with current delays of four and seven years. One "B"
subproject is still under implementation and delayed for 18 months. The main
reason for the delayed completion was in the supply of imported machinery.
Because of the small sizes of machinery procurements, NIDC and its sponsors had
difficulties in securing quick and adequate responses to their requests for
quotations. The longer delays occurred in the clearing and transshipment
through the Calcutta Port; many times this resulted in piferages/damage to the
machinery. The delays were prolonged due to conflict and loss of interest among
sponsors as well as changes in project design, which often resulted in larger
equity financing. In one project A-5 (Hotel Jaya), NIDC cancelled its undis-
bursed loan balance under the Credit; the project has resumed construction which
would be financed by equity and loans from the sponsors. NIDC's progress report
showed that subproject A-2 (Karnali Rice Mill) should be cancelled unless a
viable alternative location is found. Subproject B-13 (Jayashree Kapada)
expects to be in operation in 1985 under a new financing plan. As recommended
by IDA's supervision missions, NIDC should provide a more realistic implementa-
tion timetable based on NIDC's actual experience including results of this PCR.
30.     Annex 6 shows a comparison of actual and estimated project costs.
Thirteen completed projects showed an average cost overrun of 30% over appraisal
estimates (ranging from 6% to 63%). Seven projects were completed at below
estimates with savings raging from 2% to 16%. Cost overruns were due mainly to
the delay in implementation which resulted in price increases of local construc-
tion materials and imported equipment. In five projects, additional machinery
and larger buildings were incorporated; cost overrun due to foreign exchange
fluctuation was in only one project. On the other hand, cost savings were due
mainly to less equipment actually installed. The reasons and impact on opera-
tions have not been indicated in NIDC's completion report, which should be
examined in future supervision visits particularly since some of these projects
are in arrears. Cost overruns for three projects under implementation are
expected to exceed 50% of original estimates. NIDC's re-appraisal of these
projects, show marginal profitability on the hotel project in which it is not
increasing its financial exposure; on the rice milling project, NIDC should
consider cancelling its loan unless a viable alternative location is found; on a



-13-
small textiie project, NIDC has approved additional loans to cover overruns
provided the sponsors paid-in their counterpart equity. The above experience
confirms IDA's continuing concerns on NIDC's appraisal weaknesses in project
cost estimates and optimistic timetables.
31.     The operating results and arrears position of the subprojects under the
Credit are summarized in Annex 8. Complete, accurate, updated operating data
are not easily available from NIDC's clients. Many do not keep accounting
records and very few accounts are audited. Income tax returns are available but
cannot be relied on. Based on the best data available to NIDC, six companies
showed profitable operations and ten companies were incurring losses by the end
of 1984; four companies started operations only in 1985 and three are still
under implementation. However, 20 of the 23 companies were in arrears which
amounted to Rs 20.5 or 19% of total arrears. Collection ratio for these
projects was 30% which is low but equal to NIDC's expeience on its total
portfolio. The trend has been improving although slowLy. VIDC expects higher
collections except for A-5 (Hotel Jaya) which would still take some time to
complete, A-7 (Hetauda Leather) due to a prolonged depressed export demand, and
A-2 (Karnali Rice Mill) due to location problems.
32.     The direct employment effect of the projects financed under the Credit,
has been estimated at 1,400 jobs; this meant an actual total cost per job of
about Rs 83,600 (US$4,45P equivalent) which is reasonably low. Three projects
had exports of about Rs 8.0 million (US$0.425 million equivalent). Leather and
canned fruits exports accounted for 57% and 39% of total respectively.
Estimated foreign exchange savings amounted to Rs 33.0 million (US$1.7 million
equivalent). Eighteen projects (90%) operated on only one shift; the brewery
and soft drink projects were on two and three shifts respectively. Under the
Credit, NIDC was to calculate financial rates of return (FRR) for projects
costing Rs 1.0 million and above, and economic rates of return (ERR) for
projects costing Rs 2.5 million and above. Ex-ante FRR ranged from 13% to 36%.
Ex-post FRR calculated for five projects were lower; four projects had satisfac-
tory ex-post FRR ranging from 16% to 28% and one project (marble processing) had
a marginal ex-post FRR of 6% in view of existing labor and claims problems. The
ERR results were generally higher than the FRR; ex-ante ERR ranged from 21% to
48% and ex-post ERR for five projects ranged from 21% to 29%. Unweighted
average ex-post FRR and ex-post ERR were 18% and 25% respectively.
33.     Based on IDA's review of 11 "A" subprojects, some of the weaknesses
noted in NIDC's appraisal reports were:
(a) Demand and Supply Analysis. Because of lack of reliable data in
Nepal, NIDC needed to supplement its analysis with actual surveys
and practical ways of assessing demand such as test/sample
marketing and interviews of actual major consumers.
(b) Procurement Analysis. NIDC's reports often did not contain this
analysis; however, it followed satisfactory procedures through
its Machinery Selection Committee and use of outside consultants
for complex projects.



-14-
(c) Aanagement. Provisions were inadequate in ensuring that suitable
and qualified management and staffing would be available; assess-
ment of financial and technical competence of sponsors needed to
be expanded.
(d) Project Cost/Working Capital. These estimates were usually
optimistic and no firm sourcing of working capital was usually
provided or required under the terms of the loans.
(d) Others. These included the need to ensure availability of raw
materials, queries on compliance with policies like sector
exposure and financing of interest during construction, sugges-
tions on size and staging of projects and on terms and conditions
of subloans as well as marketing and technical agreements
proposed for the subprojects.
NIDC had been receptive to IDA's comments and suggestions; although these meant
more research and some delay, they provided NIDC the opportunity to re-examine
the projects and in some cases, had helped to improve project parameters such as
obtaining appropriate equipment guarantees, cost overrun financing, and
marketing/technical agreements. Through continuous IDA/NIDC dialogue, there was
noticeable improvement in NIDC's appraisal quality, especially in the later
years of Credit 705-NEP. NIDC's appraisal reports are now of good quality,
although there are still areas which should be improved (para. 13).
V. CONCLUSIONS
34.     Credit 705-NEP was the IDA's first credit line to NIDC which at the
time, as the only source of term finance for industry. The US$4.0 million
Credit is small but was expected to meet NIDC's foreign exchange requirements
for two years for small and medium enterprises. However, the Credit's utiliza-
tion was slow due primarily to the difficult environment in which NIDC operates
(para. 12). Improvements in institutional standards and procedures and finan-
cial planning which could be achieved only slowly in Nepal, contributed to
slower utilization than anticipated. This experience has been reflected in the
IDA's new credit operation (IDP) for NIDC which provides for a longer commitment
and disbursement peribd. Significant beginnings were made in the difficult and
long-term task of institution-building. HMG/NfDC have not only recognized the
importance of but have also provided for reasonable continuity in top
management; HMC has even broken its traditional practice by appointing a general
manager from within the organization which is proving to be a correct decision.
Senior management committees are operating and more top managemert officers
attend meetings of the Board of Directors. These encourage and have resulted in
participative decision-making which is a welcomed development particularly in
Nepalese context. NIDC has also focused on staff training by instituting
regular orientation and project analysis courses and through the joint "institu-
tional assistance program" between ICICI and NIDC. The Industrial Development



-15-
Project would continue IDA's support and assistance in evolving institutional
progress in NIDC. Appropriate safeguards have been incorporated to promote
closer monitoring which would help ensure that proper measures are taken in
time. The IDP also emphasizes performance as the basis for continued
involvement.
35.     In comparison to other development financing institution, NIDC has
relied heavily on equity financing from government and/or government-owned
institutions. While equity funds may be an appropriate form to support
industrial financing in Nepal, NIDC should be developing a strategy not only
to expand its sources of borrowings, but also to diversify its shareholdings.
This would require more precise financial planning and discipline on the part
of NIDC; greater pressures of its debt service requirements would promote more
cautious investment programs which must be adopted to contain its worsening
arrears position. At the same time, NIDC would achieve more flexibility in
planning its own operations.
36.     NIDC should now focus on assisting to develop a program to expand and
upgrade the accounting and auditing standards in Nepal. Availability of timely
and accurate financial data is essential for NIDC to improve the quality of its
lending operations and services to its clients. Scholarships could be provided
to its staff for accounting and financial courses. Qualified chartered account-
ants could be hired for regular seminars for NIDC's clients not only to provide
training but also to demonstrate the advantages of maintaining proper accounting
records. The consultants/NIDC staff should make available actual bookkeeping
and auditing services for client groups to minimize individual costs.
37.     NIDC is a stronger institution with suitable policies, more streamlined
organization and procedures, higher standards, and improved staffing policies
and training. In general, the objectives of Credit 705-NEP were met although
with some difficulties and over a longer period than anticipated.



I         S~~~~~~~~~i I
.1''ilI  I i I 'il
I
l~ ~~li
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II         -       I
II    'I
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'II
-1-
L XaUuIy             1
Z JO T               - 91 -
I xauut



17                 ~~~~~~~Annex 1
-17-                      2 of 2
4~~~~~~~~~
*j I  
ll ! II I i
Ij 
II
,Iuj
I  kE i      If
-III   ~11i
'iIWS'
LE1_



NEPAL
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Credit 705-REP
Proiect Completion Report
Projected and Actual Loan Operations
(Rs in Millions)
FY77             FY78              FY79             FY80              FY81            Total.
Approvals          Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.  Actual   Proi.   Actual
Loans           76.3    133.0    90.9      32.9    105.0    46.7    120.0    51.5    138.0   56.9    530.2   321.0
Equity           -         4.0    20.0      2.1     15.0      0.6     15.0     2.0      15.0     -       65.0     8.7
Guarantees       -        2041     -        _         -       3.5      -       -         -       8.0      -       31.6
Total         76.3    157.1   110.9      35.0    120.0    50.8    135.0    53.5    153.0   64.9    595.2   361.3
Commitments
Loans           58.6      53.0    87.3     59.6    101.5    41.6    116.3    45.4    133.6    45.4    497.3   245.0
Equity           -         7.6     5.0      1.7     15.0      0.9     15.0     1.0      15.0     4.1     50.0    15.3
Guarantees       -         9.1     -        8.6       -       5.6      -       1.0       -       0.4      -      24.7
Total         58.6     69.7    92.3      69.9    116.5    48.1    131.3    47.4   148.6    50.9    547.3   285.0
Disbursements
Loans           64.5      53.0    89.3     59.6    107.6    41.7    124.0    24.2    143.0   45.9    528.4   224.4
Equity           8.6       7.6    15.0      1.7     15.0      0.9     15.0     1.7      15.0     0.2     68.6    12.1
Guarantees       -         9.1     -        8.6      -        3.1      -       -        -        0.4      -      21.2
Total         73.1     69.7   104.3      69.9    122.6    45.7    139.0    25.9    158.0    46.5    597.0   257.7
z
(D
x



NEPAL
Nepal Industrial Develostent Corooratiou
Credit 705-NEP
Proiect Completion Revort
Proiected and Actual Income Statements
(Rs in Millions)
FY77              Fs .7   r79                         FY80                YI81
Income                                  Ro;.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actuol
Interest                              13.3      13.5    19.7      18.6      29.5    20.7      41.2    23.2       55.6    25.5
Dividends                              0.7       0.7      1.0       0.4      1.3      0.3       1.6     1.8       1.9     -
Miscellaneous                           0.7      1.S      1.0       2.6      1.3      3.0       1.6     3.0       2.0      3.1
Total Income                        14.7      15.7    21.7      21.6      32.1    24.0      44.4    28.0       59.5    28.6
Expenses
Interest                               3.7       3.7      8.9       6.1     17.1      8.1     26.6      9.7      37.3    10.3
Administrative/General                  3.9      4.4      4.5       5.1       5.2     6.3       6.0     5.7       6.9      5.5   O
(Depreciation)                     (N.A.)    (0.2)  (N.A.)    (0.3)   (N.A.)   (0.4)   (N.A.)   (0.3)   (N.A.)   (0.4)
Provisi4a for Bad Debts                 1.8      0.3      2.4       2.8    _2$9       4.3       3.3     .2        3.7      4.3
Total Expenses                       9.4       8.4    15.8      14.0      25.2    18.7        5.9    18.6      47.9    20.1
Net Income lefore Taxes                   5.3       7.3     5.9       7.6       6.9     5.3       8.5      9.4     11.6      8.5
Income Tax                             3.5       4.4      4.0       S.4      4.6      4.9       5.6     5.4       7.5      6.4
Net Income                                1.8       2.9     1.9       2.2       2.3     0.4       2.9     4.0       4.1      2.1
Ratios (2
Net Income/Average Equity               1.3      1.8      1.3       1.3      1.5      0.2       1.9     2.4       2.8      1.2
Total Income/Average Total Assets    5.7         6.3      6.4       7.3      7.2      7.2       7.8     8.1       8.4      7.8
Adm. Expense/Average Total Assets    1.5         1.5      1.3       1.1      1.2      1.7       1.1     1.6       1.0      1.4
Income from Loans/Average Loan
Portfolio                            7.8       7.9      8.3       9.1      9.2      9.3      9.8      9.2      10.4     9.5
Interest Expense/Average Loan
Portfolio                            2.1       2.2      3.6      2.9       5.1      4.2      6.1      3.8       6.7     3.9
Gross Spread on Loan Portfolio          5.7      5.7      3.7       7.8      4.1      5.1       3.7     5.4       3.7      5.6
Interest Expenses/Average Debt         4.1       4.2      5.5       5.0      6.4      5.3      6.9      6.1       7.3     6.1
Provision for Bad Debts/Average
Loan Portfolio                       1.0        -       1.0      1.4       0.9      1.8      0.8      1.3       0.7     1.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           N.A.       1.79    N.A.       1.09     N.A.    0.90       N.A.    1.17      N.A.    0.94



NEPAL
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Credit 705-NE?
Proiect Completion Report
Projected and Actual Balance Sheet Statements
(Re in Millions)
FY77             FY78              FY79              FY80              FY81
Assets                                  Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual   Proi.   Actual
Cash                                  11.4     16.6      9.3     14.0       5.2     9.4      1.1    17.0       3.7      8.5
aeceivables                           29.6     19.1    36.5      26.1     45.4    33.2      55.7    30.8      66.8    38.1
Subtotal                           41.0      35.7    45.8      40.1     50.6    42.6      56.8    47.8      70.5    46.6
Loans/Advances                       206.7    182.6   287.0    222.7    382.6   252.0    491.6   252.3    615.6   282.4
Less: Provisions                    (5.2)    (3.3)   (7.6)   _(j)   (10.5)  (11.2)   (13.8)   (8.7)   (17.3)  (11.6)
Subtotal                        201.5    179.3   279.4    217.6    372.1   240.8    477.8   243.6    598.3   270.8
Investments                           37.0     45.2    52.0      46.5     67.0    47.2      82.0    48.9      92.0    48.9   1
Net Fixed Assets                       1.7      2.0      1.5      3.8       1.3     3.8       1.1     4.4      0.9      4.9  O
Other Assets                           2.0     11.9      2.0     14.4       2.0     8.7      2.0      7.4      2.0      6.4
Total Assets                       286.0    274.1   383.5    322.4    495.8   343.1    622.5   352.1    766.3   377.6
Liabilities & Equity
Tax Payable                            3.5      5.2      4.0      7.3       4.6     9.2       5.6    11.3      7.5    16.5
Others                                10.5      6.9    10.5       S.8      10.5     8.1     A.5       6.1     10.5      7.8
Subtotal                            14.0     12.1    14.5      13.1     15.1    17.3      16.1    17.4      18.0    24.3
Loan-term Debts                      115.2     98.7   210.5    144.5    320.1   161.3    443.1   166.3    581.1   184.4
Others                                 2.0      -        2.0      -         2.0     -        2.0      -        2.0      -
Equity:
Paid-In                           149.3    157.8   149.3    157.8    149.3   157.8    149.3   157.8    149.3   157.8
Reserves                             5.5      5.5      7.2      7.0      9.3      6.7     12.0    10.6      15.2    11.1
Subtotal                        154.8    163.3   156.5    164.8    158.6   164.5    161.3   168.4    165.2   168.9
Total Liabilities/Equity        286.0    274.1   383.5    322.4    495.8   343.1    622.5   352.1    766.3   377.6
Ratios
Current Ratio                          2.9      2.9     3.2       3.1      3.4      2.5      3.5      2.7      3.9      1.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                     0.7       0.6     1.3       0.9      2.0      1.0      2.7      1.0      3.5      1.1
Provisions/Loans (2)                   2.5      1.8     2.6       2.3      2.7      4.4      2.8      3.4      2.8      4.1



- 21 -
Annex 5
Neoal Industrial Develooment Corioration
CretAt 70S-M
Proiect CogaletioA ReDort
rrears Position
(Rs in Millions)                      At Aonraisal                 At Clgosig  Date
I.  (a) Total Outstanding Loans              143.3                          394.2
(b) Amount of Arrears:
- principal                         14.4                          65.0
- interest                           S.6                          47.9
Total                          20.0                          112.9
(c) S (b . a)                             14.01                         28.61
FY76                              m4
1I.  Sectors                I of Arrears   I of Portfolio   L2fAIr&   S of Portfolio
- Hotels & Tourism         23.0             37.1             53.1             50.2
- Transportation           12.2              1.8              V                0.4
- Manufacturing            41.4             48.7             41.6             45.1
Cement                ( 9.1)           (14.0)            W                1
Food                  ( 8.5)           (28.0)           ( 4.4)           ( 6.7)
Sugar                 ( 1.9)           ( 0.2)           ( 2.2)          ( 2.1)
Textiles              ( 0.7)           ( 0.2)           ( 3.7)          ( 2.1)
Chemicals                -             ( 2.3)           ( 0.4)          ( 0.3)
Wood Products          (9.2)           ( 1.5)           ( 0.7)           ( 4.2)
Miscellaneous         (12.0) jj        ( 2.2) 1/        (30.2) .i       (29.7) 11
- Others                   23.4             12.4              5                4.3
100.0          100.0            100.0            100.0
1/ Includes printing and publishing, brewery, cold storage and ice plants,
rice milling.
V Included in Others.
/ Includes leather industry, beverages, rice milling, cement.



Nepal Industrial Develoment Cornoration
Credit 705-NEP
Proiect Completion Report
Suburoiect Data 1/
Proiect Costs 2/ (go 000)
Approval Dates    Subloan   Disbursement           Appraisal                   Actual
Cateaor,/Counanv                                 NIDC       IDA      Amount        in US$       Local  Poreisn  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
A-1  Nepal Pest cide 6 Chemicals Ltd.           June 77   Feb.78       87,040      72,338.35      531    1,039    1,570     379      980    1,359
A-2  Karnali Rice Mill                          June 77   Mar.78       94,720      23,605.04   (1,156)  (1,156)  (2,302)    Under Isplementation
A-3   Bial Iron Steel (P) Ltd.                  July 78   Dec.78      247,583     153,083.52      926   3,282    4,208    1,089    2,563    3.652
A-4  Godavari Marble Industries Ltd.            Nov. 78   Jan.79      272,728     274,565.87    1,875    4,178    6.053   3,392    6,489    9,881
N-5  Hotel Jaya International (P) Ltd.          July 78   Feb.79   1,000,000     420,066.91  (19,838) (11,423) (31,261)    Under lIplmentation
A-6  Gandaki Noodles Ltd.                       June 80   Sep.80      210,774     210,621.41      989   2,783    3,772    1,003    3,103    4.106
A-7  Hetauda Leather Industries Ltd.            NoV. 80   Mar.82      397,480     429,978.12    9,365   19,073   28,438    7,368   22,741   30.109
A-$  Uimalayan Orewery Ltd.                     Oct. 80    Mar.82   1,000,000   1,057,866.85    5,281   16,004   21,285    3,992   23,661   27,653
A-9  Nepal Beverage 6 food Products (P) Ltd.   Mar. 82   may 82    360,000        321,241.01    6,140    7,530   13,670    4,557   13,626   18,183
A-10 Nepal Bioextruders Ind.                                Canc.       Cane.  _     _0.00         0        0        0        0        0        O
A TOTAL  XJ                                                   3,670,325   2,963,367.08   25,107   53,889   78,996   21,780   73,163   94,943
B-1   Binayak Textile (P) Ltd.                  May  79   Jul.80       31,000      30,086.83     252      458      710      262      641      903  s
8-2  Chitwan Feed Industries (P) Ltd.           Dec. 78   Jul.80       69,583      50,051.01     472      835   1,307       409      873    1,282  ">
8-3  Cbitwan Paper lag (P) Lt4.                 June 79   Jul.80       20,000      12,744.29     134      228      362      254      282      536
}-4   Pritting & Pctkage (F) Ltd.               Dec. 78   Jul.80       20,833     24,102.03      139      250      389      220      326      596
I-5   Narayangadb Automobile (P) Ltd.           may  80   Jul.80       33,000     20,282.02      224      376      600      164      345      509
B-6   Shastika Kstha                                       Canc.        Cance.         0.00
B-7  DUa Colour Lab                                        Canc.        Cacn.          0.00
B-8  Colorma                                               Cane.        Canc.          0.00
B-9  Lambini Vidut Udyog (P) Ltd.               July 80   Sep.81       78,000     63,621.13      699    1,107    1,806      409    1,128    1.537
B-10  Bottlers Nepal Ltd.                       July 80   Sep.81       25,530      24,829.00    1.197    5,843    7,040    1.940    7,835    9,775
B-11 Nahendra Agro Ind.                                    Cauc.        Canc.          0.00
5-12  Perta Roda Dbungs (P) Ltd.                Feb. 80   Sep.81       18,350      17,073.92     100      254      354      111      226      337
}-13  Jai .4ree Kapada (P) Ltd.                 Nov. 80    Sep.81      36,000      3,;14.50      252      420      672     Under Implementation
}-14  Shrectha Bakery (P) Ltd.                  Feb. 80   Sep.81       28,000      2,465.50      406      131      537      450      150      600
B-15  shaavir Alminiun (P) Ltd.                 July 79    Feb.82      55,572     44,101.47      635      475   1,110       505      869    1,374
B-16 Narqyan Industries (P) Ltd.                Fib. 83   Feb.84       40,540     31,075.40      462      602    1,064      420      866    1,286
B-17  Sharp Abrassive (P)                       Aug. 83    Feb.84      33,445     22,621.83      317      558      875      246      485      731
1-18  Dibaya Autemotible (P) Ltd.               Feb. 83    Feb.84      30.067     16.458.55      433      364      797      574      404      978
a TOTAL J                                                       5199220    363.22?.U   5.4t0   11.4I  1  16.951   6.014   1.430   20.444
A + b TOTAL                                                   4,190,245   3,326,594.56   30,577  65,370   95,947   27,794   87,593  115,387
|  As of January 1985.        E lxcludes working capital costs.    2/ net   projects under iapleamtation
D



Nepal Industrial Develonment Corporation
Credit 705-NIP
Proiect Comnletion ReiOrt
Suburoiect Data
Coimpleted        Delay in
Catezorvl Comanav                                  Product          Location       Ptoiects        rxv. vs. Act,        Months
A-1   Nepal Pest cide & Cbemicals Ltd.             Chemicals        Lumbini           Nev        June  78/June 78          12
A-2.  Karnali Rice Mill                            Rice             Karnali           Nev        July  78    -
A-3   Rixal Iron Steel (P) Ltd.                    metal            Narayani          Rev        Dec.  s0oJan. 81           1
A-4   Godavari Marble Industries Ltd.              Marble           Bagsmati       Expansion     Dec.  79/Nov. 81          23
A-5   Hotel Jay& International (P) Ltd.            Hotel            Ba8mati           New        may   Si/   -
A-6   Gandaki Noodles Ltd.                         Noodles          Gandaki           Nev        Nay   79/Jan. 81          20
A-?   Retauda Leather Industries Ltd.              Leather          Narayani          New        Apr.  81/Jan. 82          10
A-8   Himalayan Brewery Ltd.                       Beer             Bagmati           New        Nov. 82/Feb. 83            3  i
A-9   Nepal Beverage & Food Products (P) Ltd.    Juice/jam          Kosi              New        Apr.  83/Kay  83           1
B-I   Binayak Textile (P) Ltd.                     Textile          Bagaati           New        July  80/Jan. 81          6
B-2   Chitwan Feed Industries (P) Ltd.             Anim.Feed        warayani          New        Sept. 81/Jan. 83         24
B-3   Chitwan Paper Bag (P) Ltd.                   Wrap Paper       Narayaei          Nev        Mar.  81/Sept.82         18
B-4   Printing & Package (P) Ltd.                  Wrap Paper       Bagmati           New        Dec.  80/Mar. 81          3
B-5   Narayangadh Autoobile (P) Ltd.               Workshop         Rarayani          Nev        Oct.  8llOct. 81          -
B-9   Lumbini Vidut Udyog (P) Ltd.                 Electric         Lumbini           New        Oct.  82/Apr. 83          6
B-10  Bottlers Nepal Ltd.                          Softdrink        Bagmati           Nev        Apr.  79/Oct. 79          6
3-11  Kahendra Agro Ind.
B-12  Perna Roda Dhunga (P) Ltd.                   Stones           Bagmati           Nev        May   83/July 83          2
B-13  Jai Shree Kapada (P) Ltd.                    Textile          Bagmati           New        June  83/   -
B-14  Shrestha Bakery (P) Ltd.                     Bakery           Seti              Nev        Oct. 82/Apr. 84          18
B-15  Kahavir Aluminium (P) Ltd.                   Utensils         Narayani          New        Jan.  82/Apr. 82          3
B-16  Narayan Industries (P) Ltd.                  Slippers         Lumbini           Nev        May   84/Apr. 84          -
B-17  Sharp Abrassive (P)                          Sand Paper       Lunbini           New        Oct.  83/Apr. 84          6
B-18  Dibaya Automotible (P) Ltd.                  Workshop         Bagmati           New        Apr. 84/Apr. 84           -



faa In Sdetrial fletwelomm Cornoratioo
Credit 705-llS
Proiect Cmletion Report
Sbgroiect ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ zCRVI D2n toA
(Na. in OOO0)
Principal Interest Otber
due till   due till  dw  till  Total   Celb  Necbed.le  Interest
It.  Ius" of nei                                  1982      iii       amS    k1z-l8S   1k5k8I   1-1"5    Be            aS       go Re     cie-lired ,aiasiai  ltereat  Othwu    9tol
A-1   Nepal Post cide & Cb_icele Ltd.             Lo"       Lose     Lo"e         430       329        101      860      214     Sil           67            430         48       101     579   1
8-2   Ketali liee Mill                             under implmestation            211        98         14      323      Bil     Nil           48            211         50        14     275   s
A-3   Riul Ireo  Steel (P) Ltd.                    303      Profit   Profit
8-4   Codavari Marble Industrie  Ltd.             (319)      (76)     (173)       319       551          3      873      ail     nil          404            319        147         3     469
&-S   Notel "as Ioterotio_el (P) Ltd.              Nader implementation          3994      IS78        675     6247      Nil     Nil          Nil           3994       1578       675    6247
A-6  CGadeki Noodle Ltd.                            -        278       50e        Nil       533        nil      533       27     Nil          347            sil        159       Sil     159
A-7   Netsuda Leather indutrie  Ltd.             (2050)   (6741)    (5224)       2561      3946        476     6983      Nil     Nil          504           2561       3442       476    6479
84   Nialayen Brewery Ltd.                          -      (3985)     1455       2808      5251        246     8305    4473      Nil         1160            199       2305       168    2672
&-9   Nepl  werepe 4 food Products (I) Ltd.         -      (20f9)    (2663)       659       717          6     13S2      Nil     Sil          239            659        478         6    1143
1-1  Sieeok Txstile (P) Ltd.                      (61)    (243)      (200)       206       204         27      437     Nil      Nil          41             206        163       27      396
I-2   Cbitwan Feed Induetrie. (I) Ltd.            (126)      t..    Ptrofit       243        92          5      340     Nil      Nil          41             243         51        5      299
9-3   Cbitua Paper a  (P) Ltd. I/                   -        -          -          76        63          1      140     Nil      Nil            6             76         57         1     134
-    Printing 6 Package (t) Ltd.                  (116)      (55)       75         3?        49        Sil       86       14     Nil          24              37          4      Nil       41 U
a-s   Nr ayadb Automobile (P) Ltd.                (144)    (143)      (119)       157       175         22      354      Nil     Nil           36            157        139       22      318
8-9   L_bii Vidutdy   (P) Ltd.                      -       N.8.    lose          283       138         17      436     Nil      Nil            7            283        131       17      431
3-10  Bottler  Nepal Ltd.                          302     1431       3585       Nil        378        sil      378     162      Nil         204             Nil         12      Nil       12 V,
W-12  Peru RodamOaa (t) Ltd.                        14        30       (31)        68        71          6      145     Nil      Nil           17             68         54        6      128
3-13  Jai S2re  gaped  (P) Ltd.                    Under iuplmentetioa             89        33         12      134     Nil      Nil            7             89         26       12      127
B-14  Sbreetba bekqy (P) Ltd.                       -         -        (I0)       Nil        66       Nil        66     Nil      Nil          38             nil         28      Nit       26
3-15  leblir Al_mindu  (P) Ltd.                    (66)    (137)       (36)       107       272        Nil      379       56     Nil           43            107        173      Nil      28
3-16  Narayen Iadustries (P) Ltd. 1                 -         -         -         124        76          2      200     Nil      nil          36             124         38        2      164
-I? SI harp Abreesive (P) I/                        -        -          -          31                  Nil       72       2      Nil           17             31         22      Nil       53
3-18  bibeya Astmotible  (t) ltd.                                                 N -  -  -  Nil  95     1       96     Nil      Nil           30            Nil         65        1       66
.I Operationw beginsing 1985 only.
; Paid after Janary 1. 1985
Ibte: Los Profit:  No figures available; bceed oo SloC'e a*essment dwring  ubproject visit.                                                                                                      X
04



aemol Indatrial D elo_mt Cormit ion
protect Ceometio, 3mzt
(U. '000)
anplopuot                              Oet Idreiga  tlbasg                                   pilacial Bate        k.eoamic "te
Contribation         Croeo Ruport           SadlRa               C pocity                       of Retn              of t
go.   Nlme of Ctamau                              Proiact     Astjog    pject       Actual Proct          Act         l oilistion 8    hifta     BRato   m-ot   ftk             kU Lt
as.        Re.       Re.          Re.         (I)
A-1   Nepal pesticide & Chicls Ltd.                   64        50         -           -         -            -
A-2   Karnali Rice Kill                               68       NA.         -           -         -            -           -             tbdr
islomeutstion
A-3   Nial Iron Steel (P) Ltd.                       13        25         -           -         -            -          100           Single       -
A-4   Codavari NArble Industries Ltd.                240       476          -          -         -            -           -            Single       16         6        U         30
A-5   lotel jays lntozzatioeal (v) Ltd.              120        -          -           -       15475          -           -              -          13        -         25        -
A-6   Geadaki Noodles                                 30        52          -         339       4100        7100          70           sigl*        23        22        22        21
A-7   Neteuda Leather ludnatrie. Ltd.                195       110        21647      4488       15667       3275          30           Simle        17        -         -         -
A-$   lnalayan Brewery Ltd.                           75       110          Nil       Nil        -         19619         150       Single/Double   20         16        21        22  1
A-9   Nepal Beverage 6 Food Productc (P) Ltd.         96        40       30056       3105      20185         905          22           Single       34        18        46        23
B-1   Siayek Textile (r) Ltd.                         24        15         Nil        Nil        sil         Nil          20           Single       -         -         -         -
0-2   Chitwn Weed Industries (P) Ltd.                 24        15          Nil       Nil        Nil         Sil          75           Single       -         -        -          -
3-3   Cbitwan Paper sag (P) Ltd.                      13         6                                            -           -            Single       -         -        -          -
3-4   Printing * Package (P) Ltd.                     13        18         -          -          -           550          60          single        -         -        -          -
N-S   Narayengedb Autuobile (P) Ltd.                  29        11          Nil       Nil        Nil         sil          75           Single       -         -        -          -
3-9   Lombi&n   idut Odyog (p) Ltd.                   37        21         -          -          -            -           65          Single        -         -        -          -
3-10  Bottler* Nepal Ltd.                             66       187         -          -          -            -          300          Triple        361       28       -          29
3-12  ftrna Roda Ubtg  (r) Ltd.                      110       100                                                                    Single        -         -        -          -
3-13  Jai Sbere KtePdo (F) Ltd.                       25       N.A.        -          -          -            -           -        iplntation   -             -
3-14  Sbre.tb  Bakery (P) Ltd.                        18        12         -          -          -           721          50          Single        -         -
5-15  Nehbvir Alminim  (P) Ltd.                       40        37         Nil        Nil       1536         sil          66          Single        25        -        -
o-16  Narsay  Industries (P) Ltd.                     27        23         -          -          580         530          43          Single        -         -
3-17  Sharp Abrccive (P)                              11        13                    -          351          69          96          Single        -         -
I-18  DiKbya  utamotible (P) ltd.                      9        19         -          -          -            -          100          Single        -         -
'
%O



- 26 -                    Annex 10
COMETS FROM THE BORROWER          Page 1 of 6
Gram wINDUSTRiES
His Majesty's Govt. of Nepal.       Pb   f 1519
,,                        MMintry of idisttry               Poe38s
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES
it                    (                   )
Tripureswot
Kathmadu, Nepal
Rd. No                                                Date Junuary 2fth.1996
Para. Reference
in PCR
ueor Mr. Wtatembes
I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of letter dated
December 18, in respect of Project Completion Report on Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation. I wish to congratulate you for
preparing the Project Report, whioh reviews successFully various
aotivities of NIOC in respect of the execution of the Credit No.705
NEP. While the informations provided in the draft are basicallly
sound and the report analytical, I wish to make the following
observations for your consideration:
1)  Part I and II of the Report deals with tto background of the
Nepalese economy. Various indicators mentioned in these parts
are bsiceally the figures which have bean taken so far 8e
reflecting the economic position of the country. But the lost
consus taken by the Central Bureau of Stetietics (Ceonsu of
Manufaogring 1981/1982J hAs shown more respectable performance
of the manufacturing sector In ter" of domestic value added
and the rate of growth. Similprly it has been ti estimated
that average annual growth of porduction in the manufacturing
Footnote in   sector has been 10.5 per cent during the Sixth Plan period.
Para. 4    Although some more time many be requi-ed before these figures
be taken as an indicator of the past performance and basis for
future growth, in order to maintain a proper balance in the
Report, mention may bemade of these findings ns well. you may
be aware that the Nepal Industry Study Project undertaken by
the Asian Development Bank and released some months back in the
draft form has also made a reference to the findings of the
Central Bureeu of Statistics.



-27-                       Auinex 10
Page 2 of 6
Gram ;INDUSTRIES
His Majesty's Govt. of Nepal.        P     1383
Miistry of ldust                  Phone  13880
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES
~~~~(                                      )
Tripuroswot
Kathmandu, Npeal
Ref. No                                                Date January ebtht 1SBB
2 Page
ZJ  The Commercial banks of Nepal have been dormant in respect of
handling industrial credit. But the opening of Nepal Arab Bank,
undertaking the commereil bank pctivity by the Agricultural
Oevelopment Bank and the Government's instruction for Commercial
Banks for diverting a portion of their deposit in the priority
sector have help emerged these in3titutions as viable comp.titors
of Nepal Industrial Development Corporation. These Banks enjoy
the benefit of huge deoooit end al90 the liberty of not following
Para. 8   the time cons%Zming project mopraisal procedure. As a result  of
this situation, it had already bean evident todards thel,st year
of the operation of IDA credit, that a growing number of industia-
lists Cwho could show past performance and/or give mortg-4ge for
loan) were approaching commercial banks even for fixed Investment.
With tnis coming of tie two more commetrcial banks in Nepal (a
--eference of which has already been made in the report)NIOC may
find itself in a more disadvantageous position vis-a-vis other
financial institutions, unless NIflC's management and procedures
are further streamlined. This development of commernial banks,
which appreciable in itself, is a challenge for the further orowth
of NIUC as an important term lnnding institution. The trend may
havetobe mentioned in the report.
3)  The supoly of funds has always raminted a constraint with NIJC.It
has also been an important riason for t-ie " informal susoension "
of credit in FY 1981. The amount of money generated from the
floating of shqores in mid 199'i has been en indictor of the amount
Paras. 8, 26 of money that could be generated through thi3 source. The supply
of fund hgd been a congtraint  to NID]  for its better oerFormance
during the period oF first IDA credit and is likely tobe even a
more serious constraint during the second phase unless a credit
arrangement could be worked-out with the commercial banks at a



-28 -                      Annex 10
Page 3 of 6
Oram ;INDUSTRiES
His Majesty's Govt. of Nepal.              ISlSi
Minstry of liidustq               Phons  13838
t. 13880
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES
Tlripureswot
K Kathmandu, Nepal
Rd. No                                                 Date
3 page
realistic rate oF inF-rest. This issue may have tobe prosentqd
even in a more straight forward manner in the Report.
All other inFormations included in the draFt RHport are useful
and pertinent . I wish to thank you again for giving me an opportukiity
to make comment on the document.
Sincerely yours,
( R.S.8hattarai 3
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Oirector
Operation & Evaluation Oepartment
The World Bank
1819 H Street N.W.
.Oshington OC 20433
USA.



- 29 -                     Annex 10
Pa g-e4 o fr.a.PIaO 64t
I cl#lw a -:. 4ID(" Kathmandu.                             C.A4,t- PE.1 SON 4tb"
Phb4m  No:. 11241. I14W. 1.htl, 1464$ & 1644.
!elet - 2569 up
NEPAl INDUSTBIAl DEKA P           CORPORAI!ON
ttl orputa;.d Lade. Niepal IS t4%AUpp1jpow.;io. Ait I8 lb 
r.\   1  1) C  ltliudinS
.d                   .                     6o..  ,      ,o,.,8,00't) Daie ...15,th. J.  1986.
Mr. Yukinorl Watanabe#
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N. V.,
Washington, D. C. 20433,
U. s. A.
Dear Mr. Watanabe,
Para. Reference
in PCR
This Is in referenoe to your letter dated December 18, 1985.
Your Project completion report on NIDO (or. 705-N8P) Is balanced,
correct and precise. Basicallyt we do not have &ifferences In
your findingso We do understand that your reporting covers NIDC'8
performances during the cerdit period. However, in some oases
Paras. 12-15  oertain ourrent references a" also being made, In this case we
would appreciate if some more facts be incorporated in the report,
particularly in the UIDC efforts to strengthen institution and
to improve operational prooedures. These facts could be available
from the visit reports of bank personnel. In partioular, projeot
appraisal reports tries to inoorporate basic parameters of analysis,
fundamental constrains are still hanging, though. Similarly, in
the implementation side, there are more close supervisions of the
projects and attempts have been made to establish frequent oontaots
vith the promoters in terms of solving any problems raised during
construction period. This will be collaborated fromi the facts that
the gap between approval and construction has been minimised.
.2



Tr!looani :-  NI1C " Katiitnaiv!u.- 30 -                     Annex 10
Phloijse..  11'41, 1150, 1360  (,O,     1646                 Page 5 of 6
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Incorporated Under Nepal Industral Development C'rporation Act 2016 )
N. 1. D. C. Building,
P. 0. Box No. 10,
Durbar Marg,
;uthmtndu, Nepal.
Ref No ..........                                              Date.
_      2
Disburseaent prooedures also have boeen reviewed in the
impl9mentation committee aeetings and timely corrections
are being made. Similarly, as regards to oollections,
it has still been a difficult task and oontinious efforts
are being made to improve the situation, and as you kow
environment plays importetnt role in this task.
Your ooment on reporting delays, information inoonsistanoy
1'ara. 1h     and oonstruction delays of the sub-projects are true but
they are to be viewed from the existing problems and
environmental faotors. In other words, we hope that IDA vill
take more realistic view in this area.
NIDO is atill passing through critical moments of resource
Paras. 8, 1f-,2_ matching and project identification. Reoently, attempts are
being made to mobilise domestic resources through public calls
and inter-institution arrangements. However, resouroe mobilisation
will be a problem to NIDC in the near future. NIDC expects
help from IDA to analyse the problem faoed by it and suggest a
practioal solution in this -.spect.
*-. 3



- 31 -                     Annex 10
Telegram :- "NIDC " Kathmandu.                                       Page 6 of 6
Phons No.:- 11241, 11560. 13560, 15645 & 15646
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT (01PDRAT1ON
(Incorporated Under Nepal Industrtia Devolopment Corporation Act 2016 )
N. 1. D. C. Building,
P. 0. Box No. 10,
Durbar Marg,
Kathmandu, Nepal.
Ref. No    ..........                                                  Date
3 
Last but not least, we incerely request IDA to understand
our probles and take appropriate measures in the iapleaetation
of the seoond credit.
Thanking you onc  again and Happy Nvw Yer.
Sinoeely Yours
c. a.                                               General Xsanaer.
Ministry of Finance,
Departaent of Industries.



