Report No. 1398a-NEP                                                      RLE  COPY
Appraisal of the Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation Nepal
April 15, 1977
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs             =    Nepalese Rupees
US$1                Rs 12.50
Rs 1           =    US$0.08
Rs 1 million   =    US$80,000
Rs 1 billion   =    US$80.0 million
ABBREVIATIONS
AGDB     =      Agricultural Development Bank
CID      =      Cottage Industries Department
HMG      =      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ISC      =      Industrial Services Center
KfW      =      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NIDC     =      Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
SIDC     =      Small Industries Development Corporation
USAID    =      United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
HMG and NIDC      July 16 - July 15



FOK OFFICIAL USE UJNLY
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........                   ......i.
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..............................................                 1
II.    ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT  ...............          .. .................
III.    INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR .......                  ................     2
Origin of Industrialization   ..........................                     2
The Structure of Industry  .............................                     3
Types of Industry  ......         .................. .                       3
Location of Industry ......            ............................          4
Constraints on Industrialization ...................          ...            5
Industrial Planning  ..............        .....................             5
Industrial Policy .....................................                      6
Industrial Coordination .....             ........................ .         7
Licensing Procedures  ......            ..........................           7
Industrial Finance ....................................                      8
Interest Rates          ....................................... .            9
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS  ................               .................     10
Share Capital and Ownership  ......             .....................       10
The Institution  .......................................                    10
Organization            ..........................................          12
V.    POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  .............          ..     ................     13
Operating Policies ....................................                     13
Relationship with Government and Business Community  ...                    16
VI.    OPERATIONS              ........................................            17
Summary of Operations  .......            ..........................        17
Characteristics of Loans  ......             ........................       17
Guarantee Operations  .......            ...........................        18
Equity Investments               ....................................       18
NIDC Terms of Assistance  .....    .            ..........................  19
This report was prepared by Messrs. A Wateler and E. Nassim following
their visit to Nepal in September 1976.
TPA document has a restricted diebution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
O(dMf official duties. Its contsnu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Industrial  Districts   ..................................                                                                                      20
Small-scale  Industry  ..................................                                                                                        20
VII.             RESOURCES  ..............................................                                                                                          21
NIDC  Funding   ...........................................                                                                                        21
VIII.              FINANCIAL POSITION AND  PERFORMANCE  .....................                                                                                          23
Profitability   .......                                ..............                           .....................                              23
Financial  Position    ......                                            ...................... ........                                           23
Quality  of  Portfolio  ................                                                   ..             .................                        24
IX.           PROSPECTS   ..............................................                                                                                          25
General  Outlook                                  ....................                             ....................                            25
Resource  Requirements  ...............                                                    ..             .................                        26
NIDC  Pipeline   .......                               ..............                           .....................                              26
Financial  Projections   ...............                                                   ..             .................                        28
X.    OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT ... ......    29
Objectives  of  Credit  ...............                                                  ..             ..................                         29
Lending  Scheme  ......                                ..............                           .....................                              29
Main  Terms   .......                          ...............                             .......................                                 29
XI.           RECOMMENDATIONS  ........................................                                                                                           30



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ANNEXES
1.   Industrial performance FY73-76
2.   Village and cottage industries
3.   The tourism sector
Attachment 1 - Number of visitors arriving in Nepal
Attachment 2 - Tourist arrivals by main nationalities
Attachment 3 - Gross foreign exchange earnings for tourism
Attachment 4 - Present and future hotel capacity in the
Kathmandu Valley
Attachment 5 - Monthly bed occupancy rates for hotels in
the Kathmandu Valley
Attachment 6 - Present and future hotel capacity outside the
Kathmandu Valley
Attachment 7 - Visitor arrivals by purpose of visit
4.   Summary of the 1974 Industrial Policy Statement
5.   The Industrial Services Centre
Attachment 1 - Board of Directors
Attachment 2 - Organization of Industrial Services Centre
6.   Composition of Licensing Board
7.   Applications and licenses issued and breakdown by type of Industry
8.   Source of funds for industry
9.   Commercial banks deposit rates
10.   Commercial banks loan rates
11.   Commercial banks' balance sheets
12.   NIDC's Board of Directors
13.   NIDC's composition of staff
14.   NIDC's organization structure
15.   NIDC's Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
16.   NIDC's loan requests and approvals for 1973-1976
17.   Time and cost overruns for projects completed during 1976
18.   Procurement of imported plant and machinery by source and
amount
19.   NIDC's follow-up visits for 1975 and 1976
20.   Summary of operations 1971-1976
21.   Industry-wise distribution of loans outstanding 1971-1976
22.   Analysis of loan approval by size, maturity, nature of projects
and geographical spread 1970-1976
23.   Equity portfolio as of July 15, 1976
24.   NIDC's main terms and conditions
25.   Resource statement as of July l5, 1976
26.   Details on foreign borrowing up to July 15, 1976
27.   Income statements 1971-1976
28.   Comparative operational ratios 1972-1976
29.   Balance sheets 1971-1976
30.   Trends in arrears 1973-1976
31.   Arrears by region and industry
32.   NDIC's proposed strategy paper 1977-1979



- 2 -
33.  'Forecast of approvals, commitments and disbursements 1977-1981
34.   NIDC new project pipeline for 1977-1979
35.   'Projected income statement 1977-1981
36.   Comparative operational ratios 1977-1981
37.   Projected cash flow statement 1977-1981
38.   Projected balance sheet 1977-1981
39.  ]Estimated disbursement schedule
MAP
IBRD -- 11462



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i) The Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) is the main
source of long-term finance to the private industrial sector in Nepal. NIDC
was established in 1959 as a fully government-owned financial institution
responsible for the promotion and financing of private industry including
tourism. In the past, NIDC has received a number of small loans from bilat-
eral sources which have been almost fully utilized. This report recommends
a $4 million IDA credit to NIDC.
(ii) Nepal's economic growth has been slow over the past decade with
an average real rate of growth of about 2%. During the same period, pop-
ulation increased by just over 2%, therefore GDP per capita (about $100)
did not increase. The slow growth was partly due to the priority given
to development of infrastructure over productive sectors. Nepal is now
attempting to shift its priorities and to focus on the productive sectors
for which about 50% of development expenditures for 1975-1980 are planned.
(iii) Nepal's balance of payments position had been favorable until the
end of FY74 as the trade deficit had been more than offset by remittances
and pensions, interest on external reserves and tourism. However, in 1975,
because of the increase in overseas imports, especially commodities that could
not be supplied by India because of shortages, and a concurrent increase in
the outflow of private capital, the balance of payments deteriorated. This
in turn helped cause the Government (HMG) to devalue the Nepalese Rupee
against the US dollar from Rs 10.56 to Rs 12.50 in October 1975.
(iv) Although the modern manufacturing sector has been growing rapidly,
(7-8% in real terms) it still accounted for only about 4% of GDP in 1975. Most
industries were established or expanded after 1955, when HMG's policy became
more specific with the adoption of five year plans and the issue of indus-
trial policy statements. A number of basic factors have hampered Nepal's
industrialization: (1) the small size of the geographically dispersed mar-
ket, with only 5% of the population living in urban areas; (2) Nepal's
land-locked position which leads to high cost of industrial raw materials and
equipment as well as distribution of manufactured goods; (3) the shortage of
entrepreneurial and managerial talents; and (4) limited exploitable natural
resources. In this environment it is understandable that entrepreneurs
have been giving preference to easy, low risk commercial activities such
as trade, construction, and land holdings.
(v) HMG has made strong efforts in recent years to make industrial
investments more attractive and has granted a number of tax and other conces-
sions. As a result of the various incentives, industrial investment has in-
creased significantly. This is evident from NIDC's strongly improved disburse-
ments over the past two years, which equaled all disbursements prior to FY74.



- ii -
Most disbursements were for projects approved prior to the April 1975 interest
rate increase. While in the sixties, HMG was sometimes forced to take up in-
dustrial projects which were originally reserved for the private sector, this
has changed recently. HMG's attitude towards the private sector remains very
positive and as of July 1976, it expanded the number of industries in which the
private sector may have a majority interest.
(vi)  HMG has allocated approximately 18% of its total planned develop-
ment expenditure for 1975-1980 to the industrial sector (including power).
HMG has defined its industrial objectives as follows: (1) the encouragement
of import-substitution industries for certain essential goods such as sugar,
textiles, paper, cement, etc.; (2) the modernization, balancing and expan-
tion of export industries based on local raw materials such as jute and tea;
(3) the erLcouragement of economically viable industries in less developed
areas of Nepal, particularly small-scale village and cottage industries;
and (4) thie expansion of job opportunities.
(vii) HMG's strategy with regard to tourism development has been based
on a 1972 master plan prepared with German technical assistance. The inten-
tion is to increase foreign exchange earnings by capitalizing on Nepal's
magnificent landscape and rich cultural heritage, and to provide employment to
the rapidly growing labor force. Since the hotel capacity constraint in the
Kathmandu Valley will soon be eliminated, EMG's objectives are now to expand
the infrastructure in tourist areas outside Kathmandu, which should lengthen
the stay of tourists visiting Nepal.
(viii) NIDC has followed HMG's objectives very closely. It has financed
a number of large and small hotels in the Kathmandu Valley and it will help
expand hotel capacity in places of interest outside Kathmandu. However,
capacity requirements are relatively small; consequently, NIDC's hotel fi-
nancing role will reduce substantially in future, particularly when large
hotels currently under construction in Kathmandu are completed (1976-1979).
(ix) In view of Nepal's limited resource endowments, NIDC has financed
mainly small and simple projects, based on domestic materials. Scope exists
for further financing of projects based on agricultural raw materials and
forest products. Most of these projects are of an import substitution nature
and are aimed at expansion of the supply of basic consumer goods. The average
size of the projects will be only about $500,000, and many of these projects
involve replacement of old, obsolete machinery. It is not expected that such
projects will face raw material constraints.
(x) NIDC's approvals and commitments dropped considerably in FY76
(although disbursements remained high), mainly due to the sharp increase in
interest rates from 7.5% to 14%, but it is expected that applications will
improve in FY77, as interest rates have been reduced to 11% since July 1976.
Foreign currency commitments, including Indian rupees, are projected at Rs 48
million in FY77, Rs 61 million in FY78 and Rs 68 million in FY79. The IDA
credit will finance 40% of total foreign exchange requirements (including
Indian Rupees) of $10 million during July 1977-July 1979. For NIDC to fulfill
its projected foreign exchange commitment program, it is assumed that HMG will



- iii -
continue to allow convertibility of locally borrowed Nepalese currency into
Indian, although the IDA funds may also be utilized for the import of Indian
machinery and equipment.
(xi) To cope satisfactorily with the increased future operations, NIDC's
organization policies and procedures need to be strengthened. This is also
recognized by NIDC management who have already implemented IDA's recommenda-
tions aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of NIDC's operations.
This will be facilitated by the fact that NIDC has recently transferred the
management of two industrial districts   to the Industrial Services Center
and has ceased its cottage industries assistance, which responsibility has
been taken over by the commercial banks and the Department of Cottage Indus-
tries. As a consequence, NIDC management can now give its undivided atten-
tion to financing of small, medium and largescale industrial projects.
(xii) NIDC's financial position is very strong, because HMG has made all
its capital contributions from the budget in the past in the form of equity,
resulting in a debt/equity ratio of 0.5:1 at the end of FY76. Its profit-
ability was low in the past but has increased substantially in FY75 and
FY76 (1.1% return on equity) and it is expected to increase to 2.8% by FY81.
NIDC's debt-equity limit has been set at 5 to 1, though it should not reach
this limit for the next 5 years.
(xiii) The quality of NIDC's loan portfolio has improved significantly
in recent years with arrears (principal and interest) decreasing from 30% of
the loan portfolio in FY73 to 11% in FY76. NIDC has increased its provision
for doubtful debts to Rs 3.3 million which is reasonable.
(xiv) On the basis of agreements reached with HMG and NIDC, a $4 million
IDA credit is recommended which will be on-lent by HMG to NIDC at 8.2%. The
objectives of the proposed credit are: (a) to help finance economically via-
ble industrial projects controlled by the private sector; (b) to provide the
basis for an institution building program for NIDC. Two experienced advisors,
one for policy matters and one for the improvement of NIDC's accounting and
information system, will be assigned to NIDC for a period of about two years
each. UNDP has agreed to finance the former advisor, and the United Kingdom
has tentatively agreed to finance the latter advisor. The 48 man-months of
technical assistance is estimated to cost about $216,000.






NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Nepal Industrial Development (NIDC) was established in 1959 as
a fully government-owned institution with the responsibility of promoting and
financing private industry. Over the years, it has received technical and
financial assistance from bilateral aid agencies. NIDC had been the only
source of medium and long-term financing for private industry in Nepal until
1975 when commercial banks were permitted to make term loans for industry.
1.02      At the request of HMG, a Bank mission visited NIDC in November/
December 1973 to review its operations. NIDC's foreign resource position at
that time was sufficiently strong and no lending recommendation was made. How-
ever, in the past three years, this has changed substantially with the result
that a $4 million IDA credit is now recommended to HMG to be on-lent to NIDC.
The objectives of the proposed credit are to meet part of NIDC's foreign
resource requirements from July 15, 1977 to July 15, 1979 and to assist in
the development of NIDC as a strong and viable organization that finances the
private sector in Nepal.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.01      Nepal's GDP was estimated to be Rs 15.1 billion in current prices
at the end of FY75, having increased from an estimated Rs 13.1 billion in
FY74, or by 15% 1/. In real terms, Nepal's economic growth has been slow,
with an average real rate of growth of 2.2% from FY67 to FY75. During the
same period, population increased by just over 2%. There was, therefore,
hardly any increase in GDP per capita which was just over $100 in FY75.
Agriculture accounts for roughly two-thirds of GDP, 80% of export earnings
and about 90% of employment. The manufacturing, mining and construction
sector accounted for only 4% of GDP, although these sectors have been rapidly
growing. Over the past ten years, value-added in manufacturing has more than
doubled in real terms.
2.02      Nepal's balance of payments position had been favorable until the
end of FY74 as the trade deficit had been more than offset by remittances
and pensions, interest on external reserves and tourism. Balance of payments
1/   A more detailed assessment of Nepal's economy is contained in the Bank's
latest economic report No. 1180-NEP of July 22, 1976.



-2-
surpluses amounted to about $10 million a year and foreign exchange reserves
were $139 million in November 1974. This represented more than 12 months of
imports. However, in 1975, because of the increase in overseas imports
(especially of commodities that could not be supplied by India because of
shortages and had to be supplied from other countries at higher prices) and
a concurrent increase in the outflow of private capital, foreign exchange
reserves declined to $105 million by September 1975. To cope with this situa-
tion, the Nepalese authorities adopted a package of stabilization measures
which included restraining of credit to the public sector, raising interest
rates and a partial reform of the exchange and trade system. The latter
involved a devaluation of the Nepalese rupee against the U.S. dollar from
Rs 10.56 to Rs 12.50 in October 1975, while keeping the parity rate against
the Indian rupee unchanged. The tentative figures for FY76 show a rise in ex-
ports to Rs 1,012 million for the first 9 months compared with Rs 738 million
for the first 9 months of FY75 whereas import growth was small (from Rs 1,701
million in the first 9 months of FY75 compared with Rs 1,747 million in FY76)
which has resulted in a reduced trade gap. During the same period, the rate
of increase in the Kathmandu consumer price index declined from 16% to 4%,
though this index is not an accurate yardstick for inflation. Although the
annual inflation rate has been declining in.recent years, it is still about
6%.
2.03      In FY76, Nepal's recorded trade with India accounted for approxi-
mately 75% of its total exports and 66% of its total imports. The trading
relationship between the two countries is governed by a Trade and Transit
Treaty. This treaty has expired and negotiations between the two countries
are stalemated. In the meantime, trade is still being conducted on the basis
of the old treaty though this has created some uncertainty in the investment
climate.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
Origin of Industrialization
3.01      Small-scale handicrafts have long been produced, but significant
medium industrialization did not begin until 1936 when a jute mill was estab-
lished in Biratnagar with Indian assistance. Other industries such as the
manufacture of matches, soap, rice and oil milling developed during the Second
World War. Most of these industries fared badly after the war and it was not
until the 1950's that an attempt was made to create a proper climate for in-
dustrialization. Government policy became more specific regarding industrial-
ization with the adoption of five year plans in the 1950's, with the publica-
tion of a general statement of Industrial Policy in 1957 and the creation of
the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation in 1959 to finance private
industry.



-3-
The Structure of Industry
3.02      According to the 1972/73 census of manufacturing establishments, 1/
there are approximately 2,400 manufacturing establishments in Nepal employ-
ing 50,000 workers giving an average employment per establishment of about
20 workers. However, the majority of the firms are considerably smaller than
this, with 80% of them employing less than 10 workers. It is estimated
that only 65 of these establishments employ 100 or more workers.
3.03      Industrial productivity is extremely low with the overall value -
added per worker at US$560. This is partly explained by the high labour
intensity of most of the processes, since the value of fixed assets per
worker is only US$430. Equally important factors are the high incidence of
temporary closures caused by shortages of raw materials and spare parts and
the low level of technical and managerial skills.
3.04      It is estimated that 48% of Nepal's industrial sector production is
exported. However, 95% of these exports are from the grain and oil milling
industries whose export sales are virtually confined to India. The remaining
exports are almost entirely made up of jute and jute products, while exports
from other manufacturing industries are negligible. This surprisingly high
export percentage could change as Nepal's population continues to increase
faster than its agricultural output, forcing a decline in exports based on
grain production. Nepal should continue to stress economically viable import
substitution industries and industries whose output is directed at the local
market.
Types of Industry
3.05      Most of the modern industry in Nepal, aside from tourism, is an ex-
tension of the agricultural sector. Rice and oil mills account for 76% of the
total number of establishments, 50% of the value added and provide employment
for 10,000 workers. Jute mills are the second most important industrial ac-
tivity and provide employment for 5,000 workers. Other industrial activities
consist of cigarette and shoe factories, saw milling, brick and tile manufac-
ture, mechanical workshops and a brewery. Recently, a modern cement plant
has started operation. Mining activities are limited and have so far been
confined to simple quarrying and stone crushing operations. However, HMG is
considering setting up a magnesite industry based on the Kharidhunga magnesite
deposit. Annex 1 provides data on the output of industry in Nepal and capa-
city utilization'for certain types of industries. Capacity utilization for
Nepal's major industrial sub-sectors, jute, sugar and cement (cement plant
started in 1975) has been running at a reasorably high capacity (between 66%
and 91%) during FY72-FY76. The capacity utilization of small units in the
matches, bricks and strawboard sub-sectors was lower (about 51%). By con-
trast, the capacity utilization of the beer and liquor industry has been
constantly rising and far exceeds the rated capacity. No data are available
for other sub-sectors. However, it appears that most major sub-sectors were
1/ Defined as establishments with fixed assets exceeding Rs 200,000.



-4-
not severely hampered by shortages of agricultural raw materials. The low
output of the modern brick industry was caused by stiff competition from
traditional brick plants (small brick-ovens) which produce low-quality
bricks at a very competitive price.
3.06      Cottage and Village Industry (Annex 2) is the second largest source
of employment after agriculture and its contribution to GDP is almost double
that of the modern industrial sector. This sector produces a number of goods
such as handloom cloth, blankets, rugs, footwear, carpets, handmade paper,
household utensils, simple metal tools and bamboo and reed products.
3.07      Tourism.  The tourism sector (Annex 3) has grown very rapidly in
recent years and has become the most important foreign exchange earner.
Gross earnings of foreign exchange are estimated to have generated $13.6
million in FY76, roughly equal to earnings from all merchandise exports and
representing an increase of 41% over FY75. 75,000 visitors arrived in Nepal
in 1975, and it is expected that this will reach over 130,000 by 1980, which
is not unlikely as the hotel shortage in the Kathmandu Valley will soon be
eliminated. This sector is also providing employment to a growing number of
people (currently 7,500). HMG's strategy has been based on a 1972 master plan
prepared with German technical assistance. Its present objectives are to ex-
pand tourist areas outside the Kathmandu Valley which should lengthen the stay
of tourists visiting Nepal, through the selective construction of hotels and
trekking lodges, and the provision of appropriate training to guides, hotel
staff, and employees of tourist information centers. Recently, a new Ministry
of Tourism was created to improve planning and execution of tourism activities.
Location of Industry
3.08      Most of the larger industrial units in Nepal are located in the
Kathmandu Valley or the Terai, particularly between Birganj and Biratnagar,
near the Indian border (see Map). Small units such as rice and oil mills are
scattered throughout the country. HMG is encouraging industry to locate out-
side the Kathmandu Valley by providing financial incentives such as lower
interest rates and through the establishment of industrial districts. During
the 1960's three industrial districts were established (two in Kathmandu Valley
and one in Hetaura near the Indian border ) to provide the infrastructural
base for industrial investment. The utilization of the districts developed
slowly, though the districts in the Kathmandu Valley had considerably more
success (though all remained unprofitable.) More recently, HMG began the
construction of four additional districts outside the Kathmandu Valley
(Nepalgunj, Dharan, Pokhara, and Butwal). However, given the difficulties
experienced in the past, the Industrial Services Center (para 3.15) is con-
ducting a major review of the problems and prospects of industrial districts
which is expected to be completed in mid-1977.



- 5-
Constraints on Industrialization
3.09      A number of basic factors have hampered Nepal's industrialization
process which were confirmed by industrial visits and by the results of a
sample study of eleven modern industrial enterprises 1/:
(a) The small size of the urban market, since two thirds
of the population live in the hills where monetary trans-
actions are peripheral and where their needs are met
by their own production. Only 5% of the population
lives in towns and the more accessible parts of the
Terai. As a consequence, many industries can only be
set up on a small scale. Because of this, certain in-
dustries face stiff competition from Indian imports,
which often have established brand names and channels
of distribution.
(b) The shortage of industrialists. Entrepreneurs have given
preference to quick-yielding investments such as trade and
real estate. Further, there is a shortage of skilled and
semi-skilled workers.
(c) The high cost of production in Nepal, caused by its
land-locked position, its mountainous terrain and its
uncertain supply of inputs.
(d) Shortage of known exploitable natural resources.
Industrial Planning
3.10      The first four five year plans concentrated mainly on the creation
of road infrastructure, air transport, a telecommunication network and elec-
tricity generation. With respect to industry, no development strategy had
been carefully enunciated since the plans mainly consisted of a tentative
list of industrial units to be established over each five year period, with-
out regard to priorities and how the units might be financed.
3.11      In the fifth five year plan (1976/1980), HMG has shifted its prior-
ities from infrastructural investments in favor of directly productive activ-
ities and has allocated approximately 18% of its total planned development
1/   The data for this study was gathered by the staff of the Industrial
Services Centre and although the number of the companies in the sample
is small, they represent a wide range of industrial activity. One of
these companies exported all its products, two companies produced import
substitution goods while the remaining companies produced goods for
local consumption. One company imported all its raw material while
the remaining companies used mainly local material. M4ost of these
industries had been established in the last 10 years.



- 6 -
expenditure to the industrial sector (including power). This is a substan-
tial share in view of Nepal's small industrial GDP.  HMG has now defined
its objectives with regard to the industrial sector as follows:
(i) The encouragement of import substitution industries for
certain essential goods such as sugar, textiles, paper,
cement, etc.
(ii)  The development of export industries based on local raw
materials, such as jute and tea.
(iii) The encouragement of economically viable industries in
less developed areas of Nepal, particularly Small-scale and
Village and Cottage industries (Annex 4).
(iv)  The expansion of the job opportunities for the growing
labor force.
Industrial Policy
3.12      HMG's 1974 Statement of Industrial Policy defines and classifies
industry by type of activity, size of capital investment and whether they are
reserved for the public sector, could be jointly owned by the public and pri-
vate sector, or could be completely privately owned. It also specifies the
tax holidays, custom rates and excise duty exemptions that are open to the
different industries. These incentives vary according to the size and type of
industry, the number of workers employed in the industry and its geographical
location. Annex 4 contains a summary of the important points of this statement.
HMG's incenatives favor capital-intensive industries, although there are some
emp'loyment incentives. However, increases in interest rates has removed part
of the bias towards capital-intensive industries. There are also biases such
as interestl rate differentials and tax holidays towards the less developed
areas of Nepal (Annex 4, paras 5 and 6). Although the intentions behind these
policies have merit, the measures are probably ineffective: Infrastructure
and availability of raw materials and markets are more important factors for
industrialization in these areas.
3.13      The present industrial statement is an improvement on its prede-
cessor although the categorization of industry by type is still vague and
not mutually exclusive. HMG, in difficult cases, reserves the right to place
an industry in what it believes is the most appropriate category and although
the incentives for particular industries are stated, in practice many entre-
preneurs still find that these incentives are not always available.
3.14      In the past, HMG has had to invest in industrial projects that
were reserved for the private sector, due to the lack of private investors.
It is estimtated that HMG has at least a majority share in enterprises which
represent over 35% of the total authorized capital of the major industries.
There is now sufficient private interest in industry and it is expected that
HMG will not have to take over projects in the future which are reserved for
the private sector.  In June 1976, HMG also opened new areas of investment



to the private sector 1/ that were previously reserved for 51% government
owned corporations. The 1976-80 plan anticipates that over 60% of industrial
investment will come from the private sector. There are at present 74 govern-
ment controlled corporations in Nepal. The majority of these corporations
have not been operated profitably and have been receiving subsidies from HMG.
Consequently, a "Corporation Coordination Council" was established in January,
-1975 with the objective of establishing a mechanism to analyse the performance
of government controlled companies and to recommend improvements. The chair-
man of this council reports directly to the Prime Minister and is administra-
tively attached to the Cabinet Secretariat.
Industrial Coordination
3.15      One of the difficulties that had hindered industrial development
in Nepal in the past had been the lack of coordination between the different
ministries and the overlapping of responsibilities between the different
institutions concerned with industrial development. In 1974, HMG created
the Industrial Services Centre (ISC) with the objective of consolidating in
one place all aspects of industrial development in Nepal (Annex 5 describes
its organizational structure and its present activities). NIDC remains the
main source of finance for the development of the private industrial sector.
Coordination between these different institutions is mainly achieved by
cross-representation on their respective Boards of Directors. The relevant
Ministries and the Rastra Bank are represented on each Board of Directors.
NIDC's General Manager is a member of the ISC Board and is an invitee to the
Licensing Board, while the Executive Chairman of ISC is a special invitee to
NIDC's Board of Directors.
Licensing Procedures
3.16      Industries with a capital investment greater than Rs 1,000,000
require a license from the Licensing Board. The Board's composition is shown
in Annex 6 and contains a special invitee from NIDC. Industries having a
capital investment between Rs 200,000 and Rs 1,000,000 have to apply for a
license from the Department of Industry. Village and Cottage industries need
only complete a simple registration form.
3.17      The Industrial Policy Statement specifies a time limit for licens-
ing decisions which varies with the size of the capital investment 2/. During
1972-76, approximately 50% of the applications received were approved, with
the size of the investment varying widely from year to year (Annex 7). Most
of these licenses (32%) were for agro-based industries, 20% for general manu-
facturing industries and 17% for tourist-based industries. Not all the li-
censes issued were used by the entrepreneurs, partly due to changes in the
1/   Primary consumption goods (cotton, textiles, dairy production, vegetable
ghee, writing and printing paper) can now be produced by private sector
majority owned corporations.
2/   For small-scale industry, a maximum processing time of 30 days, for
medium-scale industry, 60 days, and for large-scale industry, 90 days.



-8-
investment climate. HMG has now started to cancel licenses when it expects
that a project will not materialize in the near future.
Industrial Finance
3.18      Sources of Funds.  Funds for industrial development are provided
by HMG, foreign aid, commercial banks 1/, the Agricultural Development
Bank (AGDB) 2/, NIDC and by private investors from their own resources.
Long-term finance for the public sector is provided by HMG and by foreign
aid. HMG had invested about Rs 104 million up to the end of FY74 in the
equity of public corporations engaged in the industrial sector. Foreign
aid, usually in the form of grants, had amounted to approximately Rs 252
million by the end of FY75, most of this in the public sector. Working
capital financing for public sector companies has also been provided by
HMG through budget allocations.
3.19      Information on fixed investment in the private sector is unavail-
able, except for investments provided by NIDC and its clients. Annex 8 shows
that in FY75, NIDC invested Rs 51.2 million in fixed assets while in the same
period NIDC's clients invested Rs 45 million.
3.20      The commercial banks have been the main source of working capital
financing for industry. It is estimated that outstanding loans to private
and public sector industry amounted to Rs 51.5 million or 2% of their total
assets as of July 1975. With the amendment of the Commercial Bank Act (1975),
it is now envisaged that they will play a larger role than previously in pro-
viding funds to industry, since the Act allows the commercial banks to extend
term loans up to 10 years for the first time. As the banks do not currently
have project appraisal skills, they are considering joint project financing
with NIDC. NIDC will undertake the project appraisal and supervision for
a fixed fee. The amended Act also allows the banks to acquire second mort-
gages, thereby easing the burden of an entrepreneur in raising additional fi-
nancing once his assets had been mortgaged to one financial intermediary. It
is not expected that commercial banks will provide long-term funds, to any
significant extent, to industry given their weakness in project appraisal.
However, the commercial banks are expected to become an important source of
long and short-term financing for village and cottage industries as the Rastra
Bank has required them to provide 7% of their end FY76 deposits to this sector.
3.21      Capital Market.  Except for a Government Bond market, no organized
capital market exists in Nepal. Since 1964, HMG has had twelve tax free bond
issues amounting to Rs 408 million, carrying rates of interest ranging from
6% and 10% (latest), and maturities ranging from 5-10 years. Major buyers
1/   There are two commercial banks in Nepal, the Nepal Bank Ltd. (109
branches) which is 50% owned by HMG and the Rastriya Banijya Bank
(71 branches) which is 100% owned by HMG.
2/   The AGDB is engaged in short and long-term finance to the agricultural
sector.



- 9 -
are commercial banks (40%), insurance companies (6%), NIDC and the Agricul-
tural Development Bank (5.5%), with the Rastra Bank holding most of the bal-
ance. The absence of a share market can be partly explained by the fact that,
historically, entrepreneurs have tended to establish sole proprietorship,
partnership, or private limited companies. Since the promulgation of the
first Company Act in 1936, however, 87 manufacturing public limited companies
have been formed with an authorized capital of over Rs 870 million covering a
wide range of industries. However, given the uneven performance in terms of
profitability of such companies and the attractive investment alternatives 1/
(para 3.09), the appeal of such share subscriptions by investors has not been
very great.
3.22      Nevertheless, with a view to assisting public limited companies to
sell new issues of shares and debentures to investors as well as to create a
market place for securities, a "Security Marketing Centre Ltd." was formed in
April 1976 as a subsidiary of NIDC. The authorized share capital is Rs 1 mil-
lion, and is 51% owned by NIDC and 49% by the Rastra Bank. It is unlikely,
in the near term, that there will be much demand for underwriting or buying
and selling of shares, particularly in the absence of any incentives for com-
panies to go public, though NIDC could create a small market through sales
from its own portfolio. The most promising immediate activity for the Center
would be in the creation of a secondary Government bond market.
Interest Rates
3.23      In the past one and a half years, Nepal's interest rate structure
has been changed three times. In April 1975, the Nepal Rastra Bank increased
deposit rates by between 1-1/2% and 11-1/2% (Annex 9) and lending rates
by 2% to 6% (Annex 10). The sharp increase in interest rates resulted in
increased fixed deposits of commercial banks, though this did not result in
increased lending as borrowers were discouraged by the high interest rate.
Instead, it was used to repay the banks' loans from the Rastra Bank (Annex 11).
In July 1976, the Rastra Bank decided to reduce interest rate levels. This
reduction of interest rates was done independently of price developments, and
was aimed at stimulating the flow of funds to agriculture and industry, al-
though the increase in the Kathmandu price index declined in FY76 to 4% from
16% in FY74 and 75. To retain high deposits, the Rastra Bank reduced deposit
rates only slightly but decreased lending rates substantially, in particular
for fixed loans for cottage industries and basic industries (by 5 and 4%,
respectively). However, the working capital lending rates were only slightly
reduced (by 1%). Currently, interest on short-term loans is higher than on
long-term loans, probably to increase the demand for long-term loans which has
not been following the longer deposit maturity structure, but this relationship
may change in the future 2/. In February 1977 interest rates on deposits were
reduced by 1 to 2% (Annex 9) and on commercial bank loans to cottage industries
for working capital from 14 to 10% (Annex 10).
1/   Commercial bank long-term fixed deposits (over two years) also give
a high return, 14-15%.
2/   Between  April 15, 1975 and July 1976, all lending rates were a flat 15%.



- 10 -
3.24      As part of the April 1975 interest rate changes, the Rastra Bank
directed all financial intermediaries to provide a clause in their loan
agreements to the effect that loans made subsequent to that date would carry
rates of interest which were to be adjusted retroactively in the event of
overall interest rate changes. This policy was later felt to be inappropriate
for long-term loans as the retroactive clause introduced a great deal of
uncertainty in financial contracts between financial institutions and their
clients and had a negative impact on demand for long-term loans. In addition,
it was administratively complex to deal with loans which had this feature.
The Rastra Bank has now exempted NIDC and commercial bank long-term loans
from its retroactive interest policy.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Share Capital and Ownership
4.01      NIDC was originally established in 1959 with an authorized capital
of Rs 10 million, and was fully government owned. Its authorized capital
has been gradually increased to Rs 250 million in 1976. The paid in capital
is Rs 139.3 million of which Rs 130.3 million is provided by HMG and the
remaining Rs 9 million by the Rastra Bank.
The Institution
4.02      Board of Directors.  NIDC's Act specifies that the Board shall con-
sist of six members, two of whom should be "non official" and should come
from industry or trade. The remaining directors shall be nominated by HMG.
The General Manager of NIDC acts as Secretary to the Board (Annex 12). Four
of the Board members, including the Chairman, are HMG officials; the remaining
two members are from private industry. In the past, the two members repre-
senting private industry have been from the same industrial company. This
has now changed as one of them has been replaced by the President of the
Nepalese Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Board meets, on the average,
twice a month and the attendance at these meetings has been good. The Board
has also started meeting outside Kathmandu and has organized visits to NIDC's
problem clients. The communication from the staff of NIDC to the Board is
good. It receives quarterly operating results, a list of arrears and copies
of other administrative matters.
4.03      To get a broader composition of the Board, HMG and NIDC management
feel that it would be desirable to increase the number of Directors from the
industrial sector. This would involve a change in NIDC's Act, which HMG and
NIDC are willing to consider (para 4.04). If changes to the Act are to be made,
the Act could also be amended to remove the clause which provides that only
businessmen who have no financial obligations to NIDC can be members of its
Board. Since the number of private industrialists is limited and most have
borrowed from NIDC, changing this clause is desirable. In the choice of new
members, due consideration would be given to potential conflict of interest.
The communication of information from the Board to NIDC's staff is poor. The
General Manager of NIDC recognizes this and has agreed to improve it.



- 11 -
4.04      Other Changes in NIDC's Act of 1959.  In the event that the Act is
amended to change the Board structure, NIDC's management is consideting other
amendments to be made at the same time. Firstly, the Act contains a "lender
of last resort" clause. This clause has meanwhile become inappropriate, as
NIDC is no longer the only provider of term loans to industry. 1/ Thus, the
"lender of last resort" restriction can be removed. Further, the Act spe-
-cifies that the Corporation may only guarantee loans raised by industrial
concerns through commercial banking facilities in Nepal. Similarly, the Act
could be amended to allow NIDC also to provide guarantees to foreign indus-
trial companies as well as foreign financial institutions.
4.05      Management.  Mr. Prasai was appointed General Manager in July 1976,
succeeding Mr. Sharma. Mr. Prasai is a civil servant and will probably serve
NIDC for three years or more since HMG and NIDC recognize the importance of
continuity. He is a capable administrator and was previously the Director of
Tourism and the General Manager of the Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation. Con-
sidering the many weaknesses of NIDC's policies and procedures and the General
Manager's limited experience in development banking, an experienced development
banker will be attached to NIDC as a Policy Advisor for about two years. He
will advise the General Manager on all policy and operational matters, and see
that agreed procedures and strategies are properly implemented. The appoint-
ment of the policy advisor is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit.
4.06      Staff.  As of July 15, 1976, NIDC's total staff numbered 125, of
whom 75 are professionals. Annex 13 shows the breakdown of staff between
the different professions.  NIDC does not have qualified accountants and has
therefore agreed to hire a well qualified accountant by September 30, 1977.
Moreover, as NIDC's accounting and management information system is very weak
and its resource and business planning expertise is limited, an accounting and
management information systems advisor will be attached to NIDC for a period
of two years. The appointment of the accounting and information systems
advisor is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
4.07      The staff turnover in the year ending July 15, 1976 was high in
comparison with previous years though this was due to the transfer of cer-
tain functions to ISC (Annex 5). Some new staff have been recruited to re-
place those transferred to ISC. Training has been conducted internally, mainly
on the job. The staff is reasonably well qualified, with a mix of experienced
staff and new recruits from the universities.
4.08      Recruitment of capable staff is sometimes difficult as salaries in
the private sector tend to be 30-50% higher. While NIDC need not follow the
rules set by the Public Service Commission, the NIDC Board likes to keep its
pay scales in line with the public corporations. A new set of rules has re-
cently been issued which gives more flexibility to NIDC's management in the
hiring of junior staff. At present, the Corporation Coordination Council is
reviewing the pay scales of government controlled corporations in Nepal. The
Association will keep an eye on this so that recruitment and retainment of good
staff does not become more of a problem in future.
1/   According to the Commercial Banking Act of 1975, commercial banks may
make term loans up to 10 years against adequate security (para 3.20).



- 12 -
OrganizatiorL
4.09      NlDC's organization chart is shown in Annex 14.  Several changes
have taken place in the organizational structure in the past year, partly
as a result of IDA's recommendations:
(a) The transfer of the responsibility for the Balaju and Hetauda
Industrial Districts to the Industrial Services Center (ISC)
in February 1976.
(b) ThLe Industrial Planning and Feasibility Division was trans-
ferred to ISC in July 1976 (Annex 5).
(c) The Small Scale Development Corporation (SIDC), which was
taLken over by NIDC in May 1972, has stopped making any new
loans and its responsibilities were transferred to the
Department for Cottage Industries in July 1976.
(d)  In February 1977, NIDC's organization was divided into two
parts, each headed by a Deputy General Manager. The first
is responsible for the operational aspects of the Corporation,
while the second is responsible for administration.
(e) The financial and accounting activities were concentrated
in one division.
(f) Finally, a new project implementation and follow-up division
was created in February 1977.
The last three changes have given NIDC a sound organization structure necessary
for a develcpment bank.
4.10      Prior to the transfer of NIDC's Industrial Planning and Feasibility
Division to ISC, it had produced 15-20 feasibility studies a year of reason-
able quality, of which 40% were done at NIDC's initiative, 40% at HMG's re-
quest, and 20% at the request of clients. The division had organized indus-
trial conferences, and had published a few handbooks related to industrial
investment in Nepal. Almost all of NIDC's staff from that division were
transferred to the ISC. Since the transfer, NIDC itself has undertaken few
feasibility studies, relying mainly on ISC. This is an unsatisfactory situa-
tion, as ISC, which is supposed to undertake feasibility studies for the
public as well as private sector, lacks the staff and expertise to cover the
whole industrial sector. Moreover, it is overburdened with studies and other
functions. It is, therefore, essential that NIDC begin rebuilding its indus-
trial planning and feasibility activities. 1/ HMG is aware that a better
division of labor between NIDC and ISC could be worked out, with NIDC spe-
cializing in studying a few industries but financing a broader range.
1/   NIDC should assign more of its staff to work on industrial promotion
and undertake feasibility studies for projects which could be suitable
for financing. It should also be able to make feasibility studies at
the request of clients.



- 13 -
V. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Operating Policies
5.01      NIDC's formal Statement of Investment and Operational Policies is
shown in Annex 15. The Policy Statement substantially conforms to that used
by most development banks, except that it allows NIDC to acquire majority
ownership in its sub-projects, but only in exceptional circumstances. This
qualification allows NIDC to act as a catalyst in mobilizing private invest-
ment but to dispose of its majority shareholdings when other sponsors can be
found. This is appropriate in a country the size of Nepal. The private
sector emphasis is again found in NIDC's Strategy Paper for 1977-79 (Annex 32).
This Strategy Paper relates NIDC's policies to those of HMG such as priority
regions for development and priority sectors for investment.
5.02      Other clauses of the Investment and Operational Policy Statement
prevent NIDC from making loans to enterprises with fixed assets of less than
Rs 200,000 and provide for a minimum financing operation (loan and/or equity)
of Rs 50,000 to any client. A maximum of 70% of project costs can be financed.
5.03      NIDC's Act of 1959 clearly states that it should only finance the
private sector. This had resulted in a somewhat restricted financing role
for NIDC in the sixties and early seventies, as the general lack of entre-
preneurship in Nepal has sometimes forced HMG to take up projects which were
originally reserved for the private sector. However, there is now sufficient
private business for NIDC to play a major financing role in this sector. If
NIDC were to finance public sector projects, it might come under pressure from
HMG to become involved with the large public sector units, many of which are
performing poorly.
5.04      Appraisal Procedures.  Applications for financial assistance 1/ are
first reviewed by a Loan Appraisal Committee 2/ to determine if the project
falls within NIDC's investment priorities and if so, it is passed on to the
Project Appraisal Division. A detailed report containing the division's re-
commendations is then submitted to NIDC's General Manager (who has the author-
ity to approve projects that require an investment of Rs 200,000 or less).
If the project requires a larger loan, the report is submitted to the Loan and
Investment Committee 3/. This committee can approve projects that require an
investment of Rs 1,000,000 or less while larger loan requests are submitted
to the Board for approval. Following IDA's recommendation, the NIDC Board
1/   Investors must have already obtained a license from the Licensing
Board before applying for financial asistance.
2/   Tnis committee consists of the General Manager and all concerned
division chiefs.
3/   This committee consists of the Chairman, the General Manager and the
Rastra Bank representative on the NIDC Board.



- 14 -
will consider increasing the authority limits of the General Manager and the
Loan and Investment Committee to Rs 1.0 million and Rs 2.5 million respectively.
5.05       The average time required for a loan decision to be made is six
months. This long processing time is caused by the difficulty in obtaining
information from the sponsor and his difficulty in obtaining the necessary
clearance from H1MG. The number of loan requests in FY75 and FY76 was only
26 (Annex 16). This drop in requests from 91 in FY74 and 258 in FY73 was
explained by NIDC's management largely by the sharp increase in interest
rates in FY75.
5.06       Appraisal Standards.  NIDC's appraisal standards could be improved.
Some of the project cost overruns and delays can be attributed to poor esti-
mates at the project appraisal stage. Coverage of marketing aspects and
appraisal of management tend to be weak. Further, of the 14 projects completed
in FY76, 50% incurred delays of more than one year, and 40% experienced cost
overruns in excess of 25% (Annex 17). In addition, internal financial and
economic rates of return have seldom been calculated. In future, NIDC will
calculate internal financial rates of return for all projects costing more
than Rs 1 million and economic rates of return for projects above Rs 2.5
million. Special attention will be given to capacity utilization within an
existing industry before financing new undertakings. Also, in order that NIDC
prepare and present to IDA a broad range of projects, and not merely a few
large projects, the proposed IDA credit will limit withdrawals of the proceeds
of the credit to $1 million for any one sub-project.
5.07       HMG's Industrial Policy Statement of 1974 contains a number of
clauses that affect NIDC:
(a) The Statement specifies the maximum loan percentage of
fixed assets that NIDC may make which depends on the
types of industry and on its geographical location.
Publishing this data leads the entrepreneur to expect
the maximum loan size. The loan size should be an
internal NIDC matter.
(b) The Statement sets time limits on NIDC's processing
of loan applications and on disbursement. Again, it
raises unrealistic expectations on the part of entre-
preneurs and restricts NIDC's autonomy.
The above will be corrected in the event that HMG decides to modify the
statement.
5.08       NIDC's standard loan agreement with its clients has been modified
to include a number of essential clauses previously missing. As such, it
conforms to that used by most long-term lending agencies.



- 15 -
5.09      Procurement Procedures.  NIDC, in conjunction with the project's
sponsor, invites bids from at least three sources 1/. The selection of a
source of supply is based on price, delivery time, availability of service and
spare parts, the quality and the reputation of the supplier. Annex 18 shows
the amount of procurement of foreign plant and machinery by country. India
remains the largest supplier of machinery. This is largely due to the level
of technology that is used in Nepal, price and transport cost advantages and
the relative ease in obtaining spare parts. NIDC's procurement practices are
generally satisfactory and its technical staff are competent in advising on
simple projects (rice mills, oil mills, etc.). However, when faced with
technologically more complex projects, NIDC might have to use outside con-
sultants for advice.
5.10      Disbursements Procedures.  It is usual for the average delay between
project approval and the signing of the loan commitment to be six months, which
is normally caused by the sponsor's delay or difficulty in becoming incorpo-
rated and obtaining the necessary land titles. Disbursement usually takes
place on a reimbursement basis in the case of local currency and on the basis
of the conditions of letters of credit in the case of foreign currency. It
is usual for 20-30 withdrawals to take place over the 2-3 year construction
period. NIDC insists that the sponsor disburses his funds in a fixed rela-
tionship to NIDC's funds. NIDC's disbursement procedures are generally satis-
factory. With the consolidation of all procurement, disbursement and follow-
up activities into one division, the disbursement procedures should improve.
5.11      Follow-up Procedures.  NIDC's follow-up activities are inadequate
It has only three people managing a portfolio of 190 projects scattered through-
out the country, though some staff is provided by the Regional Offices. Con-
sequently, follow-up visits are inadequate. Annex 19 shows that NIDC staff
made only 68 visits in FY76 which is a decline from FY75 (80). NIDC distin-
guishes three types of follow-up visits: (i) a courtesy visit of 1-3 hours'
duration; (ii) an evaluation visit by a team composed of three staff members
when a project has defaulted on two installments. A report is prepared-which
should cover all aspects of the project and contain action recommendations;
and (iii) a special study follow-up visit. In FY76, only three evaluation
reports were made and no special studies were carried out. NIDC seldom re-
ceives quarterly reports from its clients, although this is stipulated in its
loan documents. In future, NIDC will link-up its reporting requirements with
those of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which has had more success in
receiving data from industrialists.
5.12      Follow-up should improve with NIDC's recent organizational changes
(para 4.09). Although it is difficult to predict total follow-up staff re-
quirements, it is estimated that NIDC should allocate at least 10 people full
1/   Competitive bidding is not required for purchases less than Rs 50,000.
However, even with larger projects there is a lack of potential sup-
pliers. It is estimated that competitive bidding is used in about half
the projects.



- 16 -
time to supervise the loan portfolio.  In improving its follow-up procedures,
NIDC has undertaken:
(a) to hire or reallocate sufficient staff to enable each
project to be visited annually, and projects in arrears
over six months at least twice a year;
(b) as a result of such visits, to prepare action reports
focussing on specific problems and recommending action
to management;
(c) to review systematically the timing and content of the
reports due from its clients and to actively pursue
delinquencies; and
(d) to use Regional Offices as much as possible for follow-
up in the areas of their geographic responsibility.
5.13      Prior to the NIDC reorganization, a Small Industries Analysis and
Coordination Division was in charge of follow-up work of loans to small scale-
industry. NIDC has stopped making new loans to this sector (para 6.15). NIDC
has worked out an arrangement with the commercial banks whereby they should
consult NIDC before making any additional loans to those NIDC small-scale
clients in arrears.
Relationship with Government and Business Community
5.14      Given the fact that NIDC is (a) wholly goverment-owned, with its
Board of Directors and General Manager appointed by the Government and (b)
that it is virtually dependent on HMG for most of its resources, it is not
surprising to find that the Government wields considerable influence over
its operations. Despite this close relationship, NIDC is recognized in
Government circles as being a valuable source of information on industrial
and financial questions, particularly in the area of licensing decisions
and industrial policy formulation.
5.15      NIDC's relationship with other financial institutions is good,
and it is expected that its relationship with the commercial banks will be-
come closer, especially with the possibility of joint financing of projects
(para 3.20). NIDC's relationship with its clients is generally good although
it is sometimes criticized for the time taken in processing loan applica-
tions and the lack of thoroughness in its evaluation of certain aspects of
projects (e.g. market aspects). Also, because of the virtual absence of
reporting from NIDC's clients, NIDC often loses contact with them once a
loan is fully disbursed, particularly for those clients which are repaying
regularly.



- 17 -
VI. OPERATIONS
Summary of Operations 1/
6.01      Annex 20 shows NIDC's approvals, commitments, and disbursements from
FY71 through FY76. NIDC's business has fluctuated widely from year to year
both in numerical and monetary terms. Net approvals in FY74 amounted to Rs
41 million, in FY75 to Rs 145 million and in FY76 to Rs 16 million. From the
inception of NIDC until the end of FY75, there has also been a large gap
between gross approvals and disbursements. Two reasons exist for this: (a)
the high level of cancellations reflecting a change in investors' interest;
and (b) the slow implementation of projects. In FY76, approvals dropped to a
very low level, mainly due to a sharp increase in interest rates from 7.5%, on
the average, to 14%. From FY70 to FY74, disbursements fluctuated between only
Rs 8 million and Rs 23 million per annum (about $2 million) but they have
since increased significantly to about Rs 54 million in FY75 and Rs 37 million
in FY76. As of July 1974, loans outstanding amounted to only Rs 74 million,
but had increased to Rs 143 million as of July 1976.
Characteristics of Loans
6.02      Industrial Distribution.  Annex 21 shows the industrial distribu-
tion of loans outstanding. As of July 1976, hotels accounted for 37%, food
manufacturing 28%, cement 14%. NDIC's financing of trucks and buses, which
has been very unsuccessful (para 8.04), has declined significantly from 12.6%
in FY71 to only 1.8% in FY76. Also, NIDC financing of power units has de-
creased from 8.6% to 1.9% over the same period. Financing of manufacturing
projects has increased significantly in recent years from 41.6% in FY72 to
57.6% in FY76. It is expected that this trend will continue in the future,
when NIDC hotel financing will decline (para 9.09).
6.03      Size of Loans.  NIDC's loans are generally small; the average size
over the past two years was about Rs 2 million or $160,000 2/. During the
period FY70-FY74, the average size of the loans was only about Rs 400,000 which
shows that NIDC has been financing larger projects in recent years. Loans
under Rs 500,000 during FY75-FY76 account for over 40% of total net approvals
by number, but less than 5% by amount (Annex 22). NIDC has not systematically
kept account of employment creation as a result of its financing, but a sample
of projects indicates that total investment cost per job has been around
$3,000 in recent years.
6.04      Geographical Spread.  The bulk of NIDC's loan approvals during the
past six years have been directed to the metropolitan areas (Annex 22), gen-
erally following the national pattern of industrial distribution. 72% of
1/   Excludes SIDC portfolio.
2/   Exchange rate applied:  US$1 = Rs 12.5



- 18 -
NIDC's loans are in the Metropolitan Region (Bagmati and Narayani Zones),
7% in the Central Region (Lumbini and Gandaki Zones), 14% in the Eastern
Region (Kosi, Mechi, and Sagarmatha Zones), and 7% in the Western Region.
NIDC has recently opened three branches (in the Central, Eastern, and West-
ern Regions) in order to serve the backward areas better, which suffer from
lack of infrastructure, which should improve the geographic distribution of
its portfolio in future.
6.05      Maturity of Loans.  The maturity of loans ranges from 5 to 15
years with the longer maturities given to the larger loans (Annex 22).
Grace periods range from six months to three years depending on the gestation
period for the projects. Repayment of principal is not always determined
by factors such as debt service capability of the clients and nature of the
project. NIDC usually requires the client to repay interest accrued during
the construction and start-up period of the project in the first four years
after completion of the project in addition to the regular interest and
principal repayment requirements. This system places an undue financial
strain on the client in the early stage of operation. NIDC will consider
spreading interest accrued during construction over the whole life of the
loan.
6.06      New Versus Expansion.  During the past six years more than 3/4 of
NIDC's loans by amount and number have been made for new projects (Annex 22).
This fact reflects the limited number of existing industrial enterprises in
the country and their slow rate of growth and also suggests that NIDC has
been active in promotional work.
Guarantee Operations
6.07      NIDC does not usually make working capital loans directly (exclud-
ing SIDC operations), but it has given repayment guarantees for working cap-
ital loans obtained from commercial banks by its clients. NIDC's guarantees
(Annex 20) have reduced substantially in recent years as commercial banks may,
since the revision of the Commercial Banking Act in 1975, take a second
mortgage on assets (para 3.20). Outstanding guarantees as of July 1976
amounted to about Rs 2 million. NIDC charges a fee of 1-1/2% to 2-1/2% per
annum on its guarantees.
Equity Investments
6.08      As of July 15, 1976, NIDC's equity portfolio stood at Rs 28.4 mil-
lion (20% of NIDC's net worth) in 14 companies (Annex 23). All of these
companies had also received loans from NIDC. Four of 14 companies are known
to be operating profitability while only three companies are paying dividends.
Four companies are under construction or in the initial stage of operations
and six companies were operating at a loss as of July 15, 1976.
6.09      Sales of shares from NIDC's portfolio have been small i.e. since
FY74, NIDC sold shares of Rs 2.7 million in eight companies. Sales proceeds
for these companies equalized approximately the cost prices, which probably
reflect two things: NIDC's lack of policy regarding timing of sales and cri-
teria for determining the sales price, and the very thin market for shares,



- 19 -
which makes it difficult for NIDC to dispose of its shares profitability.
Recently, NIDC has established a fully owned subsidiary for marketing secu-
rities (para 3.22). NIDC has currently a controlling interest in four com-
panies (para 5.01). One of these companies accounts for 38.7% of its total
equity portfolio.
NIDC Terms of Assistance
6.10      Annex 24 shows NIDC's present interest and other charges.  In line
with Rastra Bank's general interest rate adjustment, NIDC's lending rates
were reduced in July 1976 from 14% to 11% on the average. The rates vary per
geographic district. The minimum rates specified are 12% in the Kathmandu
Valley, Biratnagar, and Birganj; 11% in Bhadrapur, Rajbiraj, Janakpur, Bhai-
rawa, Hetauda, and Dharan; and 10% in the least developed areas. The lending
rates for local and foreign currency loans are the same. NIDC's lending rates
are in line with those of commercial banks (11% for basic industries). With
inflation running at an annual rate of 6% with only limited prospect for in-
crease in the future, NIDC's lending rate is positive in real terms. The
Rastra Bank feels that higher lending rates will discourage private investment;
the April 1975 interest rate change from 7.5% to 14% largely caused NIDC's
large fall in net approvals in FY76 (Rs 16 million from Rs 145 million in
1975). On the basis of the current lending rate of 11% on the average, NIDC
will have a spread of 3%, on local currency borrowings from the Rastra Bank.
The IDA funds will be on-lent to NIDC at the rate of 8.2%, giving NIDC an
overall spread of about 3%, the same as on its local currency borrowings.
In view of NIDC's low administrative costs, this spread is adequate. I/ NIDC
will lend the IDA funds to borrowers a minimum rate of 11% except for the
undeveloped areas where a minimum interest rate of 10% will prevail. Loans for
projects in the more developed regions (Kathmandu Valley, Biratnagar and
Birgunj) will be charged a minimum rate of 12% (in accordance with Rastra Bank
policy). NIDC charges a penalty rate of 2% on loans overdue over 6 months and
offers an interest rebate of 0.25% for timely payments. Until recently, NIDC
charged a commitment fee of only 0.20%, which has now been raised to 0.75%, as
NIDC will be required to pay this to HMG on the IDA funds.
6.11      Foreign Exchange Risk.  NIDC's loans are all denominated in Nepal-
ese rupees and thus it assumes the foreign exchange risk on its loans from
foreign sources. In turn, NIDC recovers its foreign exchange losses from
the Rastra Bank. In view of the early stage of industrialization and the
aversion of Nepal's entrepreneurs to risktaking, the Rastra Bank will continue
to carry the exchange risk. 2/
1/   In the past, NIDC's large base of free equity contributed greatly to its
low financial costs. As further contributions are made in the form of
loans, however, the impact of this base will diminish and financial costs
are expected to rise from 1.0% of total assets in FY76 to 5.3% in FY81.
Administrative costs, however, are expected to decline from 1.6% of
total assets in FY76 to 1.0% in FY81 (Annexes 27 and 35).
2/   Rastra Bank has informed NIDC by letter (February 21, 1977) that it will
compensate NIDC for losses due to changes in the exchange rate. Payment
will be made to NIDC after the Rastra Bank receives the relevant papers.



- 20 -
Industrial Districts
6.12      NIDC has developed and managed two industrial districts, one each
in Balaju and Hetauda, to provide basic facilities such as land, buildings
and utilities to industrial enterprises. The former was established in 1961
and the latter in 1963. NIDC's investment to date in these operations has
totalled Rs 9.6 million. As of July 15, 1976, the two Industrial Districts
were transferred to the Industrial Services Center (ISC). Financial arrange-
ments have not been finalized but NIDC expects to recover its total invest-
ments of Rs 9.6 million, to be paid by BMG to NIDC without issuing new shares
to HMG. NIDC has not consolidated the accounts of the Industrial Districts
in the past, and the losses suffered have been kept in1 the accounts of the
industrial districts.
Small-scale Industry
6.13      Origins.  SIDC was established in 1971 as a government corporation
to finance small-scale industry 1/. In May 1972, NIDC took over the assets
and liabilities of SIDC, and managed them as part of its own operations.
As a result, the loss incurred by this take-over was written off in NIDC's
accounts (Rs 280,000) of FY72. At the time of the take-over, SIDC had made
22 loans which became part of NIDC's overall portfolio. As of July 15, 1976,
the responsibility for development and financing of small enterprises was
transferred to the Department of Cottage Industries (para 4.09). However,
the SIDC loan portfolio has not been transferred and will continue to be
handled by NIDC in future. The SIDC portfolio has been kept separate,
although NIDC's financial statements reflect consolidated operations. This
has been done largely because NIDC management has always felt that it will
be required to transfer SIDC back to HMG.
6.14      Operations.  As of July 15, 1976, the SIDC had approved 325 projects
amounting to Rs 9.5 million and Rs 4.1 million have been disbursed. The average
size of loan was Rs 30,000 or $2,500. Most loans have been made for hand and
powerloom units, and small rice, flour and oil mills. About 75% of SIDC's
loans have been made in the Kathmandu area (Bagmati, Janakpur and Narayani).
The small-scale industries loans were mostly made at low interest rates before
April 1975, when interest rates were increased. Prior to April 1975, lending
terms were 7-1/2% for working capital loans (up to 18 months), and 4-1/2% for
long-term loans (up to 7 years).  Between April 1975 and July 1976, the cottage
industries lending rate was 15%.
6.15      SIDC Portfolio.  Though the portfolio is still young, already 145
projects are in arrears amounting to about Rs 750,000 in principal, which is
18% of the SIDC portfolio.  On an "infected" basis, arrears amount to about
1/   This means cottage industries; SIDC have mainly financed projects
with fixed assets below Rs 200,000 which are defined as cottage
industries in the Industrial Policy Statement of 1974.



- 21 -
45% of the portfolio. Because of the difficulty of reaching many of the
small-scale clients and the fact that NIDC has stopped new lending to cottage
industries, it is expected that NIDC will not be able to recover a substantial
part of its small-scale portfolio. However, with the increased provision for
doubtful debts (para 8.06), this should be adequately covered.
VII. RESOURCES
NIDC Funding
7.01      According to the NIDC Act, NIDC can raise its financial resources
from the following sources: (a) share capital and reserves; (b) issues of
preferred shares and bonds etc.; (c) direct borrowing; and (d) grants. NIDC
has relied so far on HMG for almost all its local resources while most of its
foreign resources came from bilateral donors, arranged by HMG. Thus, NIDC's
role as a direct mobilizer of resources has been insignificant.
7.02      Annex 25 shows NIDC's resource position as of July 15, 1976, which
is summarized below:
(Rs Millions)
Domestic currency:
Share capital                                           139.3
Reserves and retained earnings                            3.9
Rastra Bank loan                                          6.0
Inconvertible foreign currency (Indian rupee)
borrowings /a:                                           29.5
Convertible foreign currency
(other than Indian rupee) /a                             55.4
Total                              234.1
/a   Net of cancellations and repayments.
7.03      Domestic Currency Resources.  HMG's subscription to NIDC's share
capital (paid-up capital of Rs 134.3 million and Rs 5 million advances for
share capital increase) constitute over 90% of NIDC's local resources. The
remaining local resources consist of Rs 3.9 million of reserves and retained
earnings and a 10-year loan of Rs 6 million from the Rastra Bank. As of
July 15, 1976, local resources amounted to about two-thirds of NIDC's total
resources. However, about half of the Nepalese rupees have been converted
into Indian rupees I/ for the import of machinery and equipment from India.
1/   Although the Indian rupee is-not legal tender in Nepal, it has been per-
missible so far to convert Nepalese currency into Indian currency.



- 22 -
7.04      Inconvertible Foreign Currency (Indian rupees) Resources.  NIDC
has obtained four lines of credit in Indian rupees (Annex 26). A US Export
Import Bank credit equivalent to US$1 million in Indian rupees was obtained
in 1960 through HMG. The credit was fully utilized and tied to procurement
of goods in India. Two lines of credit from USAID amounting to Nepalese rupees
26 million equivalent were granted through HMG in 1963 and 1966 and were fully
disbursed. In 1964 the Government of India also made an inconvertible rupee
loan available, and most of the funds have meanwhile been utilized. If Nepalese
and Indian currency are taken together (Annex 25) NIDC had, as of July 15, 1976,
inconvertible resources of Rs 17.8 million available for disbursements. How-
ever, NIDC had already committed Rs 62.1 million at that time in the expecta-
tion of loans to be obtained from the Rastra Bank where it has access to bor-
rowings of up to Rs 90 million, which is convertible into Indian currency.
7.05      Convertible Foreign Currency Borrowings.  NIDC has received eight
loans and credits in convertible currencies from five different sources.
Two USAID credits totalling US$1.4 million were obtained in 1961 and 1963
through HMG, but only $400,000 has been utilized, with the remainder can-
celled. From KfW, NIDC received three loans (untied), two of DM 2 million
and one of DM 3 million in 1964, 1966 and 1974. The first two KfW loans
were fully disbursed and the third loan has an undisbursed balance of DM
1.7 million, but the loan is already fully committed. In 1965, NIDC obtained
a sterling loan of 1 150,000 from the UK government which was fully utilized
to help expand an existing power plant. In 1970, NIDC received a Japan Exim
Bank loan of Yen 360 million or about Rs 16 million, of which Yen 17 million
was cancelled. Meanwhile, the loan has been fully utilized. In June 1973,
NIDC was granted an interest-free loan from the Danish Government. The
loan amounted initially to Dkr 16.1 million (tied) or Rs 30.5 million, but
as NIDC could not use the whole amount, Rs 14.4 million was transferred to
the government-owned Dairy Corporation. The loan is meant to be used for
slaughter houses, and meat and dairy processing projects. As shown above,
in a few cases part of the loans and credits were cancelled. The reason for
this was that NIDC could not use the funds since procurement of equipment
and machinery was tied to the country supplying the funds. Furthermore,
NIDC's lending program (para 5.02) was restricted, particularly in the
sixties by the lack of private entrepreneurs. As of July 15, 1976, NIDC
had only Rs 25.3 million available for disbursements. However, NIDC had
undisbursed commitments Rs 34.4 million, thereby creating a shortfall of
Rs 9.1 million. Although NIDC's sub-loan documents contain a clause that
disbursements will be made to clients subject to availability of funds, it
is imprudent for NIDC to commit funds before it has secured adequate funding.
This illustrates NIDC's poor resource planning. It should be noted, however,
that NIDC has access to HMG's foreign exchange reserves if and when needed.
HMG has allocated about Rs 10 million foreign exchange to NIDC for FY77.
This seems sufficient for FY77 and could be viewed as compensation for the
Rs 14.4 million NIDC has returned to HMG in FY76 out of the Danish loan of
Rs 30.5 million. In 1972, NIDC was selected to act as channel for a fee for
a US$4 million IDA credit for tourism to HMG. Originally, the funds were to
be used for the construction of two hotels, but due to delays and cost over-
runs, IDA funds are now being utilized for one hotel only, the Yak and Yeti.



- 23 -
The IDA credit has been reduced to $3 million and the terms of credit have
been changed. The first credit tranche $1.68 million will be passed on by
HMG at 7-1/2% and the second tranche ($1.32 million) at 11%. This was decided
in view of the rise in interest rates since the credit was originally granted.
VIII. FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE
Profitability 1/
8.01      Annex 27 shows NIDC's income statements from FY71 through FY76.
Net profits after tax increased from Rs 144,000 in FY71 to Rs 1,469,000 in
FY76 2/. During the same period, assets increased from Rs 86.6 million to
Rs 226.4 million. As profits rose more rapidly than assets, the profits
after tax as % of average total assets increased from 0.1 to 0.7. Note-
worthy in Annex 28 is the wide gap between the gross income on the loan
portfolio and the gross income on average total assets. This is mainly
due to three factors: (1) The low return on NIDC's liquid resources, par-
ticularly in the period FY72-FY74. These funds were largely invested in
low yield short-term deposits; (2) the investment of a substantial amount
of NIDC's funds in shares, which have a very low dividend pay out; and
(3) NIDC's investment of Rs 9.6 million in non-income producing industrial
districts. Administrative expenses as % of total assets during FY71-FY76
increased slightly from 1.3 to 1.6, but financial cost declined from 1.8
to 1.0. Although return on equity has increased in recent years (from 0.2%
in FY72 to 1.1% in FY76), it should still be considered low. This is
caused by the absence of financial leverage (debt to equity ratio 0.5 to
1 as of July 1976) (para 8.02).
Financial Position
8.02      NIDC's balance sheets are shown in Annex 29 for the years FY71-FY76.
In FY72, total assets increased strongly due to the large increase in paid-
up capital (Rs 43 million), which placed NIDC in a very liquid position.
NIDC did not use these resources until FY75, when disbursements increased
considerably (Rs 54 million). Meanwhile, HMG made further contributions
to NIDC's share capital which caused NIDC to remain an unleveraged financial
institution (Rs 139 million share capital versus only Rs 64 million debt as
of July 15, 1976). This practice of funding NIDC with excessive amounts of
free equity, which rarely carried dividends (para 8.03), has signified a
subsidy to NIDC without explicit justification. Therefore, HMG plans to
1/   In discussing NIDC's financial position and performance, it should
be noted that the industrial districts have not been consolidated in
NIDC's financial statements, and figures between years are not fully
comparable due to rapid change-over of NIDC's auditors, who have not
always applied the same accounting principles and methods.
2/   Unaudited figures.



- 24 -
provide funds in the foreseeable future largely in the form of loans. The
current plan projects Rs 120 million from the Rastra Bank and Rs 50 million
from HMG although additional loans will be provided if needed. After FY81,
further equity might be required.
8.03      So far, NIDC has not followed a formal policy with regard to divi-
dend payout. From FY71-FY76, a dividend was declared only once in FY74 (Rs
100,000). NIDC is considering a dividend of Rs 200,000 for FY76, which will
result in a payout ratio of only 1.5% because of NIDC's large equity base.
HMG is expected to allow NIDC as a government-owned institution to retain most
of its earnings in future in order to build up its reserves, though they would
like the payout ratio to increase in future.
Quality of Portfolio
8.04      Arnnex 30 shows the development of overdues from FY73 to FY76.  As
of July 15, 1976, 56% of the companies were in arrears as compared with 58%
in FY73. However, principal and interest in arrears over 6 months as % of
loans oustanding amounted to only 11.5 in FY76 compared to 30.3 in FY73,
which indicates a strong improvement in NIDC's collection performance during
recent years. The reason why the number of companies in arrears has not de-
clined much is that NIDC has not been able to collect overdues on its many
small loans made to the transport, sawmailling and cold storage and ice sub-
sectors. For example, 35 small projects in these subsectors remain outstand-
ing, representing only 5% of the loan portfolio by amount. Most of these
loans were made before FY73. An analysis shows that many of these loans were
made without proper market analysis (para 6.02). By contrast, arrears in the
food sub-sector were only 8.5% while this sector accounted for 28% of NIDC's
loan portfolio (Annex 31).
8.05      In recent years, NIDC has taken a number of actions to improve its
collections. However, action often came too late for its small loans, and
consequently, seizing of property and issuing legal notices is no longer eco-
nomical in view of the high recovery cost and the low recovery rate. NIDC,
therefore, hopes to recover most of these loans through a stronger follow-up,
but it will have to write off ultimately many of its small loans. NIDC has
only rescheduled seven loans, all during FY76. As of July 1976, it has seized
four properties, issued eight legal notices and had put financial controllers
in four companies.
8.06      Despite recently made improvements in NIDC's collection performance,
and its expected strengthening of follow-up work, provisions for doubtful loans
have been inadequate and were thus increased in FY76 to Rs 3.3 million from the
previous Rs 2.1 million. 1/ This represents 2% of its loan portfolio. NIDC's
management intends to set aside larger amounts for reserves in future.
1/   NIDC's badly performing small-scale industries portfolio (para 6.15)
increased the need for higher provisions.



- 25 -
8.07      Audit.  The auditor-general appoints auditors for public sector
corporations. Due to the rapid change-over of auditors, which is government
practice in Nepal, and the early state of development of Nepal's accounting
profession, audits are not comprehensive. In addition, the shortage of char-
tered accountants often leads to audits being late. NIDC's current auditor,
Sunder and Co., who was appointed this year, is reasonably well qualified and
their term should be extended. However, the tenure of NIDC's auditors is a
matter for the Auditor-General to decide and he is being asked to consider the
matter. Meanwhile, the auditors will prepare the long-form audit beginning
July 15, 1977.
IX. PROSPECTS
General Outlook
9.01      HMG has stated in its five year plan 1976-1980 the objective of
reducing the import of simple consumer goods and construction materials.
To that end, a number of medium and large-scale projects have been planned
in the public sector, such as a textile mill, a cement plant, plywood plants
and possibly one or two mining operations (magnesia, lead and zinc). In
the private sector, 127 small, medium and large-scale projects are planned,
mainly based on availability of domestic raw materials. The total amount of
funds involved is estimated at around half a billion rupees ($40 million) 1/.
HMG's attitude towards the private sector continues to be very positive and
recently it even increased the number of industries open to the private sector
(para 3.14).
9.02      NIDC Strategy.  NIDC will continue to be guided by HMG's industrial
policies. These include: (a) the reduction of imports by the establishment
and expansion of a number of basic industries such as soap, textiles and
building materials; (b) the establishment, modernization and expansion of
industries which make use of domestic raw materials and forest products;
(c) the expansion of hotel capacity in places of interest outside the Kath-
mandu Valley; (d) the development of the local construction industry; and
(e) the reduction of regional imbalances in industrialization. NIDC is charged
with the main responsibility to finance industrial projects, including tourism
projects 2/ reserved for the private sector. To cope with an increased lend-
ing program in the future, NIDC plans to strengthen its operations (para
5.11), and to undertake a number of other steps as outlined in its strategy
paper (Annex 32). As a condition of Board presentation of the IDA credit,
the strategy statement like the policy statement should have been approved
by NIDC's Board of Directors.
1/   Inflationary developments since 1974, when the preparation of the
plan took place, have made this estimate inadequate.
2/   NIDC will also follow government guidelines with regard to tourism
development.



- 26 -
Resource Requirements
9.03      Annex 33 shows the forecast of NIDCGs approvals, commitments and
disbursements for FY77-FY81. Its foreign commitments from July 15, 1976 to
July 1979 will amount to about $14 million, of which almost $4 million are
non-Indian foreign currency requirements. The $10 million equivalent of Indian
currency will be available through local currency loans from HMG and Rastra
Bank (para 7.04) and NIDC's internal cash generation and loan collections.
The proposed IDA credit will therefore cover all other foreign exchange needs.
The IDA funds can also be used for the import of machinery and equipment from
India. It is not expected that foreign exchange will be forthcoming in the
foreseeable future from other sources except through purchases from the Rastra
Bank. KfW, which has given NIDC three loans in the past, seems to have ear-
marked its development assistance for Nepal to other sectors involving large
projects. Assuming that HMG will continue to allow convertibility of Nepalese
currency into Indian, NIDC will be able to meet all foreign currency needs, but
this in turn assumes that NIDC can borrow sufficient local funds (para 9.04).
9.04      Domestic.  NIDC's future need for domestic currency will be very
large, because loan collections will be small and portfolio growth has been
accelerating since FY74. The Rastra Bank is prepared to provide the bulk
of the funds needed by NIDC in future. During the period FY77-FY79, it is
expected that the Rastra Bank will make Rs 147 million or $12 million avail-
able to NIDC, assuming that HMG will discontinue providing equity capital
to NIDC for the foreseeable future (para 8.02). It has been Rastra Bank's
practice to provide 10-year loans, at a variable interest rate (currently 8%)
to be repaid in a lump sum at the end of the loan period.
NIDC Pipeline
9.05      NIDC is expected to commit from July 1976 until July 1979 about
$21 million in total investments (loans and equity) of which about $14 mil-
lion will be foreign exchange, including Indian Rupees. Disbursements for
all projects, both already committed (para 9.06) and new projects not yet
approved or committed (para 9.07) during the same period, will amount to
$24 million in total investments, which is $3 million higher than total
commitments. This is due to the fact that NIDC has many projects in its
pipeline which are already committed, but for which disbursements have
either partially taken place or have not yet started (as of July 1976).
9.06      NIDC has about 55 projects in its pipeline which are already
approved and committed, but not yet disbursed or only partly disbursed.
The foreign currency requirements including Indian rupees for these proj-
ects amount to about $5 million. It is not expected that many of these
projects will be financed from the proposed IDA credit, as most disburse-
ments will be made before IDA funds come on stream (mid-1977). Included in
this list are a few large hotel projects (Soaltee, Annapurna, Yak and Yeti),
but most projects are based on agricultural raw materials and local skills
and cater to the domestic market.



- 27 -
9.07      The proceeds from the proposed IDA credit will mainly be used
for projects which are currently under investigation, but not yet approved.
NIDC's new project pipeline (Annex 34) include mainly projects based on
agricultural raw materials and forest products such as flour mills (2), rice
mills (5), starch and glucose, wood processing (for export), wood seasoning,
furniture, and sal seed oil. Also included in its pipeline are a number of
projects which are of an import substitution nature such as insecticides,
paper, soft drinks (cola), soap and beer. Furthermore, a number of work-
shops, repair shops, small hotels and projects based on availability of
other local materials/skills are included 1/. The pipeline represents a sub-
stantial reduction from the original NIDC proposed project list, as a large
number of economically unattractive or premature projects have been excluded.
Many projects are replacement for existing old and obsolete mills (flour and
rice mills). It is not expected that output of proposed projects will be
constrained in future by lack of raw materials.
9.08      All projects in NIDC's project pipeline are consistent with HEG's
industrial development plans. To avoid duplication of projects and to make
NIDC's pipeline as realistic as possible, only projects reserved for the
private sector are included. Recently HMG prepared, with the assistance of
the World Bank, an external assistance document for Nepal's Aid Group. One
such project, starch and glucose, is already included in NIDC's pipeline.
Other projects such as a sugar mill, a paper mill, a textile mill, and a
number of chemical projects are not in the NIDC pipeline, but are in the Aid
Group document. If the projects can be run as commercial ventures, they could
enter the NIDC pipeline e.g. under the Technical Assistance Credit (No. 659),
IDA is assisting HMG in preparing a feasibility study for a proposed Paper
mill project. For most projects, qualified private sponsors have been iden-
tified. Only about 30 projects, with an average size $500,000, have been
included in the project list and it is expected that disbursements on them
will take place during the period FY1977-1979. NIDC is currently not con-
sidering financing other projects. It is estimated that NIDC's portfolio
(190 projects) will not increase in number since many small projects will be
repaid or will have to be written off soon. Therefore, it is expected that
NIDC will not have any difficulty absorbing the increased portfolio in mone-
tary terms. As it is not expected that the commercial banks 2/ will be
forthcoming with long-term funds in the future, to any significant extent,
NIDC will remain the main financier of private industry.
1/   NIDC will also finance the construction industry in future.  It is
expected that once this is known to builders, some loan applications
will come forward. No construction projects, however, have been
included in NIDC's project pipeline.
2/   It is conceivable that NIDC and commercial banks may jointly finance a
few projects, as the commercial banks do not have industrial appraisal
capabilities.



- 28 -
9.09      Total disbursements (foreign and local) for all projects will amount
to approximately $6 million in FY77, $8 million in FY78 and $10 million in FY79
(Annex 33), whereas disbursements averaged over $4 million during FY75 and
FY76. Assuming inflation rates of 6-8% per annum over the next few years and
NIDC's increased project implementation experience, it should be able to dis-
burse the indicated amount of funds. It is estimated that about 60% of NIDC's
disbursements will be for projects based on agricultural raw materials and
forest products. Hotel disbursements will decline drastically to less than
20% by end-FY79 and to 10% in later years when large hotels under construction
(para 9.06) are completed.
Financial Projections
9.10      Annex 35 shows projected income statements for FY77-FY81.  Due to
increased financing of NIDC's investments with debt, the net return on NIDC's
equity is projected to rise substantially from 1.3% in FY77 to 2.8% in FY81
(Annex 36). However, because interest costs on borrowings will significantly
raise the financial cost as a % of NIDC's total funding, the before tax profit-
ability on total assets, despite reduced administrative expense, will drop
slightly from 2.7% in FY77 to 2.2% in FY81. Nevertheless, NIDC's profita-
bility should be regarded as sufficient, particularly since HMG will likely
allow NIDC to increase its reserves annually. In addition, profitability will
be sufficient to continue to set aside 2% of its increased loan portfolio for
doubtful loans.
9.11      Annex 37 shows projected cash flow statements through FY81.  The
need for external borrowings, foreign and local, will be large, because
NIDC's existing loan portfolio is relatively young and its new loans will
not generate internal funds, to any significant extent, for some years to
come. It is not expected that NIDC will face liquidity problems in the
immediate future as it is likely to continue to obtain long-term funds from
the Rastra Bank and also intends to raise local funds by issuing debentures.
9.12      Annex 38 shows projected balance sheets through FY81.  Total assets
are expected to grow from Rs 291 million in FY77 to Rs 784 million or by 27%
per annum. The rapid growth is due to the relatively high disbursements vis-
a-vis repayments falling due 1/. Reserves for doubtful loans as a % of total
loan portfolio will gradually rise from 2.5% in FY77 to 2.8% in FY81. The
debt to equity ratio will increase strongly, assuming that no equity contri-
butions will be made by HMG during the period studied, from 0.8:1 in FY77 to
3.9 in FY81. By that time, it is likely that HMG will resume its equity
contributions. For the purposes of this proposed credit, NIDC's debt to
equity ratio has been set at a maximum of 5 to 1.
1/   NIDC's loan collections will be minimal in the next few years.  The
funds for most projects have recently been disbursed or are still not yet
fully disbursed so that, taking the grace period into account, loan
repayments on these projects, which form a large part of its portfolio
(para 6.01), will be small.



- 29 -
X. OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Objectives of Credit
10.01     The proposed credit has two primary objectives:
(a) to help finance economically viable industrial projects
controlled by the private sector;
(b) to build a stronger financial institution through changes
in NIDC's organization, reallocation and expansion of staff,
improvements in appraisal standards, increased follow-up
activities, and revised policies and strategies.
Lending Scheme
10.02     The proposed credit of $4 million would be made to HMG to be on-
lent to NIDC to meet 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
capital goods and services of sub-projects sponsored by private productive
enterprises to be broadly defined so as to include not only manufacturing,
but also agro-industries, mining, construction and hotel projects. As part
of the project, but to be financed by UNDP and the United Kingdom 1/, techni-
cal assistance for 2 advisors, involving 48 man-months at a cost of about
$216,000, is included (paras 4.05-4.06).
Main Terms
10.03     Interest.  HMG would on-lend the IDA credit to NIDC at 8.2% and
NIDC will finance sub-projects at minimum rates of 10 or 11% (depending on
the region), thus generating for NIDC an overall spread of about 3% (para
6.10).
10.04     Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Rastra Bank has carried the exchange
risk under previous bilateral foreign currency loans to NIDC. In view of the
early stage of industrialization and the aversion of Nepal's generally small
entrepreneurs to risktaking, the Rastra Bank will continue to carry the ex-
change risk (para 6.11).
10.05     Free Limit.  Considering that this is the first credit to NIDC, a
low free limit of $80,000 has been set for foreign exchange borrowings. This
would allow IDA prior approval on about 40% of the subprojects by number and
75% by amount. In addition, no withdrawal from the proceeds of the credit for
an individual sub-loan can exceed $1 million (para 5.06).
10.06     Amortization Schedule.  NIDC will provide loans with a maturity of a
maximum of 15 years. Therefore, allowing for the commitment period, an
eighteen-year flexible amortization schedule is recommended including three
years of grace. A disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 39.
1/   To date, the United Kingdom has only tentatively agreed to providing
a grant to cover the costs of the Accounting and Information Systems
Advisor. The UNDP will cover the costs of the Policy Advisor.



- 30 -
XI. RECOMMENDATIONS
11.01     On the basis of the agreements reached with HMG and NIDC, a $4 mil-
lion IDA credit to HMG is recommended, to be on-lent to NIDC at 8.2%. The
only condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that NIDC has
appointed the two advisors referred to in paras. 4.05-4.06.



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CCFIORATION
INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE FY73-76
1/
INDUSIRIAL PRODUCTION IN NEPAL                   INSTALLED CAPACITY                       CAPACITY UTILIZATION
Product                  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76    1972/7j  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76   1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
(9 months)
Jute Goods-t  (1000       13.7      12.9      12.3     11.3        18.0       18.0     18.0      18.0          76        72        68        83
tons)
Sugar23/(1000 tons)       10.6      14.2      11.9     10.6        15.5      15.5      15.5      15.5          68        91        77        68
4/
Cigarettes- (billion       2.3       2.5       3.0       1.7          -         -         -                     -         -         -         -
sticks)
Matches (1000 gross)   587         662       649       330       1020      1020      1020      1020            57        65        64        43
Liquor distillation    171         206       224       334         250       250       250       250           69        83        90       180-/
(1000 litres)
Soap-(1000 maund)         36        26        24        15          -         -        -         -              -         -         -        -
Shoes-i/(1000 pairs)      79        82        70        46          -         -        -          -             _         -    *        _
Processed leather        206       197        55       174          -         -         -         -             -         -         -        -
(1000 tons)
Agricultural tools        -        381       300        -           - -       -         -         -             -         -         -        -
(1000 tons)
Tea-/ (tons)              35        54        47        37          -         -         -         -             -         -         -        -
Stainless steel          245      *209       156        94          -         -         -         -             -         -         -        -
Utensils
Straw Board (tons)       705       937      1022       693        1800      1800      1800     1800            39        52        57        51
8/
Bricks and Tiles-         26        23        26        14          40        40        50        50           65        58        52        37
(million pieces)
Beer (1000 litres)       402       542       688       589         600       600       600       600           67        90       115       131
Fertilizer (1000 tons)   0.7         0.6       0.4      -           -         -         -         -             -         -        -         -
Textiles (1000 meters)   -           -         -      2938          -         -         -         -             -         -        -         -
Cement (1000 tons)         -         -         -        23.6        -         -         -         48            _         _        _         66
1/ Supplied by the Department of Industry.
2/ Represents the output of the two largest units and reflects approximately 90% of Nepal's production.
3/ Represents approximately 100% of Nepal's production and is produced by one public and two private corporations.
4/ Represents 90% of Nepal's output as produced by one public sector corporation, there is also one small private sector corporation
whose output is not shown.
5/ Represents 20-25% of the total output.
6/ Represents only approximately 25% of total output.
7/ Represents the output of public sector corporations and only 50% of total output.
8/ Represents the output of a public sector corporation and only 20% of total output.
9/ Probably new capacity added which is not registered and/or industry works 24 hours per day.
December 17,1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Cottage and Village Industries
1.        General.  Approximately 80% of Nepal's land area is mountainous
and hilly, and although substantial investments have been made in building a
road infrastructure, large parts of the country can still only be reached by
foot trails; in such areas, transport volume and thus the size of the market
is limited to what people can carry on their backs. It is estimated that
two thirds of Nepal's population live in these remote inaccessible parts
where village and cottage industry has been the traditional economic system
for producing consumer goods. These goods are produced from local raw mate-
rials, using simple tools in the homes of the local people.
2.        HMG's 1974 Industrial Policy Statement defines village and cottage
industries as those industries with investments in fixed assets of Rs 200,000
or less. After agriculture, this sector provides the main source of employ-
ment and it is estimated that it accounted for 7% of GDP in FY75, which is
almost double the contribution of the modern industrial sector.
3.        Sector Characteristics. 1/  HMG estimates (1972/73) that there are
about 375,000 cottage industries in Nepal, providing full or part time employ-
ment to over a million workers. These industries can be classified as follows:
(a) Geographic distribution
Region                       No. of Industries ('000)
Eastern Development Region                 56         15%
Central Development Region                 12          3%
Western Development Region                211         56%
Far Western Development Region             96         26%
375       100%
1/   Detailed information on this sector is contained in the HMG report -
"Sample of the Cottage and Small Scale Industries - 1972/73".



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b)  Distribution by size of capital investment.
Investment                    No. of Industries ('000)
Up to Rs 100                               239         63.5%
Rs 101    - Rs 200                          59         16%
Rs 201    - Rs 500                          41         11%
Rs 501    - Rs 1,000                        19          5%
Rs 1,001  - Rs 10,000                       16          4%
Rs 10,001 - Rs 200,000                       1          0.5%
375       100%
The average capital investment is Rs 380 per unit.
(c) Distribution by number of workers employed.
No. of Workers                         No. of Industries ('000)
1                                    95         25%
2                                   117         31%
3-5                                  134         36%
6-9                                   29          8%
375       100%
4.        The total output of this sector was estimated at about Rs 300 mil-
lion in 1972, which is Rs 300 per worker or Rs 800 per establishment. It is
estimated that 20% of it is used for home consumption. Further, only 20%
of the output is sold for cash while the remainder is bartered.
5.        The major type of goods produced by this sector are handloom
cloth, woollen goods such as blankets and rugs, footwear, woollen carpets,
curio goods, handmade paper, pottery, household utensils, simple metal tools
and bamboo and reed products. Some of these products such as carpets and
curio goods are mainly produced for export. The Village and Cottage Indus-
tries Department estimates that the exports of curio goods in FY75 amounted
to Rs 13.5 million and carpets Rs 3.5 million.
6.        Constraints on Development.  There is substantial scope for raising
the productivity of this sector. The low productivity is due to several
factors: (a) most of these industries, especially those in the remote parts
of the hills have no access to a market outside the surrounding villages;
(b) although local raw materias are used, they may not be available in the
immediate vicinity and the nearest source could be several days away; and
(c) the small and uncertain market. New designs and improved manufacturing
techniques combined with steady access to raw materials and markets could
considerably improve the output and productivity of this sector.
7.        HMG's Policy.  HMG has defined the following objectives for the
village and cottage industries in its fifth five year plan: (a) to provide
more jobs to a greater number of people; (b) to utilize local raw materials



ANNEX 2
Page 3
as far as possible; (c) to help tourism by promoting additional skills and
crafts and by producing artifacts; (d) to create a source of regular income
for the maximum number of people; and (e) to minimize regional imbalances
and disparities.
8.        To achieve the above objectives, HMG has decided on the following
policies:
(a) Certain items will be reserved for production by village and
cottage industries.
(b) Loan facilities, raw material facilities will be made avail-
able on easy terms.
(c) The cottage industry will be modernized to increase its
productivity.
(d) The Cottage and Village Handicraft Emporium will provide
necessary imported raw material as well as marketing
facilities for finished products produced by cottage
industries.
The Cottage Industry Department
9.        The Cottage and Village Industries Department (CID) was created in
1956 and placed under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. It is the only
body with the responsibility for development of cottage industry in Nepal.
It has four basic functions: (a) it provides training programs for potential
entrepreneurs; (b) it provides them with financial help; (c) it carries out
research into improved design and manufacturing techniques; and (d) it operates
the Handicraft Emporium Center. CID has 25 regional branches outside Kathmandu,
each is staffed by three professionals. It also has 25 professional staff
in Kathmandu. The Handicraft Emporium provides sales outlets for the output
of the cottage and village industries as well as raw materials. It has cur-
rently only six branches outside Kathmandu.
Sources of Finance
10.       Money lenders have traditionally been the major source of finance
for this sector though little is known about their operations. The Cottage
Industry Department has also provided term loans to this sector. In FY1975/
76, it disbursed Rs 3.7 million. It also spent Rs 1.3 million on buying
raw materials and machinery in bulk which was later sold on an installment
basis. Of the Rs 5 million made available by HMG to CID in FY76, almost
Rs 1.3 million was used to purchase foreign raw material and equipment.
CID's loans ranged in size from Rs 200 to Rs 25,000 with an average size
of Rs 2,000. However, CID's collection performance has been poor since out
of Rs 5 million due in FY75, only 20% was collected, though the arrears were
confined primarily to a few large borrowers.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       SIDC, which was part of NIDC until July 15, 1976, when it was trans-
ferred to the CID, was another source of finance. As of July 15, 1976 it had
approved 325 projects amounting to Rs 9.5 million of which it has disbursed
Rs 4.1 million. The average size of SIDC loans is Rs 30,000.
12.       In 1975, HMG decided to streamline the financing arrangements for
this sector by transferring all financing responsibility for cottage indus-
tries to the commercial banks. HMG believes that the banks with their large
number of branches (180 in 1976) are more accessible to cottage and village
industries than the CID or SIDC. As of FY76, the commercial banks have been
required by the Rastra Bank to provide 5% of their total deposits to village
and cottage industrialists as well as small scale agriculturalists. This
target was increased to 7% for FY77. 1/ The Rastra Bank has also introduced
a penalty if this target is not met - it will require the commercial banks to
deposit with the Rastra Bank at no interest the balance of the target figure
that has not been lent out. This 7% target seems unreasonably high as the
absorptive capacity of small-scale sector is small. The Rastra Bank has also
agreed to refinance the commercial bank loans to this sector. 2/ A Credit
Guarantee Corporation was also set up in 1975 to guarantee small-scale commer-
cial bank loans. This corporation will guarantee only 50-70% of the principle
amount of the loans. The amount of principle guaranteed depends on the type
of industry financed. The paid up capital of the corporation is Rs 3 million
and it is owned jointly by the two commercial banks and the Rastra Banr.-k.
13.       Conclusions.  HMG seems to be following a two pronged approach.
The first approach is to encourage self reliance in the remote parts of the
country by encouraging the establishment of new village and cottage indus-
tries and by encouraging the existing ones to increase their output. The
second approach is to encourage some cottage industries to expand their
market beyond the surrounding village and even to export part of their out-
put. In both approaches HMG wants to concentrate on extension services
through CID while the commercial banks provide the financing. HKG realizes
that additional services such as a bulk raw material purchasing scheme and
finished product marketing scheme are required. HMG is receiving assistance
from IDA (Technical Assistance Credit NEP-659) in the preparation of an
integrated cottage industries project in the Kathmandu Valley. This could
develop into a potential project for IDA financing.
1/   The CID and SIDC have stopped making new loans as of July 15, 1976.
2/   From July 16, 1976 the Rastra Bank will refinance working capital loans
at 12% and term loans at 6%. The commercial banks charge village and
cottage industries 14% and 10%, respectively. The intention behind the
better spread for term loans is probably to induce commercial banks to
make more long-term industrial loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The Tourism Sector
1.        General.  Nepal's magnificent landscape and rich cultural heritage
have been discovered by a growing number of visitors over the years making
tourism a major source of foreign exchange earnings. The number of tourists
arriving in Nepal reached 75,000, excluding Indians, in 1975 (Attachment 1).
Almost 55% of tourist arrivals in 1975 came from Europe, while North America
accounted for 21% (Attachment 2). The growth rate averaged 10% over the last
5 years and it is projected that over 130,000 tourists will arrive in Nepal
by 1980. This sector provides employment to 7,500 people and it is estimated
that the gross foreign exchange earnings in FY76 will reach $13.6 million, an
increase of 41% over FY75 (Attachment 3).
2.        HMG's Objectives and Policies.  HMG has defined the following
objectives with regard to the development of tourism:
(a) to preserve the country's historical, cultural and
geographical characteristics;
(b) to expand touristic areas outside the Kathmandu area;
(c) to lengthen the stay of tourists visiting Nepal; and
(d) to provide appropriate training to guides, hotel staff
and employees of tourist information centres.
3.        A tourism master plan was prepared in 1972 with German technical
assistance. The master plan had recognized the following main constraints on
the development of tourism in Nepal:
(a) the shortage of accommodation in Kathmandu and in the rest
of Nepal;
(b) the shortage of transportation both to Nepal and within the
country;
(c) the insufficient attention to the development of places of
interest outside the Kathmandu Valley; and
(d) the organizational structure of the Department of Tourism
and its shortage of staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The Present Situation.  HMG has set out to remove the first con-
straint and has encouraged the expansion of hotel accommodation. A large
number of licenses were issued and financing was available from NIDC which
eventually financed 31 hotels throughout Nepal. At present, there are 1,934
hotel beds in the Kathmandu Valley and it is expected that their number will
increase to 4,316 beds by 1978 (Attachment 4). In the past, HMG did not seem
to have given sufficient thought to capacity utilization by type of hotel when
issuing hotel licenses. For instance, Attachment 4 shows that the bed capa-
city rate in the 2-star hotels will increase from 707 at present to 1,357
beds by 1978. Although the break-even point for these hotels is low, it is
not expected, even if the predicted increase in number of visitors material-
izes, that the 2-star hotels will be profitable for sometime. A similar
situation exists for 3-star hotels. Attachment 5 shows that the average bed
occupancy rate for 2-star hotels in Kathmandu was 33% in 1975 compared to
35% in 1974, while 3-star hotels experienced an increase from 41% to 50% over
the same period. By contrast, 1-star hotel occupancy was 79% in 1975, while
5-star was 62%. Room occupancy rates are usually 20% above bed occupancy
rates. The average guest per hotel in Kathmandu in 1975 stayed 4.1 nights.
The poor performance of 2 and 3-star hotels is reflected in NIDC's portfolio
as these two categories account for most of its hotel arrears. The Bank Group
has also financed, through IFC, the expansion of the 5-star Soaltee Hotel and,
through IDA, the 5-star Yak and Yeti Hotel, both in Kathmandu. HMG has now
stopped issuing licenses for new hotels in the Kathmandu Valley.
5.        Attachment 6 shows that the hotel capacity outside Kathmandu will
increase from 697 beds at present to 911 beds. It is not known whether this
increase is sufficient as no occupancy figures are available.
6.        To improve the quality of the services provided by hotels, a Hotel
Management and Tourism Training Centre was established in 1972, with UNDP/
ILO assistance. Over 500 persons have been trained in this centre so far.
HMG is now seeking external financial assistance to improve the quality of
the training and to introduce higher level courses.
7.        In order to improve air transportation, since air transport accounts
for over 85% of tourist arrivals, the runway of Tribhuvan International Air-
port is currently being improved, and it is expected that, with the projected
expansion of the terminal complex, airline services can also be extended.
8.        In its efforts to open up other parts of the country for tourism,
HMG recently commissioned a study by the Pacific Asia Tourism Development
Authority (PATA) on the development of Pokhara as a tourism centre. IDA
has also been providing assistance with a similar study in the Khumbu region.
HMG is also seeking assistance for the preparation of feasibility studies for
the development of the Kali Gandaki Valley. Also, in view of the increasing
demand for tourist trekking accommodation 1/ (Attachment 7), HMG intends to
1/   Trekking arrivals increased from 590 in 1970/71 (1.2% of total) to 12,600
in 1974/75 (13.6 of total).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
construct a number of trekking lodges and campsites. It is expected that
NIDC will finance some of these trekking lodges and a few small hotels out-
side Kathmandu.
9.        The tourism master plan had recommended the upgrading of the Depart-
ment of Tourism and the creation of a separate Ministry of Tourism, responsible
for the formulation and implementation of tourism policies. The Department of
Tourism was criticized in the report for its organizational weaknesses and its
lack of authority in matters relating to tourism. It was also criticized for
its lack of staff. HMG has now created the new Ministry of Tourism, although
it is too soon to measure any effects.



ANNEX      3
Attachment 1
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
I/
Number of Visitors Arriving in Nepal-/
Year                     Total Number                        % Growth
1971                       49,914                              8.6
1972                       52,930                              6.0
1973                       68,047                             28.6
1974                       72,601 (17,237)                     6.7 (32.0)
1975                       74,559 (17,881)                     2.7 (2.9)
1/ The data for 1971 to 1973 include Indian visitors, while tivee for 1974-75
exclude Indian visitors - The number of Indian visitors arriving by air
are shown separately for 1974-75.



ANNEX       3
Attachment 2
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Tourist Arrivals by Major Nationalities 1971-1975 Numbers
1971      1972       1973       1974      1975
TOTAL ARRIVALS e             49914      52930      68047      72601     74559
USA                         15114      16127      16704     15114      13551
Canada                       1474       1733       1923       2047      1998
Mexico                         229       197        242        331       302
North America                16817      18057      18869      17492     15851
Denmark                       1313       1190       1200       1663      1158
France                        5159       5349       8118       7927      8662
Germany                       5133       5889       8519       9704      9431
Italy                         1670       1695       3073      2995       3638
Netherlands                    1253      1034        992       1611      1706
UK                            5575       5877       6565       7685      8346
Other E C                       659       766       1284       1226      1519
E C                          20762      21800      29751      32811     34460
Austria                         618       548       1096       1674      1551
Spain                           259       265        590        854      1027
Switzerland                   1606       1781       2644       2941      2754
Sweden                         862       1116       1040       1525      1239
Sub-Total                     3345       3710       5370       6994      6571
Japan                          2903      3589       5719       5362      5921
Australia                      2643      2495       3432       4377      5296
New Zealand                     601       549        703       1012      1268
Sub-Total                      6147      6633       9854      10751     12485
Others                         2843      2730       4203       4553      5192
x All figures exclude arrivals from India
Source: Department of Tourism



ANNEX      3
Attachment 3
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Gross Foreign Exchange Earnings from Tourism in Nepal
Fiscal Year                     US$                        % Growth
1971/72                    2,180,000                      + 32%
1972/73                    5,153,000                      +136%
1973/74                    9,079,000                      + 76%
1974/75                    9,692,000                      +  7%
1975/76                   13,650,000                      + 41%



Present and Future Capacity of Hotels
in the Kathmandu Valley
Present Capacity        Under Construction         Capacity in 1978
Star Category        No. of Hotels          Rooms        Beds       Rooms          Beds        Rooms         Beds
5                  1                 111           216        183            366         294          588
4                  4                  172          334        319            550         461          898
3                  6                 190           372        293            586         558         1108
2                 16                 380           707       325             650         705         1357
1                  7                 163           305         30             60         193          365
TOTAL                           1016         1934       1150            2212        2211         4316
>._
D t
n X
rt



Monthly Bed Occupancy Rates
for Hotels in the Kathmandu Valley
Star
Category    Year    Jan.       Feb.    Mar.      Apr.    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.          Oct.     Nov.      Dec.    Average
5         1974      -        -        -        -        -       38       52        69      60        83       85        69       65
1975      73       61       82       71      61       36       43       62      48         82       59       70        62
4         1974      -        -        -        -        -       25       39        54      37        72       77        66       53
1975      72       59       73       60      51       31       38        55     37         69       81        63       57
3         1974      -        -        -        -        -       22       21        29      25        63       70        57       41
1975      58       42       71       47      33       31       51        48      44        68       58        51       50
2         1974      -        -        -        -        -       10       29        28      13        52       68        46       35
1975      18       42       51       25      12       14        6        21      21        54       61       46        31
1         1974      -        -        -        -        -       61       60        55      59        79       73        74       66
1975      57       66       86       88      90       68       74        83      10       112      108      111        79
I, 
r s.



ANNEX      3
Attac'hment A
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Present and Future Hotel Capacity Outside the Kathmandu Valley
Present Capacity  Under Construction
Location                    No. of Hotels-    Rooms    Beds       Rooms   Beds
Pokhara, Gandaki
Zone                             7              128      258        15      30
Chitawan District
Narayani Zone                    1               22       44        -       -
Parsa District
Narayani Zone                    3               32      135        -       -
Makawanpur district
Narayani Zone                    1               15       30        -       -
Snangboche, Sagarmatha
Zone                             1               12       24        -       -
Surkhat District, Bheri
Zone                             1               12       24        -       -
Janakpur, Janakpur
Zone                             2               19       42        22      40
Jamsour, Bhaulagiri
Zone                             1               -        -          8      20
Helambu, Bagmati Zone              1                6       16         -      -
Biratnagar, Koshi Zone             3               34       92        34      92
Bhairawa, Lumbini Zone             1               16       32        16      32
Total                      22              296     697         95    214
1/ Hotels outside the Kathmandu Valley are not star rated.



ANNEX      3
Attachment 7
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1/
NEPAL - Arrivals by purpose of visits 1971-1975
1971      1972       1973       1974      1975
Pleasure                      45687      49176      62555      67748     70124
Trekking and mountaineering    590         613       1565     11710      12587
Business                       1245       1099       1258       3896      4911
Official                        1704      1699       2244       3707      4227
Other                            688       343        425       2777       591
Total                         49914      52930      68047      89838     92440
Pleasure                        91.5      92.9       91.9       75.4      75.9
Trekking and mountaineering    1.2         1.2        2.3       13.0      13.6
Business                         2.5       2.1        1.9        4.4       5.3
Official                         3.4       3.2        3.3        4.1       4.6
Other                            1.4       0.6        0.6        3.1       0.6
Total                         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
1/ 1974 and 1975 figures include arrivals from India.
Source: Department of Tourism.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Summary of Industrial Policy Statement of 1974
1.        The industrial policy statement of 1974 contains policies, proce-
dures, regulations and incentives and defines the role of the private sector.
Industry is defined broadly and embraces manufacturing, mining, power, as-
sembling and all types of service industries (tourism, recreation, transport,
construction, etc.) HMG distinguishes the following categories of industry
according to size of fixed assets 1/:
-    Village and Cottage industry not more than Rs 200,000.
-    Small industry between Rs 200,000 and Rs 1 million.
-    Medium industry between Rs 1 million and Rs 5 million.
-    Large industry more than Rs 5 million.
2.        The policy statement specifies that power and defence industries
are reserved for 100% ownership by the public sector. The iron and steel,
chemicals, petroleum and cement industries are also reserved for' the public
sector but the private sector may participate up to 49% in the share capital.
The policy statement also lists a number of other industries in which HMG
requires a majority shareholding including cotton, textile, medicine, dairy
products, vegetable ghee, and writing and printing paper. This requirement
was abandoned in June 1976. In all other sectors, private participation
may reach 100%.
3.        HMG provides generous investment incentives.  The table below
contains a summary of income tax holidays.
1/   Fixed assets cover (a) investments in land, building, machinery and
equipment; and (b) pre-investment expenditure and pre-production ex-
penditure.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Additional
Capital Investment in             Minimum    Exemption based         Maximum
Manufacturing and Tourism /a   Exemption    on Employment  /b   Exemption
(years)          (years)
Rs 200,000 to Rs 1 million           5             1-3                   8
Rs 1 million to Rs 2.5 million       6             1-3                   9
Rs 2.5 million to Rs 10 million    7               1-3                  10
Rs 10 million to Rs 40 million       8             1-3                 11
More than Rs 40 million              9             1-3                  12
/a   Recently incentives for new hotels in the Kathmandu Valley were eli-
minated.
/b   Depending on how many workers are used, extra tax holidays are granted.
4.        Tax holidays for basic industries with a capital investment of
more than Rs 50 million are 15 years, whereas they can go up to 20 years
for mineral-based industries with a capital investment of more than Rs 250
million. Tax holidays for industries whose products are largely consumed
in the country, though they depend mostly on imported raw materials, as well
as for cold storages and national film production are lower (1 year) for the
indicated categories in the above table.
5.        The tax holidays mentioned above are adjusted for certain geo-
graphic districts, to reduce regional imbalances in Nepal. A correction
of 2 years is made on investment in the most developed regions of Nepal
(Kathmandu Valley, Biratnagar, and Birganj), whereas extra tax holidays of
between one and two years are granted for the least developed areas of Nepal.
6.        HMG also grants other privileges to the least developed areas of
Nepal. These include lower interest rates (1-2%) and higher loan facilities
from NIDC (5-12%) 1/. These concessions may encroach on NIDC's autonomy
(main report, para 5.07). The above-mentioned tax and other concessions are
probably necessary at the current early stage of industrialization in Nepal,
but they should be reviewed in due time so as not to establish industries
which have no long-run economic viability when incentives are eliminated.
7.        Tax incentives also exist for industries which undertake moderni-
zation and expansion of at least 25% of the rated capacity. The customs
duties for most industries are only 1% for imported machines, equipment,
spare parts and electric goods. Custom duties for imported raw materials
are also low (0-15%).  HMG also has concessionary rates for excise duties for
certain types of industries.
1/   Entrepreneurs can obtain the following financing from NIDC as % of
fixed assets; between 70% and 80% depending on type of undertaking
for region A (Kathmandu Valley, Biratnagar and Birganj); and between
75% and 95% for the other, least developed, regions of Nepal.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        The Industrial Policy Statement also specifies time limits for
granting licenses from the date of application at the Department of Indus-
tries. They are almost 30 days for small industry, 60 days for medium in-
dustry and 90 days for large industry. Furthermore, time limits are given
in this Policy Statement for the disbursement of funds to the applicants
once the project has been approved by NIDC. They vary from 1 to 6 months
depending on the size of the project. These policies also encroach on
NIDC's autonomy and may be against its interest (para 5.07).



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The Industrial Services Center
General
1.        The UNIDO report of the Industrial Advisory Mission to Nepal in
1971 recommended the establishment of an Industrial Services Center with the
objective of consolidating in one place all aspects of industrial develop-
ment (except financing). This recommendation was not immediately acceptable
to HMG because of disagreement regarding the logical set-up for such an insti-
tution. However, in 1974 an Industrial Services Center was formed with the
required financing provided from UNDP and HMG. The board of ISC (Attachment
1) is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, Department of Cottage Industries, Tribhuvan Uni-
versity and NIDC. ISC's original nucleus of staff came from NIDC with the
transfer of its Industrial Planning and Feasibility Division.
Organization
2.        ISC is managed by the executive chairman Mr. Ajit Thapa who is
assisted by a UNDP advisor, Mr. Pearson. It is divided into four divisions
(Attachment 2).
The Industrial Promotion, Planning and Feasibility Studies Division
3.        This division has three branches - the promotion branch, which so
far has mainly been concerned with arranging seminars on industry in Nepal.
The feasibility study branch has carried out approximately 25 studies. This
branch has only four permanent staff members so it has had to make use of
staff from other departments and outside consultants. The planning branch
also has four staff members; its main function is to provide advice to
HMG on industrial strategy. It has carried out about 5 industrial identi-
fication studies and is currently working on an import substitution study.
It is too early (ISC started only in 1974) to judge about the quality of
the studies, but preliminary indications are that ISC has difficulties in
collecting sound data.
The Industrial Extension Services Division
4.        This division is composed of three branches.  The project engineer-
ring branch (4 staff members) has had so far little demand for its service. The
management consultancy branch (4 staff members) has carried out several assign-
ments, mainly for government controlled corporations. The training branch



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(2 staff members) has arranged several training programs. Attendance at
these training sessions has mainly been from the public sector companies.
The Industrial Districts Coordination Division
5.        This division supervises six industrial districts of which only
the Balaju industrial district is operating at breakeven, the remainder at
a loss.
The Administration and Finance Division
6.        This division's main responsibility is to provide administrative
support services to the other divisions and management of the center's fi-
nancial affairs.
Conclusions
7.        There are currently several weaknesses in ISC.  The main weak-
nesses is the shortage of experienced and well qualified staff, though
other institutions face the same problem in Nepal. When this weakness is
coupled with the large number of diverse responsibilities that ISC has been
given, it leads to the neglect of important areas. The main problem is,
consequently, that ISC has not been able to do enough industrial promotion
work particularly through the preparation of feasibility studies for the
private sector as ISC tends to give preference to public sector projects.
This could affect the number of projects that eventually are submitted
to NIDC.



ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Industrial Services Center
Board of Directors
Name                                       Principal Position
Mr. Ajit N.S. Thapa                       Executive Chairman of ISC
Mr. B. Gopal                              Undersecretary, Ministry of Finance
Mr. G.L. Rajbhandari                      Acting Joint Secretary, Ministry of
Industry and Commerce
Mr. D.P. Gautam                           Director-General, Department of Cottage
Industry.
Dr. U.B. Pradhanang                       Dean, Institute of Business Administration,
Tribhuvan University
Mr. Tej B. Prasai                         General Manager, NIDC



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION OF INDUSTRIAL SERVICES CENTRE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION,             INDUSTRIAL EXTENSION             INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS               ADMINISTRATION AND
PLANNING AND FEASIBILITY          SERVICES DIVISION                COORDINATION DIVISION              FINANCE DIVISION
STUDY DIVISION
1         |  PROJECT ENGINEERING               BALAJU
7    PROMOTION BRANCH    j  -|___B RANCH                           INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
MANAGEMENT                     BUTWAL
PLANNING BRANCH                    CONSULTANCY                    INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
FEASIBILITY STUDY    1         MANAGEMENT TRAINING                DHARAN
BRANCH             J            BRANCH                            INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
HETANDA
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
NEPALGANJ
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
POKHARA
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE   |n 
rt
World Bank--16764



ANNEX C
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Composition of Licensing Board
State Minister of Industry and Commerce         -   Chairman
Secretary, Ministry of Industry and Commerce  -   Member
Secretary, Ministry of Finance                  -   Member
Secretary, National Planning Commission         -   Member
Governor, Nepal Rastra Bank                     -   Member
Director General, Industry Department           -   Member and Secretary
General Manager, NIDC                           -   Special Invitee
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 7
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Applications and Licences Issued and Breakdown by Type of Industry
1972/73       1973/74       1974/75       1975/76
Applications received           180           267           186           206
Licences Issued                  75           135            87           112
Agro based industry            3,(40%)    56(41%)        27(31%)       36(32%)
Forest based industry           3(42)       3(2%)         2(2%)         4(4%)
Mining based industry            _          6(5%)                       2(2%)
General manufacturing          20(27%)   21(18%)         24(28%)       23(20%)
Tourist based industry         16(21%)   42(31%)         23(26%)       17(15%)
Miscellaneous                              4(3%)         11(13%)       30(27%)
Capital investment for
licenced projects
(Rs Millions)                68.35        296.84         44.67        702.87
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 8
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Sources of Mediuta and Lorg-term Funds for Industry
A)     In the Public Sector                                    (Rs Million)
1972/73       1973/74        1974/75
HMG                                      4.9          73.3            84 (est)
Foreign aid (grants and loans)          36.4          43.4             26.5
Total                                   41.3         116.7           110.5
B)    In the Private Sector
N.I.D.C.                                16.0            28.5           51.2
N.I.D.C.'s Clients                      14.8            24.0           45.0
Total                                   30.8           52.5           96.2
1/   This list is based on a disbursement basis, it is not complete because
of the lack of data in Nepal. The commercial banks are not included because
most of their loans are for working capital and they have only been
making long-term loans recently.
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 9
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Commercial Banks
Deposit Rates
Effective July
Effective up to,/ Effective up to        1976 - February    Effective from
April 28, 1975 -   July 16, 1976               1977           February 1977
Current deposits              0                     0                    0                   0
Savings deposits              6-1/2                 8                    8                   8
Fixed deposits
3 months                  4                     4                    4                   4
6 months                  4                    10                   10                   9
1 year                    3-1/2                15                   14                 12
2 years and above         9-3/4                16                   15                 13
1/ The rates effective up to April 28, 1975 used different time period, for instance
a different fixed deposit interest rate was used for each year up to 5 years.
March 31, 1977



ANNEX 10
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Commercial Banks
Loan Rates
Effective up to      Effective from
1.   Industrial Loans                          July 16, 1976       July 16, 1976
A.    For Fixed Capital
1/
Cottage and Village industries-          15                  10
Basic Industries, Export
Substituting Industries,
Export Promoting industries
and Forest Based industries              15                  11
Luxury Goods industries                  15                  16
B.    For Working Capital                      15                   142/
2.   Agricultural Loan
A.    For Fixed Capital
Cardamon plantations,
Horticulture and tea and cotton
cultivation                              15                   8
Livestock, Poultry, Fishery, and
Bee farming                              15                  11
Other agricultural loans                 15                  14
B.    For Working Capital                      15                   14
3.   Service Sector                                 15                   14
4.   Export Bill                                     15                  12
5.   Loans against HMG bonds.                        15                  14
6.   Loans against fixed deposits                    15                  20% above
deposit rates
3/
7.   Others                                          18                  18
8.   Overdue loans                                    -                  20% above
specified rate.
1/   Having fixed assets less than Rs 200,000.
WI   Reduced to 10% in February 1977 for loans to cottage industries.
3/   Commercial banks can charge a higher rate than that specified. The minimum rate
was reduced to 16% in February 1977.
March 31, 1977



ANNEX
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Commercial Banks Balance Sheets (FY74-FY76)
(Rs Millions)
Mid July        Mid July        Mid June
1974            1975            1976
Liabilities
-    Total depositi                      859.2          1,029.6         1,403.7
(a)  Demand                        290.2            340.4            439.2
(b)  Fixed                         411.9            516.8            777.5
(c)  Savings                       157.1            172.4            187.0
-    BorrQwings from Rastra Bank         151.0            368.9            20.4
-    Foreign Liabilities                  22.9            107.6           150.0
-    Other Sources                       247.6            317.9           422.6
Total                                 1,280.7           1,824.0         1,996.7
Assets
Cash,                                     92.7            151.5           168.3
Foreign Assets                           209.2            238.8           322.2
Loans and advances                       865.2          1,294X7         1,283.6
(a)  To Government                  98.3            100.4            100.2
(b)  To Government enterprises    84.5              405.3           439.7
(c)  To private sector             682.4            789.0            743.7
Other Uses                               113.6            139.0           222.6
Total                                 1,280.7           1,824.0         1,996.7
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 12
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1/
Board of Directors
Name                                Principal Position
Mr. I.L. Shrestha             -    Acting Secretary, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce (Chairman) 2/
Mr. U.S. Thapa                -    Deputy Governor, Nepal Rastra Bank and ex
General Manager of NIDC
Dr. Pandey                   -    Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance, HMG
Mr. J.L. Maskay               -    Joint Secretary, Economic Planning Commission
Mr. J.B. Lama                _    Chairman, Biratnagar, Jute Mills Ltd.
Mr. H.P. Giri                -    President, Federation of Nepalese Chamber of
Commerce and Industry
Mr. Tej B. Prasai             -    General Manager, NIDC
1/ The HMG directors' tenure of office is not specified whereas the private
sector representatives hold office for 2 years. There are also two
invitees to the board - Mr. Satyal, Director General, Department of
Industry and Commerce, and Mr. Ajit Thapa, Chairman, Industrial Services
Centre.
2/ Ex-Officio Chairman.
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 13
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Composition of Staff
No. of Staff Members as of July 15        1973      1974      1975      1976
Professional
uommerce uraduates                    27        27        24        28
Engineers                              22        22       18        16
Financial Analysts                     16        16        15       20
Others (Masters and Graduate of
Law and General Arts)                 6         6        6         8
71       71        63        72
Non Professionals                          95        87        87        53
Total                                     166       158       150       125
Changes in No. of Professional Staff
1973     1974      1975      1976
No. at beginning of fiscal year            73        71        71        63
New recruits during the year                -         -         -        25
Departure during the year                   2         -         8        16
No. at the end of fiscal year              71        71        63        72
December 17, 1976



NIDC'S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE /
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|   GEN ERAL            _
|   MANAGER  
GN ERAL MANAGER                                                                                             UAN  ER
D VISION                ON5OADMINISOERAION
|    CHIEF  l   l    CHIEF  l                                                    |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIEF             CHE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAADIN.                                                                                                                         INVETMERNAL         REEROJCH     
PROMOTIONI                                           EASTERN              W  'ESTERN           W  YESTERN         AC OU T                                                      AUDI &X   PLANNING
DIVISIRO                                REGN                 RI                 DIOJ
BRANCH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAC                                                                        BRANCH
MARKET                        AGRO
l                  1ANALIS   _   MINERAL
BFRANCH                   _ EFJECT
FINVETMNCILFOET
ANALYSOION                       MINERtAL 
BRANCH                    _ PF OJECTS                                                                                                                                                                           1
BRANCH
J/ InpeetdF.blu.,, 1977                                                                                                                                                                     Wlorid B.nk-1B7B2



ANNEX 15
Page l
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1/
Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
The Nepal Industrial Development Corporation, whose objective is
to promote private enterprise in Nepal, will be guided by the following
policies:
I.   Scope and Nature of Operations:
(1) NIDC will invest in manufacturing and processing industries
and tourism.
(2) NIDC will finance private companies only.
(3) NIDC will finance new enterprises and also the expansion
and modernization of existing companies.
(4) In its operations, NIDC will be guided by the Government's
National Economic Plan. Industries in the plan will be
promoted on a priority basis.
(5) NIDC will assist private enterprise by providing:
(a) Medium and long-term loans;
(b) Equity participation;
(c) Guarantees;
(d) Technical and Managerial advice.
II. Operational Policy
(1) NIDC will only finance projects which appear upon careful
investigation to be financially and economically sound and
technically well conceived.
(2) NIDC will not finance enterprises whose fixed capital in-
vestment is less than Rs 200,000 (with the exception of
trekking lodges).
l/ The Statement was officially approved by the NIDC Board of Directors on
April 7, 1977.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(3) The minimum financing (debt plus equity) that NIDC will
provide is Rs 50,000.
(4) The use of NIDC's loan financing is to be limited to in-
vestments in fixed assets and permanent working capital.
(5) NIDC, within the guidelines established by the Rastra Bank,
will set its interest rates to maintain a reasonable spread
and reflect the cost of capital.
(6) NIDC will set the maturity of its loans on the basis of the
debt service capacity of its clients, but will not exceed
15 years.
(7) NIDC will normally limit itself to finance a maximum of
70% of the total project cost.
(8) NIDC will encourage joint financing with foreign partners
in industries that require advanced technology.
(9) To broaden the industrial ownership in the country, NIDC
will seek to sell its equity investments to the extent
possible.
III. Financial Prudence
(1) NIDC will require its borrowers to provide adequate col-
lateral and to keep records in accordance with sound
accounting procedures. NIDC will have the right to
inspect the enterprises it finances.
(2) NIDC will not bear the exchange risk on loans repayable
in a foreign currency.
(3) NIDC's debt will not exceed five times its share capital
and reserves.
(4) NIDC would acquire or retain more than 50% ownership
in any manufacturing enterprise, only in exceptional
circumstances.
(5) The total equity investments of NIDC should not at any
time exceed its paid-up share capital and reserves.
(6) The total commitment of NIDC to any single enterprise,
in all forms including Equity, Loans and Guarantees shall
not normally exceed 25% of its share capital and reserves.
(7) NIDC will diversify its portfolio to maintain a reasonable
level of risk.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
IV. Accounting and Auditing
NIDC will maintain accounting records which adequately reflect its
business operations and results in accordance with generally accepted account-
ing principles.
V.   Profits and Their Distribution
NIDC will seek to develop earnings sufficient to cover expenses
and taxes, to provide reserves adequate to the size and risk of its portfolio.
A minimum of 25% of net profits after tax will be added to the reserves.



ANNEX 16
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Number and Value of Loan Requests and Approvals
(Rs '000)
1972/73 1973/74   1974/75  1975/76-
Requests
No. of loan applications          258       91        26       26
Amount                        101,512  87,644   392,925  41,149
Approved
No. of Loans Approved              84      51         54      18
Amount                         40,877  57,286   147,207  15,965
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 17
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Time and Cost Overruns for 14 ?roiects Completed Durng
FiscAl YeAr 1975/76
Time Overruns-I                         Cost Overruns-/
3 - 6 Months            5                0- 25%                 8
6 - 12 Months           2                25% - 50%              4
1 - 2 years             6                50% and Over           2
2 + Years               1                                       -
14                                      14
1/   This is the extra time taken to complete the project when compared to
the estimates prepared at the project appraisal stage.
2/   This is the percentage increase in the project's total cost as compared
to its original estimated cost. This increase could be due to time
delays, inflation or poor estimation of project cost at the appraisal
stage.
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 18
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Procurement of Imported Plant yd
Machinery by Source and Amount-
(Rs '000)
Year of Project    No. of
Approval         Projects  India    Germany   Japan   Denmark ,.-U.K.   Others  Total
1973/74               25      7,785    7,464       -         -        -     1,349   16,598
1974/75               40     20,977   24,016      472      2,216    293        18   47,992
1975/76                7      4,036       -       165        -        -        -      4,201
32,798   31,480      637     2,216    293    1,367   68,791
1/   These figures do not represent the procurement that has actually taken
place; it shows the proposed procurement source and amounts that were
proposed at the project approval stage.
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 19
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The Evaluation and Progress Division's
Follow-Up Activities
1974/75    1975/76
No. of follow up visits                70         65
No. of evaluation reports
carried out                         10          3
No. of study reports carried
out                                  1          -
No. of evaluation-/
questionnaires answered              -         26
1/   A simple evaluation questionnaire was introduced in 1976.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION
1/
Summary of Operations
Rs '000
Loans
Local-/        Foreign                         Equity
Year ending July 15                currency       currency        Total    No    Investment  No         Guarantees        Total  No
Gross approvals
1971                         17,342          14,929         32,271   46       9,076       3            -             41,347   49
1972                         14,863           7,773         22,636   78         -                      -             22,636   78
1973                         17,274          23,603         40,877   84       3,544       4            -             44,421   88
1974                         34,845          22,441         57,286   51       2,270       2            -             59,556   53
1975                        107,841          39,366        147,207   54       9,365       6            -            156,572   60
1976                         10,940           5,026         15,966   24         700       3            -             16,666   27
Net approvals
1971                          4,003           3,309          7,312   26       7,076       2             -            14,388   28
1972                         12,904           3,180         16,084   47         -                      -             16,084   46
1973                          8,873          19,102         27,975   47       3,544       4             -            31,519   51
1974                         22,650          18,118         40,768   27       2,270       2            -             43,038   29
1975                        105,641          39,366        145,007   51       9,365       6             -           154,372   57
1976                         10,891           5,026         15,917   24         700       3             -            16,617   27
Disbursements
1971                          7,734           4,300         12,034              725                                  12,759
1972                          7,248             432          7,680            6,284                                  13,964
1973                         12,814             651         13,465            2,563                                  16,028
1974                         17,483           5,626         23,109            5,436                                  28,545
1975                         39,287          14,490         53,777            3,900                                  57,677
1976                         25,466          11,077         36,543            6,805                                  43,348
Outstanding
1971                         42,660           9,318         5199783/          5,341                4,107             61,426
1972                         42,150           8,992         51,142-/         11,625                4,364             67,131
1973                         47,581           9,318         56,899-/         13,808                4,877             75,584
1974                         56,692          17,640         74 3321/         19,244                4,077             97,653
1975                         97,416          24,861        122,277-          21,245                1,110            144,632
1976                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3/
1976                        113,244          30,100        143,344 /.        28,050                1,950            173,344
N
1/  Not including SIDC's operations.
2/  Includes Nepalese currency converted into Indian rupees.
3/  These figures differ from those shown in Balance Sheets since latter include accrued interest and SIDC's portfolio.
December 17, 1976.



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Industry-wide distribution of loans outstanding 1971-1976
Rs '000
Year ending July 15
Type of Industry                              1971              1972              1973            1974             1975            1976
Hotels and Tourism                             29.7             36.2              32.0            31.9             33.7             37.1
Transportation                                12.6              14.2              12.8             8.3              4.1              1.8
Power                                           8.6              7.4               5.5             3.7              2.3              1.9
Manufacturing                                  48.5             41.6              49.1            54.3             58.4             57.6
Cement                                      7.9               8.0             17.6             2T T             19.1
Food                                       20.7              19.1              20.0            18.0             23.6            28.3
of which sugar                            (13.3)            (12.1)            (10.7)          ( 8.3)           ( 4.9)           ( 0.2)
Brewery                                     4.1               4.2               3.5             1.9              0.9              0.7
Textiles (including jute)                   5.7               1.9               0.4             0.3              3.9              4.7
Saw milling & wood products                 2.4               2.7               2.6             2.3              1.7              1.5
Straw Board                                 1.1               0.7               0.3             0.2              0.1              _
Printing & publishing                       1.7               1.0               0.5             0.2              0.3              0.2
Chemicals                                   2.2               1.4               0.3             3.6              4.4              2.3
Stone products                              0.6               0.5               0.6             0.2              0.3              0.6
Light machinery                             1.3               1.1               1.9             2.9              1.9              3.6
Icemaking & cold storage                    0.8               1.0               1.4             3.3              2.2              1.7
Miscellaneous                                   0.6              0.6               0.6              1.8              1.5             1.6
Total                                100.0            100.0             100.0            100.0            100.0           100.0
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMNT CORPORATION
Analysis of Loan Approval by Size, Maturity, Nature of Projects and Geographical Spread
(p.. '000)
Year ending T,u                      1970                     1971                    1972                     1973                    1974                     1975                     1976
Size of Loan                 No.   Amount       %    No.   Amount        %    No.   Amount       *   No.   Amount         %    No.   Amount       %    No.   Amount        %    No.   Amount        %
Under Rs. 200000            37      3405     17.3   18        1695    23.2   33       2900    18.0   26        2890    10.3     6        717      1.7   10      1400     0.9      7       654     411
Ra. 200000 to 500000        10      3520     17.9     5       1973    26.9     7      1948    12.2   14       4866    17.3    11        3648     8.9    6       2226     1.5      8      2771    17.4
Above  s. 500000             5    12789      64.3      3      3644    49.9     7     11236    69.8      7     20219    72.4    10      36403    89.1l  35    141381    97.6       9     U492    78.5
52     19714    100 0    26      7312   100.0   47       16084   100.0   47      27975   100.0   27        40768   100.0  51    145007   100. 0    24      15917   100.0
Maturity of Loans
5 to 7 years                41      4122     20.9   20        3313    45.3   36       3812    23.7   29        4180    14.9     8       2189      5.3    2       292      0.2    12      3579    22.4
7 to 10 years                4      2282     11.5      5       975    13.3     5      1516     9.5      7      2618     9.3     7       1486      3.7  24      15631    10.7      9      3703    23.3
10 to 15 years               7     13310     67.6     1       3024    41.4     6     10756    66.8   11       21177    75.8   12       37093    91.0  25    129084    89.1        3      8635    54.3
52     19714    100.0   26       7312   100.0   47       16084   100.0   47      27975   100.0   27        40768   100.0   51    145007   100.0   24        15917   100.0
Nature of Project
New                         48     13635     69.2    17       3433    46.9   32      13714    85.2   36       26109    93.3    26       37724    92.5   49    100162    69.0    15      13392    84.2
Expansion                    4      6079     30.8     9       3879    53.1   15       2370    14.8   11        1886     6.7     1        3044     7.5    2     44845    31.0      9      2525    15.8
52     19714    100.0   26       7312   100.0   47       16084   100.0   47      27975   100.0   27        4076    100O.0   51    145007   100.0   24      15917   100.0
aeographical Spread
1. Bagnati                  28     L5888     80.5   10        4306    58.8   18      10259    63.8   14        7515    26.8     8      27125    66.5  25       93157    64.2    10       7678    48.2
2. Narayani                 14      1949      9.8      3       151     2.1    13      2726    16.9      8     14719    52.8     2        6078    14.9    4       7896     5.4     1       275      1.8
3. Janakpur                  -       -        -        -                                                                        2         448     1.0    3      6934      4.8     1       626      3.9
4. Sagarmatha                1       500      2.6      -       -       -       1       135      0.9     3       880     3.2      1        766     1.9    -        -        -      -         -       -
5. Noshi                     5       811      4.3      3       198     2.7     5      1234      7.7   11       2277     8.0     7        4409    10.8    7      19008    13.2     2        111     0.7
6. Gandaki                   3       338      1.7      4      1273    17.4     8       884      5.5     4       963     3.6      -        -       -      2       1403     1.0     -         -       -
7. Lumbini                   1       228      1.1     5       1134    15.5     1       717      4.4     2       305     1.0     2         453     1.2    4      11888     8.2     2       277      1.8
8. Bheri                     -        -        -      1        250     3.5     -         -       -      -        -       -       -         -       -     2       2041     1.5     2       3186    20.0
9. Mahakali                                    -       -        -       -      1       129      0.8     2       230     0.8      -         -       -      -       -        -      1        350     2.2
10. Mecbi                                       -       -        -       -      -         -       -      3      1086     3.1      5       1119     2:7    2       1604     1.1     4       3125    19.6
11. Seti                                         -      -        -       -      -         -       -      -        -       -       1        370     1.0     -       -        -       -       -        -
12. Dhaulagiri                                  -       -        -       -      -         -       -      -        -       -       -         -       -      1       350     0.1      -       -        -
13. Rapti                              _        _       _        _                                                                                        - 1      726     0.5      1       289     1.8
52     19714    100.0    2o      7312   100.0   47       16084   100.o    47      27975   100.0    27       40768   100.0   51    145007   100.0   24        15917  100.0
DeCember 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Equity portfolio as of July 15, 1976
Rx '000
Z of NIDC's
Year of          RIDC'8      NIDC's             % of               Total
Type of                    NIDC;s first    Par           Shareholding       NIDC's            Equity
Company                             Activity                    investment       Value        Cost               Shareholding      Portfolio
A. Ordinary Shares
(a) Companies operating          Mechanical Workshop             1963         1199            899              66.98              3.16
profitably.                  Sawmill                        1963           600            600               8.71              2.11
Pharmaceuticals                1973           700            700              11.04              2.46
Hotel                           1976         4100           4100              25.18             14.42
(b) Companies under             Livestock                       1973         4300            4300              86.03            15.13
construction or in          Cheuri Ghee                     1975          150             150              50.00             0.53
initial operating
Steel Billet                   1976           501            501              50.60              1.76
stage.
Agriculture Lime                1976          200             200             22.22              0.70
(c) Companies operating         Wool                            1963          119             119              39.66             0.42
at a loss.                  Workshop                        1963          200             200              25.67             0.70
Power Generation                1967           81              81              1.91              0.28
Cotton Textile                 1971          1000           1000              33.33              3.52
Cement                          1966        11000          11000              70.58             38.70
Plywood                         1973         2000            2000             33.33              7.04
B. Preference Shares               Cement                          1966         2576            2576             100.00              9.06
Total equity portfolio                                              28726           28426                              lOO.OO
De2eraber 17, 1976



ANNEX 24
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Main terms and conditions
After April 1975
but before July            After July
Lending rates                                 1976                     1976
I.   1.  Cottage industries                          10%                  Lending discontinued
2.  Basic Industries                           14%                       WI/
3.  Luxury goods industries                    16%                      14%
4.  Tourismn industries                        12%                      llZ
II.       Guaranlee fee                                                     1.5% - 2-1/2%
III.       Peualty fees for overdues over                                        2%
six months
IV.       Interest rebate for timely payments                                   0.25%
V.       Comnitiaent fee                                                       0.2%
VI.       Foreign exchange rate is carried by the Rastra Bank; all loans are made in local
currency.
1/ On a regional basis, the following adjustments are made to the interest rate: - 1% in
the least developed areas of Nepal; + 1% in the Kathmandu Valley, Biratnagar,and
Birganj. The 1L1% interest rate for basic industries applies to Bhadrapur, Rajbiraj,
Janakpur, Bhairawa, Butwal, Hetauda, and Dharan.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION               ANNEX 25
Statement of Resource Position as of July 15, 1976
A. Domeatic and Inconvertible Currencies                            NRS Million
a) Nepalese currency
Equity
Share capital                                              .139.3
Reserves and Retained Earnings                                3.9
.Rastra Bank Loan                                                 6.0
149.2
b) Borrowings in Indian currency (less cancellations
and repayments
Two USAID loans                                                   19.4
One US EXIM Bank Loan                                              1.9
One Government of India Loan                                       8.2
29.5
Total domestic and inconvertible currencies
resources                                                 178.7
Less:  Loans outstanding                                         118.7
Equity investments                                         28.0
Other long-term investments and fixed assets               14.2
Sub-total                                                 160.9
Resources available for disbursement                              17.8
Less: Undisbursed commitments                                     62.1
Resources available for commitments                             - 44.3  1/
B. Foreign Currency
Borrowings and lines of credit (less cancellations and
repayments)
Three KFW lines of credit                                         25.4
Two USAID lines of credit                                          1.1
One UK line of credit                                              0.9
One Danish Government line of credit                              16.1  2/
One Japan EXIM Bank line of credit                                11.9
Total foreign currency resources                          55.4
Less:  Foreign currency loans outstanding                         30.1
Resources available for disbursement                              25.3
Less:  Undisbursed commitments                                    34.4
Resources available for commitments                            -  9.1   3/
1/ NIDC has access to Rastra Bank borrowings to an amount of Rs 90 million
2/  The size of the original Danish Government line of credit was Rs 30.5
million, but as NIDC could not use the whole credit, Rs 14.4 million was
transferred to the Government-owned Dairy Corporation.
3/  HMG has made foreign exchange available to NIDC if and when needed.
HKG has allocated about RSlO.0 million foreign exchange to NIDC for 1977.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Details on foreign borrowings up to July 15. 1976
Interest
Date of       Amount          Repayment  Period  rate paid  Free               Restriction
Source                                     Agreement     approved(net)  Total        Grace   by NIaC    lidit             on procure_mt   Remarks
(Years)    (Years)  (1)
Inconvertible Currency (Indian Rupees)                                                                                                      1)  All inconvertible currency loans are repaid in Nepalese Rup.ee.
USAID
3rd loan (367-D-004)                   Dec. 1963    $  1,000,000        15         2 1/2    5         $  100,000      Tied to India    2)  4 1/2 of 5% interest repaid to NIDC for non-revenue producing
activities.  This applies to both loans.
4th loan (367-D-006)                   Apr.  1966    S  2,000,000       15         2 1/2    5         $  100,000       India and Nepal
Export-Import Bank (USA)                   July  1960    $  1,000,000      15         3        4         $   50,000       India and 15epal
Governmnt of India                         Sept. 1964    IC 7,000,000      15         -         5        Prior appro-    India  nd dNO
val required
Convertible Currency
USAID
lst loan (DLF 152)                     June  1961    $    269,000       15         2 1/2    5         $   50,000       Tied              3)  Original amunt loan $ 400,000; $131,000 cancelled.
2nd loan (367-H-003)                   Dec. 1963    $    150,000        15         2 1/2    5         $  100,000       Tied              4)  original amot loan $ 1,000,000; $ 850,000 ccelled.
lot loan                               Feb.  1964    DM 2,000,000       15         2 1/2    5         Prior            Untied
approval
2nd loan                               June  1966    DM 2,000,000       25         7 1/2    5         - ditto -        Untied            5) 2% and 3 3/4Z interest refunded to NDC e  the s.com   and
third loan for non-bankn  services.
3rd loan                               Aug. 1974    DM 3,000,000        25         7 1/2    4 1/2    - ditto -         Untied
UK Government                              Amended 1965  h    143,000       25        -         5        Not applica-    Tied               6)  Original amount loan h 150,000; h 7000 cancelled.
ble
Export-Import Bank (Japan)                 Dec. 1970    Yen343,000,000   12           2         5        Prior            Tied              7)  Original amount loan Yen 360 million; Yen 17 million canalled.
approval
Danish Government                          June  1973    DKr 5,900,000   35          10         0        - ditto -        Tied              8)  Original amount DKr 11.1 million; DKr 5.2  illion vm  transferred
to the Government-owned Dairy Corporation.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Income Statements  1971-1976 (Year ending July 15)
Rs '000
Audited                                            Unaudited
1971            1972             1973            1974           1975            1976
Income
Interest on loans                            3082             3538             3644            4162           7249)           9504)
Guarantee fee                                   89              75               75              75               )                )
Dividends                                       45              40                -             181             75             428
Interest on deposits                            25              88             1003            1334            820               74
Other income                                    42              37               29             156            528            1309
3283            3778             4751            5908           8672           11315
Expenses
Administrative expenses                        1554            1678             2379            3466           3186             3310
Financial expenses                             1821            1959             1913            1959           1945             2121
perating income                                -92             141              459             483           3541             5884
S on operating income                           500             526              633             594             400             370
Non operating expenses                          120             460              243              -            1795             1300
Net Profits before Tax                          288             207              849            1077            2146            4954
Tax provision                                   144              99              367             761           1273             3385
Net Profits                                     144             108              482             316             873            1569
Ratios
1.  Net Profits/average equity                                 0.2%             0.5%            0.3%            0.7%            1.1%
2.  Profit before Tax/average total assets                     0.2%             0.6             0.7%           1.1%             2.3%
3.  Profit after Tax/average total assets                      0.1%             0.3%            0.2%            0.7%            0.7%
4.  Gross Income/average total assets                          3.5%             3.4%            3.6%            4.6%            5.3%
5.  Administrative Expenses/average total assets               1.3%             1.7%            2.1%            1.7%            1.6%
6.  Financial Cost/average total assets                        1.8%             1.4%            1.2%            1.0%            1.0%
7.  Gross Income on loans/average loan portfolio               6.4%             6.2%            6.1%            7.3%            7.5Z
P
December 17, 1976



IIEPtl INtUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Comparative Operational Ratios
Unaudited
FY 1972      FY 1973       FY 1974       FY 1975         FY 1976
A.  Ratios of Profitability
1.  Profit before Tax as % of average                      0.2          0.6            0.7           1.1            2.3
total assets
2.  Profit after Tax as % of average                       0.1          0.3            0.2           0.7             0.7
total assets
3.  Profits after Tax as % of average                      0.2          0.5            0.3           0.7            1.1
equity
B. Ratios of Capital Structure
4.  Current ratio                                          9.6         23.0           10.7           3.4             2.0
5.  Debt to equity ratio                                   0.5          0.4            0.4           0.4             0.5
C. Average Rate of Growth
6.  Average annual rate of growth of                      50.8         13.7           18.1          12.5           11.4
total assets (%)M
D. Financial Margins
7.  Income from term loans as % of                         6.4          6.2            6.1           7.3             7.5
average loan portfolio
8.  Cost of term debt as % of average                      5.0           4.9           4.8           4.1             3.6
term debt
9.  Dividends as % of average equity                       0.5            -            1.1           0.4             1.7
portfolio
E. Expenses
10.  Financial costs as % of average                         1.8          1.4           1.2           1.0             1.0
total assets
11.  Administrative costs as % of average                    1.3          1.7           2.1           1.7             1.6
total assets
F. Reserves
12.  Reserves for bad debt as % of loan and                  1.9          2.7           2.4           1.4             2.0
equity portfolio
G. Dividends
13.  Dividend payout as % net earnings                                     -           31.7             -            13.6
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Balance Sheets 1971-1976 (Year ending July 15)
Rs '000
Audited                                                Unaudited
1971            1972            1973            1974             1975            1976
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash & bank                                6,477          42,047         49,273          48,732           18,964           9,028
Keceivables & advances                     3,389           5,333          7,183          11,560           13,415          18,375
Total current assets                          9,866          47,380         56,456           60,292          32,379          27,403
Loans and investments: Loans                 56,179          55,605         62,057           79,364         130,896         154,689
equity               5,341          11,625          13,808          19,244          21,245           28,050
industrial districts                8,813            9,611          9,611           9,611           9,611            9,611
long-term securities                  5C0              500            500             500              500           2,762
Fixed assets (net)                            1,708           1,774          1,789            1,912           1,950            1,920
Other assets (guarantees)                     4,347           4,365          4,621            4,877           1,110            1,950
86,754         130,860        148,842         175,800          197,691         226,385
LIABILITIES                                                                                                                      200)
3,385)
Current liabilities                           3,030           4,928          2,460            5,639           9,572           10,287)
Term debt                                    39,956          39,048         39,183           42,052          53,222           63,952
Other liabilities (guarantees)                4,347           4,364           4,621           4,877           1,110            1,950
47,333          48,340         46,264          52,568           63,904          79,774
Equity:   Paid-up capital                    34,422          42,429         42,429           99,267         119,267          134,267
Advances for shares                3,007           37,500         56,838          20,000           10,000           5,000
Reserves                           1,992            2,591          3,311           3,965            4,520           7,344
Total equity                      39,421           82,520        102,578         123,232          133,787         146,611
Total Liabilities of Equity                  86,754         130,860        148,842          175,800         197,691          226,385
Ratios
1.  Current ratio                                              9.6             23.0            10.7             3.4             2.0
2.  Long-term debt/equity                                      0.5              0.4             0.4             0.4             0.5
3.  Total assets growth                                       50.8%            13.7%           18.1%           12.5%           11.4%
4.  Loan portfolio growth                                    - 1.0%            11.6%           27.9%           64.9%           18.2%
December 17, 19'6



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Trends in arrears, 1973-1976
(Rs. Millions)
(1)           (2)           (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)        (7)               (8)         (9)            (10)            (11)           (12)
Total                                     Principal       Interest       Principal
principals'                                in arrears    in arrears    & interest
Principal   Interest    interest in                                  over six       over six        over six
No. of        Total        % of         in arrears  in arrears  arrears           All prin-   All inte-   months as          months as      months as
Total loans   companies    number of   companies   over six    over six    over six               cipal in    rest in        % of  loans   % of loans    % of loans
As of July li   outstanding   in arrears   companies   (2) - (3)   months 1/   months jI   months                  arrears      arrears       outstanding   outstanding   outstanding
1973           56.9           96           165          58.2         14.0        3.25         17.25             16.0         3.8            24.6           5.7            30.3
1974           74.3          114           177          64.4         16.6        2.35         18.95             19.1         2.8            22.3           2.3            24.6
1975         122.2           116           181          64.1         14.2        2.90          17.10            16.7         3.4            11.6            2.4           14.0
1976         143.3           108           192          56.2         11.9        4.6          16.5              14.4         5.6             8.3            3.2           11.5
Notes   A)  Total amount of loans outstanding
affected by projects in arrears for
over one year as of July 1976 Rs 22.4 million
This is 16% of loans outstanding.
B) In the first half of 1976,7 cases have
been rescheduled, but they are
included in the arrearsanalysis.
1/ Estimated.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Arrears Analysis by region and industry
As of July 15, 1976
All arrears (principal only)
Industrywise       industrywise
1/             1/            1/!            1/             1/     arrears             loan portfolio
Region         Region        Region         Region        Region         di.stribution      Aisq--ibution
Industry                               A              B             C               D            All                %                  %
1.  Hotels                           2531348        137509        696095            x           3364952            23.0               37.1
2.  Cement                           1313081          x             x               x           1313081             9.1               14.0
3.  Transport                        1391674        219262        151238            x           1762174            12.2                1.8
S 'aw Milling & Wood Products    789746             478555         21825          78125         1366251             8.2                1.5
5.  Printing & Publishing               x             x               x             x              x                 x                 0.2
6.  Chemicals                           x             x               x             x              x                 x                 2.3
7.  Sugar                               x             x              x          268543           268543             1.9                0.2
8.  Brewery                          140625           x               x             x            140625             1.0                0.6
9.  Food other than sugar            130621           x           922489          177394        1230504             3.5               28.0
IC.  Cold Storage & Ice Plants    1448612             26476        112939            x           1588027            11.0                1.7
11.  Textile                           25524           x               x             x             25524             0.7                0.2
12.  Miscellaneous                   1632765         526634        500124          718750        3378273            23.4               12.4
9403996        1388436       2404710        1242812        14439954           100%               100%
1/   Region A   -   Kathmandu Valley, Biratwagar , Birganj
Region B   -   Bhadrapur, Rajbiraj, Janakpur, Bhairawa, Butwal
Region C   -   The remaining area of the Tarai Region
IKeCion D   -   The remaining area of the Hilly Region
December 17, 1976



ANNEX 32
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1/
NIDC's Proposed Strategy for 1977-1979
I.   Business Policy
(a) As the only major source for long-term industrial finance in Nepal,
NIDC would continue to confine itself to the financing of only those industries
in the private sector.
(b) NIDC's overall lending activities would continue to be guided by the
priorities as outlined in HMG's Industrial Policy of 1974 which includes the
objectives:
(i) to improve the balance of payments by resorting to
financing export oriented and economically efficient
import substitution industries;
(ii) to create more industrial labor opportunities;
(iii) to assist in the modernization, balancing and expan-
sion of viable industries particularly those based on
local raw materials;
(iv) to minimize regional economic imbalance through financing
of economically viable industrial projects;
(v) to develop the local construction industry.
(c) In the field of tourism, NIDC would restrict its hotel financing to
the area outside Kathmandu, and in particular would promote trekking lodges in
relatively remote areas.
II. Organization
NIDC will seek to implement the consolidation of its organization to
enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities more efficiently parti-
cularly with respect to the quality and timeliness of its appraisal and follow-
up work.
III. Management and Staff
NIDC will seek to strengthen its management structure through:
1/ This Strategy Paper was officially approved by the NIDC Board of Directors
on April 7, 1977.



ANNEX 32
Page 2
(a) permitting greater continuity in the tenure of General
Manager;
(b) through the appointment of an additional Deputy General
Manager; and
(c) through provision of adequate training.
NIDC will also seek to strengthen its staff through the hiring of additional
qualified accountants, economists and technical personnel.
IV. Appraisal Standards
A.   NIDC will take steps to increase the quality of its appraisal
reports particulary in the areas of market and economic analysis.
B.   It will pay special attention to capacity utilization within an
already existing industry before financing new undertakings.
V.   Implementation and Follow-up
(a) NIDC will put greater emphasis on management of its portfolio. To
achieve this goal, it will group project implementation, supervision and
follow-up activities in one department. The department will be staffed with
a sufficient number of qualified staff so that problems during project con-
struction as well as implementation can be quickly detected and rectified.
NIDC will ensure that staff will visit its clients at least once a year and
projects in arrears over 6 months at least 2 times a year, and will make
greater efforts to implement its present client reporting system.
(b) NIDC will review with special care badly performing industries and
make suggestions to the Board and Management to take appropriate action when
clients have repayment difficulties.
VI. Financial Planning and Control
(a) NIDC will, with the assistance of an accounting and information sys-
tem advisor, by technical assistance, substantially improve its financial re-
cording, planning and control functions so as to have timely detailed data
available for decision making. NIDC will take steps to ensure a better coor-
dination between the finance and accounts divisions.
(b) NIDC will expand its resource and business planning period beyond
the 1-year limit to include full five-year forecasts. NIDC will ensure that
sufficient funds are available before client commitments are made for local
as well as foreign resources. NIDC will endeavor to diversify its sources
of funds for both local and foreign currencies. Since NIDC has a large equity
base, substantial scope exists for attracting loan funds.



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements 1977-1981 (Year ending July 15)
(Rs in Millions)
1975       1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981
---           -------------------- projected -------------------------
APPROVALS
Local currency loans           50.01        5.01/        12.9          29.4         35.0          40.0          46.0
Indian currency loans          55.6- 5-.9_               58.4         34.2          40.0          46.0          53.0
Other foreign currency loans  39.4          5.0           5.0          27.3         30.0          34.0          39.0
Sub Total       145.0        15.9          76.3          90.9        105.0         120.0         138.0
Equity investments              9.4         0.7           -            20.0         15.0          15.0          15.0
Total           154.4        16.6          76.3         110.9         120.0        135.0         153.0
COMMITMENTS
Local currency loans           41.0        16.2          10.8          25.7          33.6         38.8          44.5
Indian currency loans          43.01/      18.31/        45.2          39.8         38.6          44.5          51.3
Other foreign currency loans  33.8         13.5           2.6          21.8          29.3         33.0           37.8
Sub Total       117.8        48.0          58.6          87.3         101.5         116.3         133.6
Equity investments              7.1         0.7           -             5.0          15.0          15.0          15.0
Total           124.9 1      48.71/        58.6          92.3         116.5         131.3         148.6
DISBURSEMENTS
Local currency loans           19.3        12.0          21.0          18.45         34.4          39.0          45.0
Indian currency loans          20.0-       13.51/        17.4          49.55         45.7          53.0          61.0
Other foreign currency loans  14.5         11.1          26.1          21.3          27.5          32.0          37.0
Sub Total        53.8        36.6          64.5          89.3         107.6         124.0         143.0
Equity investments              3.9         6.8           8.6          15.0          15.0          15.0          15.0
Total             57.7       43.4          73.1         104.3         122.6         139.0         158.0
1/ Estimated
December 17, 1976,



ANNEX 34
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Tentative new project pipeline- for 1977-1979
(Rs Million)
Loans                       % Distribution
Agro-based projects                        Local         Indian         Foreign
2  Flour Mills                              1.50          1.50           5.00
5  Rice Mills                               2.75          2.75            -
1  Vegetable Ghee plant                      -           20.00            -
1  Starch Glucose plant                     4.00         20.00            -
8.25         44.25           5.00                35.3
Forest based projects
1  Mini paper plant                         3.00         25.00            -
1  Wood preparation plant                   1.00          2.00            -
1  Wood seasoning plant                      -            1.20            -
1  Furniture plant                                        1.00            -
1 Sal seedoil plant                          -            4.50            -
4.00         33.70            -                  23.2
General consumer goods
1  Soft drinks plant                         -             -             4.00
1  Soap plant                               2.50           -             2.50
1  Beer plant                               5.00           -             8.50
7.50           -            15.00                13.8
Miscellaneous
1  Insecticides project                     2.50           -             2.50
10 Small projects (workshops,
repair shops etc.)                       6.00          6.00           8.00
8.50          6.00          10.50                15.4
Hotels
3  Small hotels outside Kathmandu          10.00           -            10.00                12.3
Total requirements                         38.25         83.95          40.50               100.00
Total Requirements 1977 - 1979
Loans:
Local currency                               Rs  38.25
Indian currency                              Rs  83.95
Foreign currency                             Rs  40.50
Rs 162.70
Equity:
Local currency                               Rs  30.00
2/
Total                                                 Rs 192.70-
1/  This list is meant to give only an indication of the type of projects NIDC will likely
finance in tne future.  Note that this list includes only projects not yet approved
(as of July 15, 1976)
ZL  Tne average size of the projects financed by NIDC (including equity) will be about
Rs 6 mfllion or I S,nnnnn as against "s ? million in the past two years.
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELCOPENT CORPORATION
Pro,jected Income Statement 19/7-1981 (Year ending July 15)
(Rs in Millions)
1977             1978              1979            1980             1981
--------------------- projected  --------------------- ----- 
Income
Interest                                                  13.3              19.7              29.5             41.2             55.6
Dividends                                                  0.7                1.0              1.3              1.6              1.9
Miscellaneous                                              0.7                1.0              1.3              1.6              2.0
Cost of Finance                                                3.7                8.9             17.1             26.6             37.3
Administration Cost                                            3.9                4.5               5.2             6.0              6.9
Net Profits before Tax and provisions                          7.1                8.3               9.8            11.8             15.3
Provision doubtful loans                                       1.8                2.4               2.9             3.3              3.7
Tax                                                            3.5                4.0               4.6             5.6              7.5
Net Profits after tax                                          1.8                1.9               2.3              2.9             4.1
Dividend payout                                             0.2                0.2               0.2             0.2              0.2
Retained Earnings                                           1.6                1.7               2.1             2.7              3.9
Ratios
1.  Net Profits after tax/average equity                       1.3%               1.3%              1.5%            1.9%             2.8%
2.  Profits before tax/average total assets                    2.7%               2.4%              2.2%            2.1%             2.2%
3.  Profits after tax/average total assets                     0.7%               0.6%              0.5%            0.5%             0.6%
4.  Gross income/average total assets                          5.7%               6.4%              7.2%             7.8%            8.4%
5.  Administrative expenses/average total assets               1.5%               1.3%              1.2%            1.1%             1.0%
6.  Financial cost/average total assets                        1.4%               2.6%              3.8%            4.7%             5.3%
7.  Gross income on loans/average loan portfolio               7.8%               8.3%              9.2%            9.8%            10.4%
8.  Financial cost/average loan portfolio                      2.1%               3.6%              5.1%             6.1%            6.7%
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Comparative Operational RaLiOS
~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ---  cFjictnd - -
FY 1977      FY 1978       FY 1979       FY 1980       FY 1981
A. Ratios of Profitability
1.  Profit before Tax as % of average                   2.7           2.4           2.2           2.1           2.2
total assets
2.  Profit after Tax as % of average                    0.7           0.6           0.5           0.5           0.6
total assets
3.  Pr6fits after Tax as % of average                   1.3           1.3           1.5           1.9           2.8
equity
B. Ratios of Capital Structure
4.  Current ratio                                       2.9           4.4           3.4           3.5           3.9
5.  Debt to equity ratio                                0.8           1.4           2.1           3.0            3.9
C. Average Rate of Growth
6.  Average annual rate of growth of                   28.6          34.3          29.5          25.7          23.2
total assets (%)
D. Financial Margins
7.  Income from term loans as % of                      7.8           8.3           9.2           9.8          10.4
average loan portfolio
8.  Cost of term debt as % of average                   4.1           5.5           6.5            7.0           7.3
term debt
9.  Dividends as % of average equity                    2.1           2.2           2.2           2.2            2.2
portfolio
E. Expenses
10.  Financial costs as % of average                     1.4           2.6           3.8            4.7           5.3
tptal assets
11.  Administrative costs as % of average                1.5           1.3           1.2           1.1            1.0
total assets
F.  Reserves
12.  Reserves for bad debt as % of loan and              2.1           2.2           2.3            2.4           2.4
equity portfolio
G. Dividends
13.  Dividend payout as % of net earnings               11.1          10.5           8.7            6.9           4.9
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Cashflows Statement (Year ending July 15)
(Rs in Millions)
1977            1978              1979            1980            1981
------------------------- projected ------------------ 
Sources of Funds
Profits before Tax and Provisions                            7.1              8.3              9.8            1.1.8           15.3
Depreciation                                                 0.2              0.2              0.2             042             0.2
Loan collections                                             6.6              9.0             12.0            15.0            19.0
Borrowings Rastra Bank                                      32.3             66.3             80.6            64.0            79.0
Receipts sale of industrial districts and workshops          9.6              -                -               -               -
Drawings from foreign borrowers                             20.0             20.0             20.0            50.0            50.0
HMG equity                                                  10.0               -                -              -               -
HMG loans                                                     -              10.0             10.0            10.0            10.0
Sale of equity                                                                                                 -               5.0
85.8           113.8            132.6            151.0           178.5
===l,=, .~~~~~~~~~~~ =====               === ===========se=== =  ==
Uses of funds
Disbursements                                               64.5             89.3            107.6           124.0           143.0
Equity participation                                         8.6             15.0             15.0            15.0            15.0
Increase accounts receivables                                5.3              6.9              8.9            10.3            11.1
Tax payment (last year)                                      3.4              3.5              4.0             4.6             5.6
Dividend (last year)                                         0.2              0.2              0.2             0.2             0.2
Foreign loan repaymen_.                                      1.0              1.0              1.0             1.0             1.0
83. 0          115.9             136.7           155.1           175.9
=====S==e= ====,====   ==mS~=-ass                   e        S =  . __ = 
Cash balance  beginning year                                 8.6             11.4              9-3             5-2             1 1
end year                                    11.4              9.3               5-2             1.1             3.7
December 17, 1976



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATI.01'
PrX ected Balance Sheet 1977-1981 (Year ending July 15)
(Rs in Million)
1976             1977             1978           1979            1980            1981
Unaudited          ---                       projected --------------------------------
ASSETS
Cash and Bank                                    8.6             11.4               9.3            5.2              1.1            3.7
Peceivables and Advances                        24.3             29.6              36.5           45.4            55.7            66-8
Equity investments                              28.4             37.0              52.0           67.0            82.0            92.0
Outstanding loans                              148.8            206.7             287.0          382.6           491.6           615;6
Industrial districts                             9.6 
Guarantee deposits and securities                2.8              ?.28              2.8            2.8              2.8            2.8
Net fixed assets                                 1.9              1.7               1.5            1.3              1.1            0.9
Other assets (guarantees)                        2.0              2.0               2.0            2.0              2.0            2.0
Total                                  226.4            291.2              391.1          506.3           636.3          783.8
LIABILITIES OF EQUITY
Current Liabilities                             10.3             10.3              10.3           10.3             10.3           10.3
Term  debt                                      63.9            115.2             210.5          320.1            443.1          581.1
Tax provision                                    3.4              3.5               4.0            4,6              5.6            7.5
Dividendi provision                              0.2              0.2               0.2            0.2              0.2            0.2
Other liabilities                                2.0              2.0               2.0             2.0             2.0            2.0
Equity
Paid-up capital                           139.3             149.3             149.3          149.3           149.3          149.3
Reserve doubtful loans                       3.4              5.2               7.6           10.5             13.8           17.3
Other reserves                               3.9              5.5               7.2            9.3             12.0           15.9
Total                                226.4            291.2              391.1          506.3           636.3          783.6
RATIOS
1.  Long-term debt/equity                                         0.8               1.4             2.1              3.0           3.9
2.  Total assets growth  (%)                                     28.6%             34.3%          29.5%             25.7Z         23.2%
3.  Loan portfolio growth  (%)                                   38.9%             38.9%          33.3%             28.5%         25.2%
4.  Reserve for doubtful loans as Z of                            2.5%              2.6%            2.7%             2.8%          2.8%
loan portfolio
December 17, 1976
co



ANNEX 39
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(Millions)
Amount US $            X
1977     October - December                               0.2                 5
1978     January - March                                  0.4                10
April - June                                     0.6               15
July - September                                 0.6               15
October - December                               0.6               15
1979     January - March                                  0.3                 7.5
April - June                                     0.3                 7.5
July - September                                0.2                 5.0
October - December                               0.2                5.0
1980     January - March                                  0.1                 2.5
April - June                                     0.1                2.5
July - September                                 0.1                 2.5
October - December                               0.1                 2.5
1981     January - March                                  0.1                 2.5
April - June                                     0.1                 2.5
Total                                      $4.0              100.0
December 17, 1976






-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR  14 
Z   ==@ =. ';  j  !:,tV . ':", 0 !9 :"e-,;-'W     t!;  ;;    :::;'  tu,,,  , .*, :0 ;     ,  %1S BDI4
3~~~~~~~SS2=t=@f==,=.        =.  ,=zi$i|I
;;. jlW;'0eSl<{;6<2g2W$ !{zz ;;$ 1t{{;A;     0a 
;|ri8gg|0t:F \<  W;, ,   <tt;;t/ < SiSg+2tjfflSWi =t >X!f;  t                         tRhg    = nfr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3 ' * ffi ;!g;;J;dj   =   rf   ,   u  sOT  gg@,  ;;g  it; = * {5iff"2-> g 5'; g ';:5i;;<- ; t 2::iZc g;<, > tsw i; i 2~~~~~~~~~~JE
|;~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                            i '73A>LSI            u;1f   i,s 0  4-='p= g 
;\; \    \  <   A    vGARt   ;    O   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   <   ,}  ,jX    g   i   N   q   ea   B   25   e  SJ  ;JiSf  X J 81 pg t if i22 E 2 2 NijX 2;@D I f 0 w ; :I: i X P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
0 TEW % L Jr~~~~~~~SweRKHE,   s!_;;;T Wpi;i   :@j2   !z0|;  
SaZ ;> caNAJOM3o MLBrlArH $yX> >;= = tEE ;Dg=g > 
w s   M IKT(<N  AN.!   nE= 4   E:49. 2  5; i ;; aWz 50 
i5 iAPE  D4KLtfe-_hALVN 1  ~  \!  g-;;;;  tl ,0=*  - fNA
0  2 -r GlG zR   d    WALPwM                            lMG0(LIONt   OHAR        BEl<H;N>N  ;fUUNDN  1   f 0W    f8@0                                 $       z V   POKH;itLA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  -8i  ;f fi;j*X.OGOA]@R  AA   AG      QIWq{  
S f f4;E  ("S X H          1g       W~  $AVW -Ol                 O          W            AMAISOGTH^/Z          F H4RCE  |EPALGYA- 
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S    E0<t    PI   ~  ULN<~t\-HSSAIE /Otr3::
3v #~~~ Z AB;DUltiTllN AL~~~~~LI8AW FStNGRH   O!    /SE d 
;  ;        8   l X i S  B                 llW                                    SG 4   t                    DUL KHEL         / THO8E ! NG    <                PLEJL NG !X~~~HA
0   \   w   1:   iR   :-  X  ]  l|iDA  g  . w = n . MX   IStNDULII n iDIPJR ;} rFRATHU X 43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA
WS i B IE S 9 D E S DHU S O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGUNITA N)M8Tk--- 
= 4 u e.= <<- >10 t9rL 4: L__ ff % < b % t~~~~~~~~~~~~
g   gm0    {U;;u zD   =,=  <i  g:;S   .3w><k 81s  I y 
Seo   -" SRI LANKA                                                   !              aA  L       ;  2  ;                                  t!                1           ;Cl;;2          ;F] {;
A ;!tTt,   >W-S.TA 1,Nt l  gj  ;.    ,qf0'\\t0!h



