CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 705 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(NIDC Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 27, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1977, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Nepal Industrial
Development Corporation (hereinafter called NIDC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to NIDC the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
NIDC.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NIDC" means Nepal Industrial Development Corporation,
a body corporate established by the Act (as hereinafter defined);
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NIDC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and NIDC pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by NIDC out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
NIDC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project, and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) of
this Agreement;
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a
sub-loan made or proposed to be made by NIDC out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to NIDC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
NIDC proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise stilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(h) "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(j) "Act" means the Nepal Industrial Development
Corporation Act 2016 (1959) of the Borrower, as amended by the
NIDC (Amendment) Act 2019 (1962) and the NIDC (Amendment) Act
2021 (1964);


﻿-4-
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of
Investment and Operational Policies approved by the Board of
Directors of NIDC on April 7, 1977; and
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by NIDC or by any one or
more subsidiaries of NIDC or by NIDC and one or more of its
subsidiaries.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates NIDC as its
representative for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account,
by NIDC, on behalf of the Borrower, for amounts expended by NIDC
for an Investment Project or, if the Association shall so agree,
for amounts to be expended by NIDC for an Investment Project, to
finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and services
required under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however,
that: (i) no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or
investment unless (A) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Association, or (B) the sub-loan shall be a
free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account; and (ii) except as


﻿- 6 -
otherwise agreed between the Association and NIDC, the amount to
be withdrawn in respect of any one Investment Project shall not
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $80,000 equivalent,
when added to any other amount or amounts financed or proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such Investment
Project, and not repaid, the foregoing amount being subject to
change from time to ti.;e as determined by the Association in
consultation with the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Association and NIDC shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Association's approval, or in respect of an investment, if
such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or
investment the application and information required by Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan,
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981, or
such later d--te as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending
March 15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one' per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpL.., of the Credit is to assist NIDC in
financing Guch productive facilities and resources in Nepal as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country.
The Project consists in the financing of specific development
projects through loans to and investments in private enterprises
in Nepal, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of NIDC.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to NIDC uncer a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NIDC under terms and conditions
which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its agencies or instrumentalities to take, any action which
would prevent or materially interfere with the performance by NIDC
of any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the


﻿- 9 -
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action which shall be required on its part in order to
enable NIDC to perform such obligations.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, in connection with NIDC's obligations
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all such measures as are necessary to ensure that NIDC
suffers no loss on account of fluctuations in the rates of exchange
of the currencies used in NIDC's borrowing and lending operations.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditiona the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NIDC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of NIDC under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or NIDC shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NIDC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or that the Borrower or
NIDC will be able to perform their respective obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to NIDC
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) NIDC shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by NIDC
or by others whereby any of the property of NIDC shall or may be
distributed among its creditors;


﻿- 11 -
(f) a change shall have been made in the Act which will
materially ari adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of NIDC;
(g) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of NIDC, or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(h) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by NIDC, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of NIDC's
business or NIDC's financial situation or the efficiency of
NIDC's management and personnel or the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f),
(g) or (h) of Section 4.01 shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)
or (i) of Section 4.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of NIDC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and NIDC, respectively, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) NIDC has appointed the advisors referred to in paragraphs
(i) and (ii) of Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of that Section.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NIDC, and is legally binding upon NIDC in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NIDC, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and NIDC in accordance with
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 27, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addrerses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (-ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ P.B. Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditicis
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (f) of Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Association in respect of any portion of
the Credit, or having been so received, shall have been
denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right


﻿- 17 -
of the Borrower or its designated representative to submit
such ap-lications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(4) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(5) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.


