Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8153
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1153-SU)
NOVEMBER 3, 1989
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



you OyIcw  us oNLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
oUt. Ed o.e.tw.GIflSiI
OpIftll Evaua
November 3, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TOE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sudan - Second
Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1153-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Sudan - Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1153-SU)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
is document has a rstricted disibutiO and my be usd byd.iPistts Ofnly In the perfoamau |
orter official dutles. Its contents MaY not otherwise be disclosed withOt World Bank authoriatiofi



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1153-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
Preface  ....         .................................................                      i
Evaluation Summary  ............................................                            ii
PART I       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity ..........................                                         1
B.    Project Objectives and Description  ...................                           1
Background  ....          ..................................              1
Project Objectives  ..................................                    I
Project Components  .............          .................              1
Project Design and Organization  .......   # .........                    2
Project Implementation  .....              .....................          2
Project Results  .... ............................. ..                    2
Project Sustainability  .....              .....................          3
Bank Performance  ..             ..............................           3
Borrower Performance  ............................                        3
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Project Timetable  ....................................                           5
2.    Credit Disbursements  ........... ......................                          5
3.    Status of Covenants  .......              ...........................             5
4.    Use of Bank Resources  ...              .............................             5
5.    Supervision Missions  . .................. .                  ....  ....          6
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1153-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Second Technical
Assistance Project in Sudan, for which Credit 1153-SU in the amount of SDR
4.9 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) was approved on May 28, 1981. The
credit was closed on March 1, 1987, two years behind schedule. The
undisbursed amount of SDR 870,410.50 was cancelled after the closing date.
This PCR was prepared by the Eastern Africa Department of the
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Stmmary, Parts I and III).
Since this project was closed more than two years ago, the borrower was not
requested to submit Part I1.
It is based on data available in the IDA project files.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1153-SU)
EVALUATION SUIW ARY
Introduction
During 1978-80 the Government of Sudan requested the World Bank
and the INF to assist it in overcoming a serious balance of payments
crisis. The Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II) was designed to
finance the technical assistance requirements of the recovery program
which was designed to address that crisis.
Project Obiectives
The project was intended to improve the Government's ability to
process, select and implement development projects by establishing
project preparation and evaluation units, and financing project
feasibility studies; to alleviate a shortage of accountants by
establishing a special accountancy training program; and to improve
central government procurement operations and the control and monitoring
of data collection and debt management through technical assistance,
training and equipment to appropriate government agencies and offices
(paras 2, 3 and 4).
Implementation Experience
The project took almost six years to implement compared to the
origi.ally planned three. Results varied considerably between the
diver ie project components. An effective projection preparation unit was
established, as was an Institute of Accounting Studies. However, no
progress was made in improving the government's central purchasing,
project evaluation, debt management or statistical capability. A large
number of project feasibility studies were sarried out (paras 5 and 6).
Project Impact and Sustainability
The collapse of the economic reform program precluded the
achievement of the project's broadest objective. However, the project
did have a sustained impact through the establishment of an effective
project preparation unit and an accounting training facility, and the
project feasibility studies helped to improve project selection (paras.
7, 8 and 9).
Main Lessons
A project of this kind is extremely staff-intensive to design
and to implement (para. 10).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 11S3-SU)
PART I
A. Prolect Identity
Project Names  Second Technical Assistance Project
Credit Not    1153-SU
Regions        East Africa
Countrys       Sudan
Sectors        Multi-Sectoral
Amount:        SDR 4.9 million (USS 6.0 million equivalent)
B.  Proiect Objectives and Description
1.       Backgrounds During 1978-80 the World Bank and the IMF attempted
to assist Sudan to overcome a severe balance of payments crisis caused by
a decline in the international prices of Sudan's export crops, a decline
in the output of those crops due to mismanagement, and a sharp rise in
debt service payments caused by substantial borrowing in the 1970s for
poorly conceived projects.  The Second Technical Assistance Project
(TA.II) was conceived as a means of providing financing for assisting the
Government to fulfill several key functions which were essential to the
recovery program designed with Bank and Fund assistance, including
improved selection of investment projects and Government procurement,
statistical reporting and debt management.
2.       Proiect Obiectivess  Specifically, the project was intended to
be a three year program of assistance to accomplish the followingt
a) Increase the benefits of development projects by improving
Government's ability to screen and coordinate preinvestment activities
and to prepare priority projects in the public investment program that
could be considered for financing by the World Bank Group and other
external financing agencies; b) Alleviate one of the major constraints in
Sudan's development effort -- shortage of adequately trained bookkeepers
and accountants -- through a special accountancy training program; c)
Facilitate project implementation in all sectors through the provision of
special assistance for tendering and procurement to the Ministry of
Finance's Department of Purchasing; and d) Improve control and monitoring
of Sudan's macroeconomic performance through provision of technical
assistance for debt management and for data collection and processing
(national accounts).
3.       Protect ComDonents included the followingt
(a) Prolect Prelaration (US$4.0 million): (i) About 30-man-years of
consultant services for a variety of project preparation and



planning tasks; and (ii) five seminars and six fellowships for
the planning staff in the Project Preparation Unit (PPU).
(b) Proiect Implementation (US$1.65 million)s (i) About seven man-
years of expatriate services of which five man-years (two
accounting experts) would strengthen the Institute of Accounting
Studies in the Ministry of Finance; two man-years (a tendering
and procurement advisor) would strengthen the Department of
Purchasing in the Ministry of Finance; six man-weeks of
Consultant service to study the possible establishment of an
effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism within the Office
of National Planning; and (ii) Training, to provide 12 man-years
of fellowships for future teachers of the Institute of
Accounting Studies; and six weeks of overseas training for the
Department of Purchasing.
(c) Macroeconomic Management (US$350,000): (i) About 27 man-months
of internationally recruited advisory/training support of wLich
nine man-months (a debt management advisor) would strengthen the
Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance and 18 man-
months (a national accounts statistics advisor) would strengthen
the Department of Statistics in the Ministry of Planning; and
(ii) Six weeks of overseas training for the DMU.
(d) Provision of equipment, furniture, teaching materials and
vehi.cles to support the above activities.
4.       Project Desian and Organizatior..  While there was a central
concept on which the project was conceived (support for the Government's
recovery program), the project included a number of diverse elements only
loosely related to each other organizationally and functionally. A
number of these elements were small in size, and received minimal project
support which was only partially designed prior to implementation.
5.       Proiect Implementation was slower than anticipated, taking
almost six years instead of the originally planned three. The delays
were the result of declining performance in the Sudanese civil service
generally, changes of Sudaneve officials at senior levels which reduced
commitment to the reform program, and the usual delays in Sudan
associated with procurement of services and the establishment of new
institutions and procedures. Cooperation on the Sudanese side was good,
especially in regard to project feasibility work.
6.       Proiect Results varied considerably among the various
components:
(a) The Proiect Prevaration component was implemented
satisfactorily, with nany relevant feasibility studies carried
out during the life of the project. Also, the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU), established during a previous credit,
further strengthened its capacity to prepare terms of reference,
seek and evaluate consultant's bids, and manage the feasibility
process.



- 3 -
(b)  The Proiect 1-mlementation component had mixed results.  After a
slow start, an effective Institute of Accounting Studies was
established and effective training of local accountants was
being carried out by the close of the project. However, no
progress was made in improving the Government's central
Purchasing unit or in establishing a monitoring and evaluation
system withia i.e nffice of National Planning.
(c)  The Macroeconomic Management component was ineffective, as no
progress was made in strengthening the Debt Management Unit or
the Denartment of Statistics (which was, by mutnal agreement,
dropped by the IDA credit and supported by a later UNDP
project).
7.       By the close of the project in March, 1987 the economic retorm
effort had collapsed, and so in the broadest sense the project's original
objective was beyond fulfillment.  Nevertheless, the project had a number
of useful results, some of which will be of assistance to future reform
efforts:
-    a large number of Sudanese received training abroad and
practical experience in project evaluation, which will be
helpful in preparing future public investment programs;
-    specific feasibility studies financed by the project helped the
Government to make sound investment choices during the project's
life;
-    the Institute of Accounting Studies is adding to the output of
trained Sudanese accountants, which will be useful for future
development efforts.
8.       The nature of the project precludes the calculation of an
economic rate of return.
9.       Proiect Sustainabilitv was not a major objective, given the
nature of the project, but reasonable sustainability seeme to have been
achieved in the PPU and the Institute of Accounting Studies.
10.      Bank Performance.  The major lesson related to Bank performance
is that a project of this kind is extremely staff-intensive, requiring
frequent communications, clearances, consultation and supervision by Bank
staff. It was originally supervised by a Programs staff officer, but
later was transferred to a Projects Unit when the administrative burden
overloaded the Program Division's capacity to handle the work load.
11.      Borrower Performance varied considerably, depending on the
interest and capacity of the Government unit involved. Generally
cooperation was good. The Office of Planning especially valued the
project as an important source of financing for feasibility studies and
training abroad.



- 4 .
12.      in Summarv the project achieved reasonable results considering
that it was conceived as supportive of other broader objectives which,
ultimately, were not achieved. Nevertheless, it produced some useful
results and had some lasting institutional benefits for Sudan.



PART IIS
1.       Proiect Timetable
Identification           February 1980
Appraisal                Jan/February 1981
Negotiations             April 1981
Board Approval           May 28, 1981
Credit Signature         July 2, 1981
Credit Effectiveness     Dec. 22, 1981
Credit Closing           March 1, 1987
2.       Credit Disbursements
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   ms
Estimated Disbs.        2.0    2.S    0.8    0.7
Actual             0.04    .55   0.61   0.76    1.41   0.99   0.13
Funds Cancelled:   SDR S70,410.50
3.       Status of Covyt-ants. There were only a few special covenants
related to the project, as followst
(a)  The Borrower was to establish an Accounting Steering ComnAttee
to prepare a uniform chart of accounts and auditing standards,
and draft legislation for establishing an Institute of
Accounting Studies by September 1, 1983; this was accomplished,
but with several years' delay;
(b) The Borrower was to strengthen the Debt Management Unit and
appoint an acceptable Director by September to 1981; this Unit
was never effectively strengthened nor was a qualified Director
appointed.
(c) Requirements regarding the establishment of policies and
procedures for PPU were effectively carried out, as was
compliance with the requirements to submit consaltant's
contracts for approval and to send copies of reports and drafts
of consultants to IDA.
4.       Use of Bank Resources
Actual Staff-Weeks
Preparation                    14.0
Appraisal                       3.2
Negotiations                    1.5
Supervision                    74.8
TOTAL          93.5



-6-
5.       SuDervision Missions *
July 1982
Feb. 1985
Nov. 1985
Oct. 1986
*     These are the only regular supervisiont missions recorded in the
files.  However, it is possible that other supervision missions
occurred that were not recorded. Also specific portions of the
project were reviewed in the field by Bank staff during other
supervision missions, as was the processing of feasibility
studies by technical staff in the appropriate discipline.



