Document of               FlliE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3050-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit          =  Sudanese Pound (LSd)                 =  100 piasters
Official Market                                 Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                              US$1.00  =  LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                               LSd 1.00 =  US$1.25
ABBREVIATIONS
ASC   -   Accounting Steering Committee
DMU   -   Debt Management Unit
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance and National Economy
MOP   -   Ministry of National Planning
PCC   -   Project Coordinating Committee
PPU   -   Project Preparation Unit
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system: An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound and parallel
market rate of US$1.25 per pound. Valuation of virtually all imports for
customs purposes was changed to the new official rate (LSdl= US$2.00)
from the previous official rate (LSdl = US$2.50). On September 21, 1980
the Government moved to the parallel market all exports except cotton and
all imports except wheat, sugar, petroleum products, medicines and inputs
for cotton production.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:             SDR 4.9 million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms.
Project             The project would support a three year program designed
Description:      to assist Government in the execution of certain critical
tasks needed to carry out successfully the current economic
stabilization effort. These tasks fall within the general
categories of project preparation, project implementation
and macro-economic management. Specifically, the project
would provide: (a) Project Preparation - about 30 man-years
of consultant services for project preparation and planning
activities in support of the nation's Three-Year Public
Investment Program; training and fellowships in project
appraisal and supervision as well as regional planning;
(b) Project Implementation - (i) Five man-years of
consultant services to help strengthen the Institute of
Accounting Studies in the Ministry of Finance so as to be
better able to produce more, better trained bookkeepers and
accounting technicians; provision of equipment, furniture,
teaching materials to support the Institute as well as
fellowships for future teachers of the Institute; (ii), two
man-years of specialized assistance, as well as training,
to help strengthen the Department of Purchasing in the
Ministry of Finance in order to facilitate tendering and
procurement procedures; (iii) six man-weeks of consultant
services to study the possible establishment of an effective
monitoring and evaluation mechanism within the Ministry of
National Planning; (c) Macro-Economic Management - About
27 man-months of consultant services to help strengthen
(i) the Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance and
(ii) the Department of Statistics in the Ministry of
National Planning; some overseas training would also be
provided for staff of the Debt Management Unit. Benefits
expected from the project include: (a) Improved screening
and preparation of priority development projects; (b) better
utilization of external resources through improved project
implementation and macro-economic management; (c) Improved
debt reporting, financial control and flow of funds analysis.
There are no unusual risks associated with the project,
except for the normal hazards involved in recruiting suitable
experts and obtaining effective coordination with local staff.
However, Government's commitment to the project and its
objectives should help to mitigate these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



----------- (US$ Million) -----------
Estimated Cost 1/                     Local          Foreign            Total
Consultant/Advisor Services           0.5               5.1              5.6
Training                              0.1               0.3              0.4
Local Staff Costs                     0.1                -               0.1
Equipment                             0.1               0.6              0.7
Total Project Cost:               0.8              6.0              6.8
Financing Plan:
------------(US$ Million)-----------
Local          Foreign           Total
IDA                                     -             6.0                6.0
Government                             0.8             -                 0.8
Total                             0.8            6.0               6.8
Estimated Disbursements:
---------(US$ Million)---------
IDA    FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85
Annual                                  2.0       2.5       0.8      0.7
Cumulative                               2.0      4.5       5.3       6.0
Estimated Completion Date:   September, 1984.
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no separate Appraisal Report.
1/   Project costs are shown net of taxes and duties which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 4.9 million
(US$6.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Second Technical Assistance
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and
in mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979.
Major conclusions are reflected in this report along with the principal
findings of an economic mission which visited the country in January/February
1981. The report of the latter mission will be issued in the near future.
Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa.  It has a population of about 17 million and is
classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is
estimated at about US$370 (1979 Atlas methodology) 1/. Much of the country
is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is relatively little
population pressure on the land.  Although much of the country is desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural develop-
ment. About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or
pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this land is under inten-
sive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major
commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing
agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to the pro-
duction of consumer goods and building materials.  A development of potential
significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the
southwestern part of the country.  Proven reserves are not large enough for
export production.  However, they are large enough to help satisfy part of
the country-s domestic requirements and a project to meet this
objective is now being considered. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are
being returned to the private sector, about half of industrial GDP is still
generated within the public sector.
1/   Based on the official exchange rate, which now applies only to a limited
group of products (ref. para. 16). Per capita GNP values at the parallel
exchange rate would be about US$220.



-2-
Past Performance
4.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war in Sudan, the Government began to focus on the country's develoD-
ment needs. Government's development objectives were stated clearly for the
first time in 1973 in an Interim Action Program, which aimed mainly at removing
the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attaining self-sufficiency in a number
of consumer goods and expanding agricultural exports to increase foreign
exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this program through external
assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab oil-exporting countries,
which at the time regarded Sudan as the future "breadbasket" of the Arab
world. Government development expenditure did expand rapidly, from LSd 42
million in 1973/74 to around LSd 190 million per year on average during the
last three years, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors.
Substantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion -- but the amounts
fell short of what was required, while limited absorptive capacity slowed
disbursements and delayed seriously the completion of the projects. Today,
despite several years of accelerated development effort, GDP is now virtually
stagnating and the country is financially much worse off than when the develop-
ment thrust began.
The Current Crisis
5.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1972/73 and 1975/76, the deficit on current account increased
from US$39 million to about US$500 million and averaged around US$450
until 1980/81 when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious
decline in cotton production pushed the current account deficit to around
US$700 million. In spite of high levels of external aid commitments, disburse-
ments actually declined between 1976 and 1978. International reserves
have fallen from a level equivalent to two months' imports in 1973/74 to only
a few days worth of imports today. External payments arrears of about US$1.3
billion have accumulated.
6.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse developments in
foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces -- reduced flows of
external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity
difficulties.
7.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975. Though there was a sharp
rise in real terms between 1973/74 and 1975/76 imports have increased at the
much more moderate pace since then of about 2 to 3 percent a year on average.
Since 1977/78 imports have declined in real terms by about 10 percent per year.
Exports, declined in real terms by some 25 percent between 1972/73 and 1979/80.
The decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift



from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields.
The volume of cotton exports in 1979/80 was about 20 percent lower than in
1972/73. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems contri-
buted to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public irrigation
schemes.
8.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of the absorptive problems,
disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the first few years,
dropping from $463 million in 1974 to $183 million in 1977. Because of the
slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors became less
willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice: either to
cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by running down
foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other sources abroad.
The Government decided to try to sustain the development effort by using
reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms. Gross interna-
tional reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to $22 million
at the end of 1977/78. As foreign reserves ran out, the accumulation of
arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile, annual external public debt service
obligations increased from $57 million in 1973 to about $300 million at
present. The debt service burden as a proportion of exports of goods and
services increased in those years from 12 percent to over 35 percent. The
reasons were (a) the huge amount of external borrowing in 1974-77 and (b) the
fact that a large proportion of the borrowing was on relatively hard terms.
This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to a very difficult debt
service burden but also has critical implications for future debt service
obligations (ref. para. 23).
9.        Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in absorptive capacity and in economic policies. For example,
the inadequacies and unreliability of the transport system, which in a country
the size of Sudan is absolutely crucial for effective development, remains a
serious constraint on implementation capacity. Because of the scarcity of
foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock has been insufficient.
These and other infrastructure bottlenecks have been exacerbated by an exodus
of qualified Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab coun-
tries.
10.       A major reason behind Sudan's current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance and resulted in a net drain on the central government
reserves for the past five years. Although the exchange rate has been
adjusted several times in recent years, cotton has generally received an
unfavorable effective rate compared to other products.
11.       The system of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton
also has helped make the situation worse. For example, under the historic
profit sharing formulae, in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses of all
crops are generally deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales alone. Returns
from other crops accrue to the tenant, giving them a strong disincentive to
growing cotton, despite the fact that the country's international comparative
advantage is greatest in that crop.



- 4 -
12.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 43 percent
in 1976/77. This in turn contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from about 10 percent in the early 1970s to over 20 percent in
more recent years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have been
for social and community services, transfers to local government and general
administration. The sharp increases in general administration expenditures
are due in large part to wages and salaries of civilians in the central
government, cost of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the
revenue side, tax revenues have increased over the past few years; since
the tax system is relatively inelastic, this increase has been made possible
only with frequent new tax measures.
13.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country. These enterprises have not contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied
on the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits.
A study of the public enterprises was carried out in 1977 by a team consisting
of Government, University of Khartoum, private sector and Bank Group represen-
tatives; the final report was issued in April 1978. The main shortcomings of
the public enterprises, as portrayed in the report, included poor management,
inadequate internal organization and control, contradictory and unclear
objectives and often changing relations with ministries and departments.
Policy Changes
14.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government in the last three years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.
(a)  Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
15.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
and short and medium term foreign borrowing within certain limits. Also, the
Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated agriculture
sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be imposed on
most crops. In May 1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to
be taken by Government in order to obtain access to a three year Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) for SDR 200 million. The policy actions involve essentially an
extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simul-
taneously with these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition
of the cotton export tax, institution of land and water charges, revamping of
agricultural production relationships -- which should help considerably to
recast the pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along
lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international
trade.



16.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows:
(i) establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valua-
tion of all imports for customs purposes changed to the new official rate;
(ii) abolishment of a special incentive rate for remittances and establishment
of a parallel exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25; and
(iii) agreement to allow residents and nonresidents to have current accounts
with Sudanese banks denominated in foreign exchange. Under this system,
some 90 percent of exports, 70 percent of imports, and all official invisibles,
cash loans and debt service were to have come under the official rate while
all other transactions would be under the parallel market rate. It was believed
that the availability of interest-bearing domestic accounts denominated in
foreign currency would encourage the flow of private sector funds to the Sudan,
especially from expatriate Sudanese working abroad. On September 21, 1980,
the Government decided to apply the parallel market rate to all exports except
cotton and all imports except petroleum, wheat, sugar, medicines and inputs to
cotton production. The proportion of exports channeled through the parallel
market has increased, as a result, from about 6 percent to about 64 percent
and imports from 48 percent to about 56 percent.
17.       Subsequently, on November 12, 1980, the Fund Board approved a
second year program under the EFF. The program includes important measures
to improve the incentives for cotton production, to reform further the ex-
change system and to limit credit expansion in the economy to a level which
is consistent with a substantial reduction in the rate of inflation. The
exchange system reform involves basically a further widening of the scope
of operations under the parallel market (ref. para 16). The objective of the
second year financial program under the EFF is to achieve a further reduction
in the rate of inflation to about 12 percent by June, 1981. Approval of the
second year program means that Sudan now has access to a further 176 million
SDR's under the EFF, 76 million of which was disbursed immediately upon
approval by the Fund Board and the remainder to be made available in tranches,
depending on Government performance. Disbursements under the second year
program approved in November 1980 have been slowed by difficulties encountered
in restricting net domestic asset creation; the tranche based on a review as
of the end of December 1980 was not released, but the IMF Board did approve on
April 9, 1981 release of 19.8 million SDR's under the first credit tranche
(which had been expanded by the general IMF quota increase) and of 45.7
million SDR's under the compensatory financing facility. Performance under
the second year program for the EFF will be examined again in May 1981.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
18.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
Investments and actions towards this goal would also contribute to larger



- 6 -
exports of groundnut and sorghum, since these crops would also capture some of
the benefits of the program. The EAP comprises (a) a series of urgently
needed investments aimed mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for spare
parts, replacement equipment and inputs of various types, principally in ti
major irrigation schemes where the chief export crops are grown (proceeds c
the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) (Credit No.
1000-SU) would help fulfill this aspect of the EAP); (b) a series of rehabi-
litation projects to be carried out in the 1980's, also in the irrigated
subsector (the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, (Credit 1022-SU),
approved in May, 1980 was the first of these); and (c) policy and other
actions such as institutional reform and revision of cost recovery systems
intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated production. Some
of these actions have already been taken; others are being implemented as
part of the ARP Credit, still others will be done in the context of planned
rehabilitation projects.
19.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government in 1979 completed the Three Year Public Investment Program,
for the period 1978/79-1980/81. The program has recently been updated to
cover the years 1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of this program is a
significant redirection in Sudan's development effort to those activities
that hold greatest promise for increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a
new interim strategy has been adopted which sets essentially two criteria for
the selection of development projects: (i) concentration on the completion of
ongoing projects, particularly those in the most productive sectors; and
(ii) limiting new undertakings to those that rehabilitate existing produc-
tion schemes or that help alleviate the major infrastructural bottlenecks.
The revised three year program also provides for a substantial reduction in
the total investment that had been envisioned in the plan for the three years;
this has brought resource requirements into line with resource availabilities.
(c) Public Corporations
20.       For sometime, a special inter-ministerial committee has been dis-
cussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises (ref.
para. 13); the Government has begun to take some action to help remedy the
situation. For example, in September, 1979, the Government announced the
abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup in agricul-
ture, and replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organiza-
tional changes are expected shortly in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. This is only a beginning, however, with more reforms expected
in the future.
(d) Management of External Debt
21.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 8), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion and



- 7 -
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million (excluding payment of arrears). Until very recently, the
authority to engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign
loans was scattered among many different ministries and agencies. The absence
of a central authority or unit which had a complete picture of the total debt
and which could render sound judgments on the appropriateness of various
foreign borrowing options further compounded the external debt problem. This
inefficiency has now been ameliorated through the decision to vest sole
authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of Finance. Also, a new
debt management unit in the Ministry of Finance became operational in 1979;
however its effectiveness is unsatisfactory and special assistance is required
(ref. para. 41).
22.       Equally significant, however, are the moves to deal with the severe
debt and arrears problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on
the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on (a)
a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1, 1979
and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts
payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981 inclusive and not paid
(future debt service obligations). This will apply to loans from governments
or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one year and
which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
23.       The Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about $300 million
worth of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $150
million of future debt service obligations. While the Paris Club agreements
were more generous in terms of period and percentage of debt service covered
than other such Paris Club agreements and reduced the country's financing gap
to more manageable proportions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short
of resolving Sudan's medium term external payments problems. Negotiations
must still be completed on the rescheduling of debt to commercial banks. This
is now estimated to include about US$450 million of arrears; in addition about
US$650 million of suppliers credits are in arrears and need to be rescheduled.
Such an agreement is expected in the near future. But even with these reschedul-
ings completed, the country will have debt service ratios above 50 percent by
1985 in the absence of further relief. These reschedulings must therefore be
seen as the first step in a longer process of restructing the nation's burden
of external debt. As part of the effort to help the Government obtain the
foreign assistance required to maintain the development effort, the Bank Group
convened a meeting of the Sudan Consultative Group in Paris from April 9-11,
1980.
24.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long-term debt service is
about 3 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1979) and of debt out-
standing and disbursed is almost 9 percent. We foresee relatively little
change on these ratios by 1985, though this will depend on the amounts and
forms of debt relief obtained.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
25.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$778.5
million. Of this, US$32.9 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight
loans (two on Third Window terms) and 27 credits for a total of 33 projects.
Nineteen projects are under implementation as well as one planning assistance
project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. Almost 50 percent of the
total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: three irriga-
tion projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder
development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a live-
stock marketing project; an agricultural research project; an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program, the New Halfa Rehabilitation project and the Blue and
White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation projects. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, two education projects, two highway projects,
a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, a port project, a technical
assistance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan has
been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to the Middle
East oil rich states, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on
effective preparation and implementation of projects. Largely as a result
of these problems, the Savannah Development Project (Credit 718 of June 24,
1977) has had to be redesigned into a much smaller pilot project; this pro-
posed change will shortly be submitted to the Executive Directors. Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643 of July 7, 1976) has
encountered a serious cost overrun problem and may have to be terminated. The
future of this project is now being discussed with Government. Beyond these
difficulties there are other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome
Government procedures. For example, there have been protracted delays in
getting parliamentary ratification of agreed development projects and, sub-
sequently, in obtaining legal opinions from Government. There have also been
inordinate delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of
problems in establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key
staff, completing necessary legal documentation or concluding required co-
financing arrangements. Effective project implementation has been adversely
affected by slowness in carrying out proper tendering and procurement require-
ments or in completing project accounts and audits. These problems have been
brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities, and efforts are
being intensified to help resolve them. The proposed Second Technical
Assistance project is designed to address the problems.
Strategy
27.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment s current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation



- 9 -
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The
objective here will essentially be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently
to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large
part to help meet equity, as well as productive and regional balance goals,
will very likely take much longer to implement because of problems of inade-
quate infrastructure, lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable institu-
tional support.
28.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as refLected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year
Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 18, 19). An Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, both
having the objective of helping the country generate increased export earnings
in order to help carry it through the stabilization period, were approved in
FY1980, along with a third power project. More recently, two projects were
approved to help rehabilitate pump schemes along the White and Blue Nile
rivers. Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the
Gezira irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project,
a second port project, a petroleum development project, a sugar rehabilitation
project and a river transport project.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Background
29.       As indicated in Part I (ref. paras. 14-23), Sudan has been suffering
a serious balance of payments crisis as a consequence of inadequate economic
management policies and other external factors such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports. To correct the problems, Government has taken
several significant decisions including (a) scaling down the six year develop-
ment plan to a more realistic three-year public investment program that
concentrates on the completion of ongoing projects, particularly those in the
most productive sectors; (b) a financial stabilization program agreed with the
IMF; (c) rescheduling agreements to deal with the severe debt and arrears
problems; and (d) an export action program involving a series of rehabilitation
projects in the irrigated subsector designed to increase production of the
main export crop, cotton.
30.       Many constraints impede the effective execution of these various
efforts. For example, the Government's capacity to identify and prepare
priority development projects, consistent with the above-mentioned programs,
is weak and needs continued assistance and strengthening. Project imple-
mentation has been adversely affected by the economic crisis (ref. para. 26)
and there is need for remedial action in certain critical areas such as
financial management and tendering and procurement which cover all development
sectors. Finally, the Government's macro-economic management capacities need
strengthening in certain fundamental areas such as debt management and
national accounts data.



- 10 -
Project Preparation
31.       Under the First Technical Assistance Project (US$4 million Credit
614-SU), approved in February, 1976, a special Project Preparation Unit (PPU,
was established in the Ministry of National Planning to assist in strengthen
and expanding the capacity of Sudanese institutions to execute preinvestment
work and preparation activities for priority development projects. The PPU's
functions are to coordinate preinvestment activities, ensure that all priority
projects are being prepared appropriately by the responsible agency and assist
in the technical supervision of project preparation activities.
32.       The performance of the PPU under the first project has been mixed.
The PPU has made quite good progress since its establishment, but it is
suffering from a number of constraints, among them, high turnover of staff,
administrative delays and lack of clear monitoring authority over Govern-
ment's project preparation activities. A specialist from an expatriate
planning team in the Ministry of National Planning, financed by UNDP and
administered by the Bank Group, was attached on a permanent basis to PPU
to assist in preparation and evaluation of various studies. This system
was only partly successful, since the specialist concerned tended to have
expertise in only one or two areas while the PPU's scope of work embraced many
different disciplines in all sectors. Funds under the first project were used
mainly to finance preparation of priority projects in the agriculture, water
supply and transport sectors. Some of these projects have come to fruition --
i.e. the New Halfa Rehabilitation project (Credit 1022-SU) and the Livestock
Meat Marketing project (Credit 782-SU). Others have been appraised (the
proposed Agriculture Services project) or are still under preparation (the
proposed Gezira rehabilitation and Sugar rehabilitation projects). Still
others have been completed and are either under consideration for financing
by other donors (i.e. Western Sudan Water Supply) or have had to be deleted
from the Government s public investment program because of the current economic
crisis. Funds under the first project are fully committed and are expected to
be fully disbursed in the near future.
33.       Execution of the first project demonstrated that the Government has
still some distance to go before it can be expected to have the capacity to
prepare and implement priority projects effectively and that it will require
continued assistance for some time.
34.       The framework for project planning and selection is embodied in the
Second Three Year Public Investment Program (1980/81-1982/83), which is the
Government-s blueprint for the current economic stabilization and reform
policies (ref. para. 19). The three year programs are updated each year to
cover the succeeding three year period; the objective is to concentrate
foreign and local resources on the most productive areas of the economy, in
accordance with the following criteria: (a) completion of on-going projects
with acceptable economic benefits; (b) rehabilitation of productive capacity
which promises highest net foreign exchange benefits in the short term;
and (c) limiting new projects to those which help to alleviate major
infrastructure bottlenecks, particularly those that support the productive
sectors.



- 11 -
35.       The second three year program envisages a total public sector
investment of LSd 1.4 billion over the period. In real terms this does not
represent a significant increase over the levels achieved in the past few
years. However, the projects in the program represent the highest priority
undertakings in support of Government's economic recovery program. Agriculture
and transport sector projects account for about 45 percent of the total
program while industry, including power, accounts for 35 percent, services
(education, health, housing) account for 11 percent, others account for 9
percent.
36.       Institutionally, planning is the responsibility of a Ministerial
Committee, chaired by the Minister of National Planning, and including
ministers from the major operational ministries. Staff work is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of National Planning, aided by the UNDP planning team
(ref. para. 32). Small planning units also exist in most major ministries,
public corporations and government agencies; the effectiveness of these units
is mixed, however. It is particularly weak in the area of water resources
planning and the Ministry of Irrigation has requested assistance in
establishing a Water Development Planning Unit.
37.       Currently, preinvestment work on priority development projects is
financed from several sources, including the Bank Group, Kuwait Fund, European
Economic Community, UNDP, as well as bilateral agencies such as the United
States, United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. For the future,
new sources of foreign exchange will be required to finance pre-investment
work as well as detailed preparation of projects in the public investment
programs. Although the requirement is difficult to quantify, even one percent
of the cost of a US$600 million per annum investment program would require
expenditures of about US$6 million per annum; the requirement is likely to
exceed this level. An informal survey of technical assistance requirements
for project preparation, as well as likely sources for such assistance, was
made during appraisal of this project to help ensure that there would be no
duplication of effort. An indicative list of project preparation activities
proposed to be financed under the Credit is shown at Annex IV, Appendix 1.
Project Implementation
38.       As indicated above (ref. para. 30) project implementation is weak,
particularly in certain essential areas such as financial management, tendering
and procurement. The Government has for several years recognized the urgent
need to improve accounting and auditing practices and to help improve financial
management of government agencies and parastatals. Early in 1980, following
discussions with the Government, the Bank Group carried out a review of the
current status of accounting and auditing practices in the Sudan, and a report
was prepared in September, 1980. The report reveals that the demand for
accountants in the Sudan is much greater than the available supply, and that
this demand would increase rapidly during the 1979-84 period. There are now
about 16,000 bookkeepers, 50 accounting technicians and 50 professional
accountants in the Sudan. The report projects the demand by the end of 1984
to be: 30,500 bookkeepers, 1,950 accounting technicians and 1,355 professional
accountants. The gap is immense, and the number of accountants of all levels
turned out by Sudanese universities and the Institute of Accounting Studies in
the Ministry of Finance falls far short of meeting the need of both the public



- 12 -
and private sectors. A result of this shortage has been a lack of proper
accounting for expenditures in many ministries and especially in the regional
government units. Bookkeeping in such agencies and in the regions is one to
two years in arrears; among many parastatal corporations, only basic financial
accounts are maintained. Annual statements are prepared with considerable
delay (one year or more), internal control is weak or non-existent, and there
are no accounting manuals. The auditor general is similarly deficient in
staff, both in numbers and quality, and accounts are seldom audited on a
current basis. The shortage is less severe in the private sector because of
the higher salaries offered by commercial and industrial firms. However,
demand for accounting services grows from year to year. In addition, the
country lacks a soundly based accounting profession with an agreed set of
regulations, accounting and auditing standards and a code of ethics.
39.       Another obstacle to project implementation involves the delays and
problems associated with tendering and procurement. The Department of Purchas-
ing in the Ministry of Finance, the central government procurement agency,
services 200 organizations and clears contracts amounting to LSd 200 million
annually. However, it does not have sufficient manpower nor facilities to
function efficiently. As a result, offers are not evaluated thoroughly
and overall procurement in the country tends to be decentralized and uncoor-
dinated, leading to increased operating costs and a loss of the financial
advantages normally generated by bulk purchasing. The Department suffers from
high staff turnover, shortage of adequately trained staff, inadequate equipment
and access to information on world market trends. Procedural bottlenecks,
caused by overly bureaucratic policies and elaborate restrictions on the
Director's authority to clear contracts, also are problems. Currently, there
is no in-house training in this area in the Ministry of Finance and no related
training courses at any institution in Sudan. The staff receive only
infrequent, on-the-job training.
40.       Project planning and implementation is also hampered by the absence of
a systematic mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the plethora of projects
underway in the country. In the context of the three-year public investment
program, Government feels it is essential that such a mechanism be set up to
ensure a reliable flow of information on the successes and failures of develop-
ment efforts, so that future investments can be better designed.
Macro-economic Management
41.       In addition to the above problems, Government has deficiencies in
certain key areas of macro-economic management, namely debt management and
statistics. The need for a strong debt management system has perhaps never
been greater as Sudan's external debt now stands at more than US$2.0 billion
(ref. para. 21). The Debt Management Unit (DMU), established in 1978 in the
Ministry of Finance and National Economy to help centralize control of
external borrowing, is weak. Although functioning for more than two years, the
DMU has failed to fulfil its primary responsibility of gathering data on new
and old loans in order to assist the Minister of Finance in debt analysis and
projections. A major reason for the DMU's failure is the lack of leadership.
Currently the unit is headed by a supervisor who has other duties besides debt
management. Management of the unit and staff training, as well as internal
procedures need strengthening.



- 13 -
42.       The lack of reliable statistics on national economic performance
has also been detrimental to economic planning and the development of sound
macro-economic policies in Sudan. A 1975 World Bank report on the Statistical
System of Sudan indicated several serious shortcomings. For statistics on
current production, prices, public sector accounts, external debt and national
accounts there are major gaps in the data, or it is not available at all. For
foreign trade statistics there are serious overlaps, duplications and incon-
sistencies among the various agencies responsible for these series. And for
almost all of the statistics, their relevance is greatly diminished by the
lack of timeliness. National accounts are prepared at current prices on the
basis of inadequate basic statistics and rough estimates. Inadequate price
data make the preparation of national accounts at constant prices very difficult,
and such estimates have not been prepared for several years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The second Technical Assistance project is essentially a successor
to the first, although with slightly larger scope to better meet Sudan's
needs. The general approach was discussed with representatives of Government
during review missions of the first project (Credit 614-SU) in February and
September 1980. The subject was also raised with the Government delegation to
the 1980 Annual Meeting in Washington and the project was appraised in January
1981.   Negotiations were held in Khartoum on April 12, 1981 with a Sudanese
delegation led by Mr. Osman Mustafa, Acting Undersecretary, Ministry of National
Planning. A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report. There
is no separate appraisal report but further details on the proposed project
are in Annexes III and IV.
Project Objectives
44.       The principal objective of the project is to assist Government in
the execution of certain critical tasks needed to carry out successfully the
current economic stabilization program (ref. paras. 18 and 19). These tasks
fall within the general categories of project preparation, project implementa-
tion and macro-economic management. Specifically, the project would support a
three year program to help: a) Increase the benefits of development projects
by improving Government's ability to screen and coordinate preinvestment
activities and to prepare priority projects in the public investment program
that could be considered for financing by the World Bank Group and other
external financing agencies; b) Alleviate one of the major constraints in
Sudan's development effort -- shortage of adequately trained bookkeepers and
accountants -- through a special accountancy training program; c) Facilitate
project implementation in all sectors through the provision of special assist-
ance for tendering and procurement to the Ministry of Finance's Department of
Purchasing, and d) Improve control and monitoring of Sudan-s macro-economic
performance through provision of technical assistance for debt management and
for data collection and processing (national accounts).



- 14 -
Project Description
45.       The project would comprise:
(a) Project Preparation: (i) About 30 man-years of consultant
services for a variety of project preparation and planning
tasks; and (ii) five seminars and six fellowships for the
planning staff in the Project Preparation Unit (PPU).
(b) Project Implementation: (i) About seven man-years of
expatriate services of which five man-years (two accounting
experts) would strengthen the Institute of Accounting Studies
in the Ministry of Finance; two man-years (a tendering and
procurement advisor) would strengthen the Department of
Purchasing in the Ministry of Finance; six man-weeks of
Consultant service to study the possible establishment
of an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism within
the Ministry of National Planning; and (ii) Training, to
provide 12 man-years of fellowships for future teachers of
the Institute of Accounting Studies; and six weeks of overseas
training for the Department of Purchasing.
(c) Macroeconomic Management: (i) About 27 man-months of inter-
nationally recruited advisory/training support of which nine
man-months (a debt management advisor) would strengthen the
Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance and 18 man-
months (a national accounts statistics advisor) would strengthen
the Department of Statistics in the Ministry of Planning; and
(ii) Six weeks of overseas training for the DMU.
(d) Provision of equipment, furniture, teaching materials and
vehicles to support the above activities.
46.       Costs and Financing.  The total project cost, net of taxes and
duties which are negligible, is estimated at US$6.8 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$6.0 million (88 percent of total project
costs). The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million would finance the total
foreign exchange component. Local costs of US$0.8 million are to be financed
by the Government. Project costs include physical contingencies equivalent to
about 15 percent of base costs and price contingencies equivalent to about
8.5, 7.5 and 7.0 percent respectively for FY82-84. The estimated average
man-month cost of expert services is US$10,000 including salary, overhead costs,
subsistence and travel. The allocation of the Credit for beneficiary activities
would be as follows: project preparation, including consultants' services to
advise on the possibility of establishing a monitoring and evaluation system,
US$4.0 million; Institute of Accounting studies, US$1.4 million; Department of
Purchasing, US$250,000; Debt Management Unit, US$150,000; Department of
Statistics (National Accounts), US$200,000.



- 15 -
Detailed Features
(a) Project Preparation
47.       As noted earlier (ref. para. 32), the Project Preparation Unit (PPU)
in the Ministry of National Planning has been suffering from a number of
constraints such as high turnover of staff, administrative delays and lack of
funds and expertise to carry out preinvestment activities. The project would
strengthen and maintain continuity in the PPU. During negotiations, Government
confirmed that the PPU will have clear responsibility for screening and
monitoring all pre-feasibility and feasibility studies related to Government's
Public Investment Programs, as well as responsibility for coordinating project
preparation. Government also agreed to determine the policies and procedures
of the PPU in consultation with the Association (ref. Section 3.06, Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Under the project, PPU would be strengthened through internal
training and through financing for an expanded series of project preparation
activities, an indicative listing of which is shown in Annex IV, Appendix 1.
These were discussed and agreed at negotiations. About 30 man-years of
consultant services would be employed for the identification, selection,
preparation and analysis of projects in the agriculture, infrastructure,
industrial, petroleum, education, regional development, and local construction
sectors. These projects are consistent with the aims of the Government-s
public investment program. Funds would also be provided for five seminars on
project appraisal and supervision techniques and regional planning, as well as
for six fellowships for PPU. The seminars would reach about 125 people.
Provision would also be made for assistance in establishing a Water Development
Planning unit in the Ministry of Irrigation.
49.       The UNDP Planning Team in the Ministry of Planning, which provided a
specialist on a permanent basis to PPU (ref. para. 32) to assist in preparation
and evaluation of various studies in the first Technical Assistance Project,
will supply specialized assistance on a short term basis in the second project.
The UNDP project has provision for 30 man-months of specialized services of
various kinds, including such fields as regional planning. Assistance can be
drawn from this source, as and when needed, and in areas where such assistance
has been clearly identified in advance. This flexible approach will better
serve the PPU than the previous arrangement.
(b) Project Implementation
50.       Institute of Accounting Studies.  For some time the Government has
requested Bank Group assistance to help improve the training and output of
bookkeepers and accountants. This capacity is essential for effective
execution of the development program and to help improve overall financial
management. Under the first technical assistance project, funds were provided
for a consultant to prepare proposals for consideration by the Bank Group.
The proposals were based on an extensive study that had been completed in
September, 1980 by the Bank's Internal Auditing Department. The consultant-s
report recommended an extensive program, costing about US$4.7 million and
including assistance for the Institute of Accounting Studies, the University
of Khartoum, Khartoum Polytechnic and the University of Cairo, Khartoum
Branch.



- 16 -
51.       The most critical component in the Consultant-s proposal --
assistance for the Institute of Accounting Studies -- is included in this
project. Government is seeking assistance elsewhere for the other components.
The project would provide five man years of expatriate training services,
secretarial services, books and teaching equipment, and fellowships. Two
accounting specialists, each for a duration of 2-3 years, would assist in
expanding the output of the Institute and help establish standards for the
Sudanese accountancy profession.
52.       The present Institute of Accounting Studies provides instruction to
government and public corporation employees. It is housed in two classrooms,
each with a 30-student capacity, and can handle only 180 students a year. The
Institute library is very limited and books are scarce. Equipment is of poor
quality and facilities in general, as well as teaching staff, are inadequate.
The instructors, mostly senior government accountants and local university
professors, teach only part-time.
53.       Under the project, the Institute would be significantly expanded to
provide much broader training opportunities at three levels: bookkeeping,
technician and professional. When operating at its intended capacity in about
three years, the Institute would annually train about 960 bookkeepers, 100-200
accounting technicians and 40-60 professional accountants. In addition, it
would provide continuing education courses for the auditor general's staff,
governmental accountants and others. Students would be selected from various
government units and parastatal corporations.
54.       Full and part time teaching staff would be recruited among present
full or part time lecturers of the Institute, qualified civil servants within
the Ministry of Finance, qualified commercial high school teachers, qualified
accounting graduates of Sudanese institutions of higher learning and among
qualified professional accountants. The project would also provide 12 man-
years of fellowships for future teachers. These fellowships should enable
four students to obtain master-s degrees in accountancy and/or appropriate
professional qualifications.
55.       An Accounting Steering Committee would be established by Government
by September 1, 1981 to coordinate implementation of the component (ref.
Section 3.04 Draft Development Credit Agreement). The Committee would liaise
with a Project Coordinating Committee (ref. para 61). It would also oversee
the development of a uniform chart of accounts which should become mandatory
for all parastatals and eventually be adopted by private sector enterprises,
and plan the procedures and administrative steps necessary for the development
of Sudanese accounting and auditing standards (see Annex IV, Appendix 4 for
details). The uniform chart of accounts and the Sudanese accounting and
auditing standards along with draft legislation for establishment of the
Sudanese accounting profession would be ready by September 1, 1983 (ref.
Section 3.04, Draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
56.       The project would be housed in two existing buildings to be renovated
for classroom use by the Ministry of Finance. It is proposed that as a
condition of disbursement for the accountancy training component, Government
be required to provide adequate facilities for the Institute (ref. Section
2.02 (iii), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The project would provide
furniture and equipment for the classrooms, the library and the offices,
audio-visual teaching aids, copying equipment, books, case studies and other
teaching materials.
57.       Department of Purchasing (Tendering and Procurement).  A major
constraint in the implementation of projects in all sectors has been the
delays and problems associated with tendering and procurement (ref. para. 39).
The project would provide specialized assistance -- two man years of
expatriate advisor/trainer service and special training courses -- to assist
the Ministry of Finance's Department of Purchasing. The expatriate would
advise the Director of the Department, train staff and prepare an in-depth
study on the Government's tendering and procurement operations. Two seminars
on tendering and procurement have been planned for the Department of Purchasing
and would reach about 50 people. In addition, three weeks of overseas train-
ing would be provided for two senior staff of the Department.
58.       For some time the Ministry of National Planning has been concerned
about the absence of an effective monitoring and evaluation system within
central Government to help facilitate planning and implementation of the
development program. Under the project, six man-weeks of consultants' services
are provided to examine ways in which such a system could be established
within the Ministry.
(c) Macro-Economic Management
59.       Debt Management Unit.  Although operational more than two years, the
DMU in the Ministry of Finance continues to suffer from lack of a coherent
work program, unmotivated staff and an unreliable data collection system.
The project would provide nine man-months of expatriate assistance and a
three-week study tour for two DMU staff to acquaint them with the Bank's debt
reporting system and experiences of other developing countries where effective
debt management systems exist. The expatriate advisor would help prepare
public debt reports, establish annual work programs for the DMU and procedures
for data collection and training the DMU staff. The Director of the DMU would
be appointed by Government no later than September 1, 1981 and his qualifica-
tions would be acceptable to IDA (ref. Section 3.05, Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
60.       Department of Statistics.  A major work on Sudan-s statistical
system, prepared with Bank Group assistance, was completed in 1975. However,
little has been done since then to implement the report's major recommendations.
Meanwhile, the shortage of data needed to assist in the formulation of macro-
economic policies has continued to worsen. To correct the problem, the
UNDP planning team will work with the Department of Statistics of the Ministry
of Planning to develop its capacity to prepare national account statistics.
This will be done both by developing the skills of the national accounts



- 18 -
section and by working with the other basic data sections (e.g. agriculture,
industry, and transport) so that these units become capable of providing all
of the basic data required for preparation of national accounts.  The natio-l
accounts would be prepared in both current and constant prices, which will
require development of additional skills and capabilities in the preparatioli
of unit price data. The project would provide 18 man-months of expatriate
advisory services and equipment and supplies such as calculators and
typewriters.
Project Coordination
61.       Government has established a Project Coordinating Committee to help
synchronize implementation of the various components of the project. The
Committee is chaired by the Undersecretary of Planning and comprises the
director of the PPU, Director of Statistics, Ministry of National Planning,
Director of Accounts, Ministry of Finance, Director of the Debt Management
Unit and a representative of the Department of Purchasing.
62.       The Project Preparation Unit of the Ministry of Planning would
administer the project preparation activities, as indicated earlier (ref.
para. 47). PPU would report to the Minister of National Planning through the
Undersecretary of Planning, who would be the focal point of coordination.
The accountancy training component would be supervised by an Accounting
Steering Committee, which would liaise with the Project Coordinating Committee
(ref. para. 55).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The selection of advisors and consultants would be in accordance
with Bank Group procedures. Assurances have been obtained that all the
terms of reference, qualifications, conditions of employment and contracts for
consulting services would be subject to agreement by the Association, as
would the list of studies to be financed with the use of those funds allocated
for project preparation (ref. Sections 3.01(b) and 3.02, Draft Development
Credit Agreement). It is expected that most of the technical assistance would
be provided by foreign consultants; however, the Association supports the
Government-s wish to use qualified local consultants as much as possible,
either independently or in collaboration with foreign firms. Because of the
small size and timing of individual purchases, equipment, materials and
vehicles would be procured through competitive bidding following local
procedures, which are acceptable to the Association. Proceeds from the
proposed Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for each project or 88 percent of total. As noted earlier (para.
56) the funds for the accountancy training component (estimated at US$1.4
million) would not be disbursed until the Borrower has provided adequate
facilities for the Institute of Accounting Studies.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The major benefits of the project would be to enhance the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement its current economic stabilization strategy
through the provision of assistance in three critical areas: project pre-
paration; project implementation and macro-economic management. This would



- 19 -
lead to improved screening and preparation by PPU of priority development
projects in the public investment program; the establishment of a pipeline of
well-prepared priority projects which can be submitted to donors, including
the World Bank Group; and more efficient utilization of domestic and external
resources due to improved project implementation. The project would also help
improve overall financial management of the economy.
65.       There are no unusual risks involved in the project.  It should be
noted, however, that technical assistance projects inherently include the
problems of recruiting suitable advisors and consultants capable of cooperating
with and training local staff, and of finding and retaining qualified Sudanese
counterparts. To help reduce this risk and to improve the quality of
consultants, the Association would assist Government in locating and employing
qualified advisors and consultants. With regard to local staff, it should be
possible to attract and retain qualified local staff to the various project
activities given the increased level of financial support plus the key role
that a project of this type plays in the Government's overall stabilization
program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
67.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
mentioned in the text and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
68.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 4, 1981



-20 -                                                   ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                                            Page  1
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                           REF'CERrC    0 CIOUPS (UFlrGTED AVEPCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - HDST IRCFNT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            2505.8
ACGICULTURAL      315.0                                   MOST RECENT              LOW INCOlF               MIDDLE INICOEr
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAR.A  AFRICA SOLTN OF SAHAPA
CNP PER CAPrTA (USS)                    140.0        170.0      370.0                  260.0                    868.0
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RIKLCP.AMS OF COA_ EQUIVALENT)        52.0        130.0      172.0                   0o.o                    699.4
POPULATIOs AND VITAI. STATISTICS
POPULATION, n0-YEAR  IMILLIUNS)        11.3         14. 1      17.4
UhBAN POPULAT1OP (PCRCENI OF TOTAL; J0.3            16.4       23. 0                  17.3                     2E.9
POPULATION FROJECTIOhS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           31.0
STATIOMARY FOPLULATION (MILLION5)                            88.0
YEAR STAT7O0ARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2135
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KH.                           5.0          6.0        7.0                   27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. K. ACRICULTURAL LAND         37.0         46.0       55.0                   82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-! 4 YRS.                           44. 3        45. 3      44. 0                  44.9                     45. 5
i5-64 YRS.                           53.0          52.0       53. 1                 52. 2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2. 7         2. 7       2. 9                   2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTF. RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.2        2.6                    2.7                      2.7
URBAN                                 7. 0         6. 9       7. 1                   6. 8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTF RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.0         46.0       45.0                   47.4                     46.F
CRULE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        25.0         21.0       1B 0                   19.6                     16.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3. 4       3 2                    3. 2                     3. 2
FAMILY PLAKNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  OEN)    ..               ..WO
FO0D AND !IL'TRIT7ON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1469-71-100)             92.0        100.0      109.0                   91.F                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENiTS)                       71.0         86. 0      93.0                  90.2                      92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             53.0         61.0       65.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          23. 0        19.0       19.0                   I8.4                     15.6
CHILD (ACES i-4) MORTALLTY  ATE       46.0         38.0       31.0                   27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0            43.0       46.0                   45.3                     50. 1
INFANrT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        132.          '**
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION I
TOTAL                                  ..            .       46.0                   23.2                     31.0
URBAb                                  ..           ..       49.0                   58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       45.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EUCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         16.0       22.0                   28.9
URBA                                   ..           ..         ..                    67.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            27876.0/Ld   14708.0    8696.0                30910.4                   1450E.2
POPULATION PFR NUhSINC PERSON        3041.COd    1750.0    1336.0                   5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               951.0do.e   937.0e   998 0                   1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                               118.0 /d .   176. Oe       .
RURAL                              4479.0/d.e  5237.0/e        .
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       16.9
HOUSINC
AVERACE SL2E OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                              5.1
UR BAN                                 ..          5. 7 l
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERACE NUHBEN OF PERSONS PER ROon
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                              2. 5/ ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCGS
tOTAL                                  ..         26.4/.
URBAN                                  ..           ..
_  RuRAL                                  ..           ..



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
TAULC 3A                                                    Page  2
SUDAN - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTED AV)F5 rES
- MDST RECCIT ESTtMATE-
nOST RECENT            LOW INr0ME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 /b ESTDiATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAPARA  AFRICA SOUTtl OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENTr RATIOS
PRiLMARP:    TOIAL                  25.0        33.0       41.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  35.0         41.0       47.0                  74.2                    69.2
FEMALE                14.0         26.0       34.0                  54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          7.0      13.0                   10.0                    20.6
MALE                   5.0          9.0       17.0                  13.7                    29.2
FDIALE                 1.0          4.0        9.0                   7.1                     14.7
'OCATIONAL ENHUL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   3.0            1. 4&     1. 0/g.h               6. 8                    7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0        47.0       39.0                  45.a                     36.6
SECONDARY                           20.0         17.0      22.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT IITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.1         15.0Lk    20.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1. 4        2. 0        ..                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0         71.0      73.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 8        2. 9       5.3                   1.8
NE4SPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    4. 0          ..         . 0                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMIA AJiNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 8          ..       0. 7                    ..                     0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3731.5      4623.1    5582.0                       .
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.6         10.2      11.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               85.7         82.0      79.0                   80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCEIT)                   6.2          7.8       9.0                    6.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.0         32.1       31.5                  42.2                    38.8
HALE-                                 59. 1        56.9       55.8                  55.1                    48. 4
FEMIALE                                6.4          6.6       6.7                   29.5                    29.4
ECONIOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.5        1.5                   1.2                      1.3
INCOMIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCEhT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HNICEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20. 90. 
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.1/         49.2/k
LOWEST 20 PERCElT OF HOUSEBOLDS    5. 01         S. ._..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.911         14.5/k
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      137.0                  138.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       80.0                   86.1
ESTL?IATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URPAN                                 ..          ..      115.0                  107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      100.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEILW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCEPT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..       85.0                   66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mrong the indicetors depends on availability of date and is no uniform.
b   Unles. otherwisc noted, dat. for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
snd 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1974 and 1978.
c   1970-73 averape;  _d 1962;  Le Covernment hospital eatabilsh.-ent:  /f 1965;  /S Beginning 1970. the
duration of general secondary education was reduced frc  8 to 6 years;  Lh Includes programs of 5
traininp centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min, of Youth and
Sport;  /i 1966;  /i 1963. Ofdurm.n "urban;`   k 1967-68.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979. a*l other data are an of April. 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                               AMNEX I
tlage 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL, INDIICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drte  from  occt -geerll  jodged the moot authoritatiOe  ace relable, :0 cluck  alto  he oared rhat they sap  or he iocer-
theles, aesfl 00  etreih   ordee at   agit-c fdictokego cdhearondataroan   oorTh.ereoodhorea
The eccesooc   roups  re  10) thecm   coute  gru   f  o   u   c  roet'ao   (           .ac.. r   gru..c   oeoa    iho  e aeOre  that..the...ator   to
stei        . .t-aora  afillbet .  l  th  cefru  gru         Idt the   d.eradet arc  paoltir  clhtl                f-rh enireesfrec   otaa    o   hset                  lea
lAND  RiA  (igicud sqct.)                                                               eoulaiet  Ardoriio-tputt  asnddbycabe  atpettitig   ty
AMP Pt CaPIT  (I th.      NOp c    apite.j. a    sot. h-sataE- a ht rro  eeriert-prices. c~l-t    groat,- god,i eure g lhide  hy "the. reseerr,e  tchet  efi eebisit  hel
odltodb   aecneog  meld  sOti  Io   Als  1777                             lesd) 110.             tvaiabl -thot pah... ee  pi-eate gemo               PI sdpeielisad-hempteh  eel me
.n:nd i- --t cnift-,           I,  elaly  t   cs  ge  hylte.    srllcbecspeviio  pislala    caeda
Tsoit     ne    erlem    uual -Tt1c. .igo gel byt-. aur andnaolgchrolde-                         oteerdprees                  tfe  b  a phdhysiodld se (bcy  b  a .medite  asslptey
Atriic.ty)ic-    oom1      tca  euahc    e   aie    01,.7,a    9tre  cldoste,  n.    hr  ottera is-priam aat                                              oad-tity I  el.-   vie
leas,                                                                                    lmited,tage e  medital feroni-iPtlee.   F   sterietitaly-         ,, peese    aham hgp.&
Preef taana   (lre    k f  oaug  -  rat coI or crie   troti.plapuanotIan hdyttle  iidd   th combe  ohale.                                             n
diffeoget lolinitioco  af sohee easing may adfforo, 2 cbomporahI.1 - PpnotirO(tdata
Pelptlesiot. Itner20   -  Curro  Woolmoo  pook ecerau   are77  laced an 1990,                   end blct  min  insole.          -coade  or lolgcr may at mayioat he pitolded
Idlevel  , aed fesglr  nf eemertaer   stahll,llog t0.5ras T1he parc1-                         aeig,rsPeonivly   . m d l nog  toy lasi unpeten eott  y     stditm e. Itnd
teobotuoryis   betsooocdateof  hcsoitcacotlaa   afearalcp              invotd ions0 dwl r.insct1 fclictriccp Pe t           tviagqur1 r  as..  pbrreerage
POLaTON fAriiyred   frpaeDr VIurpSTATeTlC                                                       of  inorl,drbn WHO.   rurapl lc...lIngsoespeonivsly..dh.i4.    n 
Itatiasary otoulatiot - cc a soatlomacy yopulanioe there7 15 00 growth scoread -T.t1 .b- I   di.ins t..~  isc-j.
thu     hsiba   tei  equal tof Ethe deathre  aed alsot  t-eegesteacocrore-                 ti bniop
mee    tsee.Ti fs rachieved  gcy aforfet     il-py abjtra~ deotis  to           AdUSteI     celNG     tct
sherela           196e0lve  of70 celt set8 redueieraetle                  errein             Pei.maa Soh-o  -iH.. terld ,2maim      - ad  fe al- hreas natal, eels  m  feale
inp the pe       t 100,  soAhert  ohelleo  f...r.ar   orelt-                                       er  Octd sA_eie   for  ifirec   ingh mdaf               h prmay lcatec  f.tr
Year  tortomor aeltOn is-eahe -p Te parl hm   senicey  popclgti-ao-    n  98                   P ethotigm   pupil  Ar  be-d- or   .dgm   the  gfina   sobeo   ig.lddi
alesl hasbeti.   yg                 .   n  thes-tliohdfel.iy  .ta                            Oteoahdrr sheold   -sn fcle ecd  eae v-pce   sehn;sead
PepeIge_ seirn, c_lcoanigeItit  -                                                                            reqairet an.I......  Its, et. fou .ecr  of. epave  primar -cttetig  t
Pertisq. Ibe      di. s tetrult.oa   lan     I-eis ansd as  abvtoariccslan                     --oludel-.
eteands Age,, Stettote  f1 treoeoo  -Chile    014yas,webn-g                                       Onelade neohs"Isl,g ~indate2L,i orl ethe  pirege       q-Is whi    pera -te alest
60. years), ee.l rtired  tON yao  tod ...srY  as PorocoPthate  o  elI%9-vee  otto-              f detl, trbas  adeyteeo1 of slsidat c--i-eteyn.
ltham bithO  1970, i ed 1979l   deh.  Pet   ..   .   ae    .I-                           E UCAT-ION            aEs-elao   elsoeay-  g                       tdesseotldi
Pe.        -tletgsiCre it   chiefec .n . - natly  ftuectigrs  octi  tetofee    mid-         p.atiEoloaementoodetyi esc            vfd   yetr   fneeesi   h
phes  pepolatleom  1oo  90-0 .9i -70 n      nd                      ea9h70-76     r-oerespendieg  tleosfe.                                                         an  f-1
P stto    Oroet teem  oeref ... -ly Trh.c-ctoa  grwI           se  of uie  paa-            Adl lisesyet   eree       ieae   dla(beO   eladwie
latites for       .b.i.Ifth 1900-tO, 1960-TI,Iaol 1970-7. ernmeo   aa    bepploa    gdI  pearsdand aever.1
p tpolani .. 290,100,   aol 1971 lana.              -   1t   -tIaggrc,y.I  bodpndoc   dfet''7glhl    'p                                                      .ct..  
ptpoleian;  lbO   1970,t ia 0970 thda,                                                      oars..  -.-i c   .plt.   statin   les tP egtpsse;aollsslaey ee, Isrss  e
her etea k eptiurtive pettadtif. shet   .c saeilers treeg   agespe i Icfee                      lotenov...oa               thc    f-n  yaolrir)  - Al types  pfrteive    o  rd
tilip  rted    attly  fre-our  verges  tlig  ctlOh. 190,  ed lPO.      brapoass d      geoea.l, ..utic ..,Pot oatanl: of popala t-tis      cisdss. coPlt-
Pat Oionl-nscRol deic      -uoe -aCopites at nbtav-  fatil   1aoc               d pr_s.        ac   neisr dt   c   eed               er   ayOth   amatl                ama
Pamly Platocatt-etI(prceso   ttmarial teeo..-.oecerage-tVeco.ed                                                                                           IIao.i.ahIvchd  ltooalog
Pwotien  of  Shl-tarOng  mg (p 05t)- s hy lde al  use1 bi.rth-yoro  uakasoeog to               ThIloedo   trot hotastld pRolnis   - T  rerIver..   forc hoalee              ,t
ally seeecm  toner      d(5  ..   .                   , c-e id same ago   pcop.dgo tsr   .1 pobb dsperI-ousntppot                       ratisldetit        letelttreclee
CII1.t0      90    90   .d17    t.P1 NOOTOOc   oteoeten crat-bcreisr                                                                          tion  1ttTs         deets i   -f1et.di
P,p,l,ti,, C,-,th  ~~~~~at: ~~(p   tt-I -Not"aoerCcryc.as-gn Iaf `-oaa'idroolantu) - -htc the  varagedrroyl-
IoeoofFol  rocois   erCaic  t91-(=li)-Onoofpe.cp..                          eco             Ptram  af  n "daily dgon yel aevemtsdiwepdpeyCdefIee  fe ah.peeiono ph.
prelcotton  efHRae               t il  foAosc...s.      oloItesclclh  sen  end feed patl        Alictios -devoted  pni -etly  t    Letrl.tna genera  ewe. . Inis  enttds-t.d
ic  roesla   ea.ass f-o90ssoe90-0,adontsrte9          erao'god  lg7s8etn                       to he  daily"  if it fppetre dt lat  foco tim aes   tweet.
itatad    o  sua)slt                  n.teil  ee  aned hItfere(eg   roffeec no                  ieaAns   taleer th                rina oar) Psa...s.   no. nb. C.h"        o
ocy"tirsa    160l     170 aveag dpodos   7ra   deagta    191t,17.adOP ec
Pet. capitadscorlo oft -ela-ree feeroet of resh-cieseors)l Dnd .    .   ...   -.... Copoelfrm     olmai,cot,
eeeeg;eqoivtleer of net food ecyrlien available  ha coentry... .Il per  aptaI  ,oalioot.     eil
pee day.  Aplallte suppies  aplsedoeeir  prdeotio, ig-poita  lae                            Hoalf  laer  oct      thcel)-  rnmcal   ote  esm,  nidn
omens nsm   eimtl by  VOL he            _Se  hsaol    os6ft forD onoal  not-                    2d97f.Osme.
adse Adsriots   ofpeu         tiot.and alnc   1   emn  o   at tc        5t'                           g-ioere(eno   a - b Jaho  fPat In  andttg  foesey.   tle  and
Perl teetas_     o d ofa doen (seam  ice. lay  -. PrtI            ote   fptrpt                 adar   eret      ms              o ...eoofa, 'noeteutis  atsoaterit
eP s  sopl   offg   e   a.Nt  opyo   odi PIsficed at aboe.te                                  gel. tleoolty  otter eel gee Lydas. pe oyg   of totl .        l.h... fab te   1 961 1,
qormne   o  alccore   soliag   y.Tod. rotlafo,                           mete f-,d             b970eel  971       doe
tllwarfts  of 61  igramsgf toeal4 praef  peha.          ad2  gramsh-   of asPim..  eel      Pheiiatte ae  ern l  -                       -tl   moe  an  feme...  f-  ba...tipa.tt  to
Aceld Fod Scevep  1961-65  1970 ee  1977 les..0-se                                 trouad  of ethe pIeplcion, andc Ief tiss.m.   An fe            el
Pee. I  Fanle  Precrain oon   from aspima_I9and t.POlse-P nInde    suP .plyi,. -sod It-          tales5t  fro  netigeaa   soues.. 
eta   frmstoaelp_le   ngrn e tIsp; 191-60  1970 an eel 197  at.                             Enmo   IFoendennI ' Rato .      t.i.       peplao   adar..  15 eel 61 al soar
fhtd (ees1-l tsonlir  Ore  reenhosell     ucca  desheparthusad  l        i          ... t tallad    forte.                .... ..    tI,,,d . 
age gosa  I-A  ymrs, to   hildoesimthis ageI gop;   ry  atet. devSlopisgd lotieIs-...  t  ..t
terms daa-aivdfrelietals.062.97  tl197Ic..TCIADSTkTTI
.!.,,a    hlI   -  ~dli~ a,  .Ptj. ..tiect  (..g  -tf.  a      FaCoi- oag-  of.l Private Poom  (bothit.  ot-  eelhod -        N... sivt a hyrobe
atboth;16,17            Fd1978 dats.             111,  1~  ad17  dt,I
PAnsstOaePee(preto  (porenasso  -                        __al  rhe  elo_    a  -                 lhaelat  p-er   nealvlista   enolvlhem    ht       i
eate   quob vasltht fro   protertd   bor         ..... ep iag,   --enr  cells  at         TetiLABOR dFRCElaiePvrvLtm   es   11gtoes)-cA    e   as
peroestgee o       bhlt  esppoliva yarleia.   loan  urdle  area. ein       OinOt1lalorelative psho .y Otoo)  lEvel.. is one-Ithirdt  ao-regm pine  sple
do tothave  o opee  a dipropoNiot  proft        h1edyo   f-nos  theda                 ad octal       - - Pmonto  p-cetm   cbns  erel  whoare  'heeLts  00"
Atteam eo tenreta lisoosel losrosti at osoulcetot. - tutal. uo_thae. antd.P-bl.   196, 190 an
dispsa asd     anetgeo  thattohesc.ndias potpc...tioes.  teodet dilts-'.'I.  ftaIa, and Sto1tagl lat   Dieta1los                                                            .I
pesal  mods the  oomacio  eel diposal,  ith or.wit ot fresen,                                                 teomoaglsi .a                  . eeetioma Dh paemea
ofhamanasnodita eel wse:a-tete  hy1 attd t-ItrosIsystree orithe ose
Ott privtac  sod atailatOsehsllaPiooa.tOttohet  97NO                                                                                           8  aa



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78 -/                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.           %                                     1972/73-1977/78
GDP at Market Prices           8,279.1           100                                           8.0
Gross Domestic Investment    1,188.1            14.4                                          11.4
Gross National Saving            645.1           7.8                                          -2.6
Current Account Balance          542.0           6.5                                         -30.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            701.0           8.5                                          -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,437.0          17.4                                           9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added 2                   Labor Force 2/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         %              Mln.            %                US $               %
Agriculture                     1,681         41.2             3.25           68.7                517             59.9
Industry                          657         16.1             0.30            6.3             2,190             253.8
Services                        1,745         42.7             1.18           24.9             1,479             171.4
Total/Average              4,083       100.0              4.73          100.0               863            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                      % of GDP 3
Current Receipts                                 643                             15.4
Current Expenditure                              672                             16.1
Current Surplus                                  -29                             -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                          164                               4.4
External Assistance (net)                        238                              5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                     1974/75       1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79       1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                  292.5         369.6         530.0         669.1         877.0        1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government             212.8         300.8         466.0         593.5         913.7        1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and             296.7         393.3         432.5         490.8         652.9          814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)                21.1           1.6          17.9          16.7          37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   37.6          41.4          54.9          27.4          54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  48.4          32.6          10.0          13.5          33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
. Not applicable.
EA2DB
April, 1981



- 24 -                                      ANNEX 1
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78-79/80)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                         US $ Mln.      %
(Millions US $)
Exports Goods, NFS                708       701        699        833            Cotton                        315.7       56.7
Imports Goods, NFS              1,192     1,437      1,345      1,611            Gum Arabic                     38.3        6.9
Resource GAP                     -486      -736       -646       -779            Groundnuts                     39.6        7.2
Sesame                        41.3        7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)           -51       -51        -69        -49            Other                         122.5       21.7
Other Factor Payments (net)        --        --         --         --               Total                      557.4     100.0
Transfers                         173       221        240        209
Current Balance                  -362      -566       -475       -619
Public Grants                      11         24        17         84            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.           324       210        405        532
Public MLT Loans, amort.          -57       -66        -55        -90                                                US $ Mln.
Total Public, net                 267       144        350        442            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        2,100.2
Increase in Arrears               345       325        309         93            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          ____
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets          -2        76         -6         48 /a         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
(-   increase))
Errors and Omissions b/         -259         -3       -195        -48            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        35.0 d/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year) c/       23        22         27         33            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Million US $):
Annual Averages    End Period                                                        IBRD          IDA
1977     1978   Aug 79  Sep 79       Outstanding and Disbursed                     128.5         196.7
Undisbursed                                    30.7         326.3
Official:                                                   Outstanding incl  Undisbursed                 159.2        523.0
LSd 1 = US$         2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000
Effective:
LSd 1 = US$         2.500    2.225   2.000        --
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 = US$            --        --      --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS)  which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/subsidy
charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
April, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and eight Credits fully disbursed:                 127.2 117.4
Credit 364-2    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)             20.0       5.5
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                   10.0       4.9
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                       23.0       1.1
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         0.3
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance            4.0       1.1
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                     9.0       8.4
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation         20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development           17.0      16.8
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                     8.0       4.4
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                12.0    -        9.2
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                           22.0       7.4
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing            25.0      24.1
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III         16.0      15.6
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research          15.0      14.9
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                     41.0      33.9
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0     12.0
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0     55.3
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project            65.0      60.4
Credit 1022      1980    Sudan       New Halfa Rehab. Project       40.0      40.0
Credit 1118      1981    Sudan 1/   Blue Nile Pump Rehab. Proj.  32.0         32.0
Credit 1119      1981    Sudan 1/   White Nile Pump Rehab. Proj. 35.0         35.0
Total                                                  159.2 586.4
of which repaid                                       84.2   7.1
Total now outstanding                                   75.0 579.3
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                             5.8         -      -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                             75.0 579.3
Total Undisbursed                                       29.2 373.1    402.3
1/   Not yet effective.
21   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     (Amount in US$ Million,
Year                   Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972          Textiles                                    1.9    0.3       2.2
1976         Cotton Textile Mills                          8.7    1.3      10.0
1978         Seleit Food Production Ltd.                  11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.                6.7    1.4       8.1
1980         Promotional Cement Company                     -     0.2       0.2
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.4       32.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                     6.9    0.2        7.1
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.2       25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                      1.2    0.5       1.7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-four credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and           1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-2          and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project). Major project civil works have now been substantially completed on
some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans under cultivation; both are short
of the planned target of 300,000 feddans. Project implementation has been
delayed because of continuing managerial, financial and logistical problems,
cotton yields also have been disappointing and there is a service shortage of
labor for harvesting crops. The project is undergoing careful review in an
effort to identify mechanisms to minimize the risks to this and other projects
in the agricultural sector in the future.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some change
in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these difficulties.
Physical execution of the project is improving, with the award of the bulk of
the construction contracts, although transportation remains a constraint.
Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. The Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of
directors, removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced
them with ministerial under-secretaries.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), the closing date was December 31, 1980. Of
the original credit, US$1.9 million has been cancelled but US$0.3 million
remains in the project account to cover claims under qualified agreements to
reimburse. There have been problems with overall management responsibility
and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government's
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
All funds are fully committed.
Credit No. 643   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Loan No. 1287T   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion; in addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems.
Tenders for construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on
revised design and bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in
at levels greater than available financing. The future of this project is now
under discussion with the Government, including the possibility of cancellation.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, cannot be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. Appraisal of the consolidated
project has just been completed and the proposal will shortly be submitted
for consideration.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 727   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Loan No. 1467T   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development Fund.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The second Mechanized Farming project (Credit 311) was closed on
December 30, 1980 and an undisbursed balance of US$3.6 million cancelled on
March 5, 1981. The objectives of the third project are to (a) help present
users of mechanized farming methods become more productive, and (b) support
programs designed to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders.
These objectives will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the
extension activities of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of
adaptive trials and related research, access road building, importation of
spare parts for the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and
strengthening of the MFC. The project became effective eight months later
than expected. Late appointment of staff and delayed procurement will prevent
full implementation of agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81
season. A draft study of MFC's future functions is being discussed with
Governent.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed. USAID is considering additional funding.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has recently started. Selection of the
consultants for technical assistance to the Southern Region has been completed.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), will assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million will
supplement the program. This program is progressing well and the second
tranche has been approved for release by senior management.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022 New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: February 18, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1118 Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$32.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase cotton
export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing irrigation
schemes. The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC) and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation in the rest of the
BNAC area. The African Development Fund is confinancing.
Credit No. 1119 White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$35.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the irrigated subsector. It is designed to support the Govern-
ment-s Export Action Program. The White Nile project would help achieve this
objective by rehabilitating, over five-years, some 174 ongoing pump schemes
along the White Nile south of Khartoum.
Technical        Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance       Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
June 30, 1983
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification mission:   February 1980
(b) Appraisal: January/February 1981
(c) Negotiations Completed: April 12, 1981
(d) Planned date of credit effectiveness: September 4, 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Government to establish an Accounting Steering Committee by
September 1, 1981. The Committee would develop a uniform chart
of accounts and a set of Sudanese accounting and auditing standards
by September 1, 1983 (ref. para. 55).
(b) As a condition for disbursement of the accountancy training com-
ponent, the Government should provide adequate facilities for the
Institute of Accounting Studies (ref. para. 56).
(c) the Government to appoint by September 1, 1981, a Director of
the DMU whose qualifications and terms of reference would be
acceptable to the Association (ref. para. 59).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION AND PLANNING ACTIVITIES
An indicative list of project preparation activities to be financed
under the project has been agreed as follows:
-    Water Resources Utilization:  About eight man-months of consultancy
services required to prepare a detailed analytical report on various options
for future irrigation/power development together with priority listing and
cost-benefit evaluation. Report would include Roseires dam heightening,
relative priority of Upper Atbara project, impact of future water flows from
Jonglei canal.
-    Sugar Rehabilitation Program:  Detailed project preparation follow-
ing upon results of study currently underway under Technical Assistance I.
-    Rainfed Development:  Preparation of project based on feasibility
study in first Technical Assistance project.
-    Southern Region Development Strategy:  Broad-based report on pro-
blems and potential of Southern Region, including but not limited to agricul-
ture sector.
-    Cotton Marketing:  Detailed project preparation following on
export marketing study done as part of the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit 1000-SU).
-    Financial Intermediation:  Assessment of financial systems, followed
by a comprehensive analysis of constraints and potential in the industrial
sector. Report would provide basis for possible program loan.
-    Petroleum Development:  Detailed proposal for technical assistance
to Petroleum General Corporation including special technical assistance for
financial control system and regulation of concession areas.
-    Railway Maintenance:  Two studies required to help prepare for
fifth railway project -- (i) Detailed design of Sennar workshop; (ii) Com-
prehensive review of Sudan Railway Corporation-s maintenance facilities and
organization.
-    River Transport:  Preparation of project based on European Economic
Community feasibility study.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 2
-    Local Construction Industry:  Preparation of possible project
based on forthcoming UNIDO study report.
-    Technical Education:  Preparation of possible project based on
forthcoming study by Loughborough University.
-    In addition to the above activities, provision would be made for
establishment of a Water Development Planning unit in the Ministry of Irriga-
tion with the aim of formulating systematic water resource planning and
policies related thereto, including future priority projects.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 1
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Project Preparation Unit
Purpose
The Project Preparation Unit (PPU) will ascertain the need for
high priority studies required for the initiation and execution of development
projects in the Government's Public Investment Program. The PPU wil be
concerned with the administration of the funds earmarked for the Project to
finance project preparation work and the provision of technical assistance in
the execution of such work. In addition, the PPU will be responsible for
screening and monitoring all prefeasibility, feasibility and project prepara-
tion studies initiated by, or on behalf of the Government of Sudan. To enable
it to discharge its functions properly, the Unit will be expected to observe
the requirements outlined below:
(1) Organization and Staffing
The Unit, responsible to the Undersecretary, Ministry of National
Planning, will have a small permanent staff and will organize informal working
parties for work on individual sub-projects. Its staff will consist of:
(a) A Director;
(b) an alternate Director;
(c) three or more qualified staff members;
(d) on a part-time basis, as and when needed, members of the UNDP/IBRD
Planning Assistance Team, Sudanese experts from planning units in
different ministries and agencies and consultants; and
(e) secretarial and support staff.
The Director will be responsible for drawing up the work plan for the Unit and
for preparing and administering the funds earmarked for project preparation
activities under the Project, which, in turn, will be subject to approval by
the Undersecretary of Planning on behalf of the Minister.
(2) Coordination
In conducting its business, the Unit will work closely with other
sections of the Ministry of National Planning in establishing the economic
priority of sub-projects submitted to it, and with the ministries and



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 2
agencies responsible for the sub-projects in the analysis and supervision of
sub-projects. Consultation will also be necessary with the Association, the
UNDP and other organizations and agencies contributing funds for project
preparation purposes, to ensure coordination of all pre-investment activities.
(3) Procedure for Sub-Project Analysis
The Unit will ensure that all high priority projects are being
prepared appropriately by the responsible agency, and will be free to propose
financing of preparation work if necessary. The Unit will take the initiative
in establishing informal working parties for each sub-project submitted to it,
which will be subject to an initial review to determine their economic prio-
rity in the Borrower-s Public Investment Program. Once a sub-project has been
tentatively selected, the working party will supervise all subsequent work on
the sub-project. The working party will include, as appropriate, representa-
tives of ministries and agencies, representatives of prospective financing
organizations and agencies, and consultants employed to provide technical
expertise.
The working party will determine the nature and scope of the
studies required to prepare the sub-project for financing, will help to draw
up terms of reference for those studies and a schedule for their execution,
and in due course help to supervise the execution and evaluation of the
studies. Requirements for coordination with other ministries and agencies
would be identified and agreed with those agencies. If a financing organiza-
tion or agency has already been tentatively identified, it would be consulted
about the preparation requirements.
Prior to inviting proposals for the necessary studies, proposals
will be submitted to the Association and the Undersecretary of Planning for
approval.
The Unit will assist in evaluating proposals made for studies and
in negotiating contracts pertaining to the studies. Agencies and consultants
to execute the studies to be financed out of the funds made available by the
Association, and other contributing organizations and agencies would, with
respect to the studies financed by each such organization or agency, be
selected in accordance with the applicable procedures of said organization or
agency. The approval of the contributing agency will be required prior to the
signature of contracts for carrying out the studies.
(4) Supervision of Project Preparation Studies
The Unit will assist in the technical supervision of studies
being executed, will review progress reports, arrange for prospective finan-
cing agencies to be kept informed of the progress and assist in evaluating the
studies on completion.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 3
(5)  Terms of Reference for Sub-Projects
In drawing up terms of reference for sub-projects, the Unit will
ensure that the Project is analysed in all its facets and made ready for
appraisal by a financing agency. The scope of the studies required will vary,
depending on the nature of the preparatory work done prior to submission of
the sub-project to the Unit. It will be the Unit-s task to ensure that all
the available alternative solutions to an investment need are appropriately
analysed. The studies will, if necessary, extend to market analysis,
engineering and other technical analysis, including implementation plans,
analysis of investment and operating costs, the legal fiscal, and financial
conditions, and management, organization and manpower requirements. These
studies should also where appropriate, include analysis of the economics of
the project, as well as financial viability. The sub-project studies will
address the problems of implementing the project which emerges from them and
will propose solutions to overcome them.
(6) Training
A major objective of the Project will be to assist in establishing
an expanded body of expertise in the field of project selection and prepara-
tion in Sudanese official and private institutions. To this end, the Unit
will assist in establishing or fostering project preparation units in mini-
steries and agencies where appropriate. Wherever possible, Sudanese institu-
tions or experts will be associated with the agencies selected to execute the
studies, to provide an opportunity for these institutions to build up their
capacity for this type of work.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 3
Page 1
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Project Coordinating Committee
Purpose
The Project Coordinating Committee will coordinate activities being
financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project. To enable it to
discharge its supervisory functions properly, the Committee will be expected
to observe the requirements outlined below:
(1) Organization and Staffing
The Committee will consist of the following:
(a) Undersecretary, Ministry of National Planning as Chairman;
(b) Director of Accounts, Ministry of Finance;
(c) Director of Statistics, Ministry of National Planning;
(d) Director of Debt Management Unit;
(e) Representative of Department of Purchasing, Ministry of Finance;
(f) Director of the PPU.
(2) Responsibility and Procedure
The Committee will meet periodically to help ensure that all aspects
of the projects are being implemented in accordance with agreed procedures and
timetables.
The Committee will also be responsible for ensuring a high standard
of work by the Project Preparation Unit and adequate coordination with orga-
nizations and agencies assisting the Project.
(3) Proceedings
The Committee will keep adequate records and minutes of its discus-
sions and decisions.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 4
Page 1
SUDAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Accounting Steering Committee
Membership:
Members of the Accounting Steering Committee to be appointed by
the Minister of Finance should include:
-    The Auditor General
-    The Director of Accounts in the Ministry of Finance
-    A high level representative of the Ministry of Planning
-    Representatives of the Sudan accounting profession
Terms of Reference:
(1)  Approve the selection and appointment of expatriate experts
to assist the Institute of Accounting Studies;
(2)  Approve the selection and appointment of fellowship
recipients;
(3)  Establish a Sudanese Accounting Profession.  The Committee
will work with a legal expert of the Ministry of Justice on
drafting a charter for a Sudanese Institute of Professional
Accountants and other appropriate legislation. It will also
define educational requirements for admission to the Profession
and administer examinations.
(4)  Liaise with the Project Coordinating Committee
(5)  Develop a uniform chart of accounts which should become
mandatory for all parastatals and eventually be adopted by
private sector enterprises;
(6)  Plan the procedures and administrative steps necessary for
the development of Sudanese accounting and auditing standards.



INSTITUTF OF ACCOfltTINC STUDIES
PreLr-tro  Irelnin. Prograa  iter Fxpnsion
Population of                                                         frequired No. of
PotentIal Clients    Number In         Number of           Intensity of Coure   Duration of   Instructors (Full   Nos. Traned   No  of Cl_-
Courses to be Offered                       P,tential Client           Each Year              Each Course    Courses Annually  (hours per veek)          Course          tse equivalent)    Annuall            roo_ Required
Course Po.
01     Introduction to Sudanese        Newly-hirsd governmrL            2,200                 120                3           36 hours/week-             3 months            6-                 360
Governeental ACct4.          .rcountafnts, government
ucccuntants. governmnt
clerks to be trained as
accountoant
02     Introductlon to Bookkeeping   tigh school graduate.              3,000                 120                3           36 hours/veek             3 soothe             6                  360               3
I; introductory course        clerks snd other . ployeas
for comerciel and indus-   to be trained ns book-
trial bookkteping             keepers, especially elso
employees of parastatal
companies
03     Introduction of Bookkeeping   Graduates of 02  nd                1,500                  so                3           36 hours/week             3 onths              4                 240                2
and Acctg. II (continua-    coiercial hbib *chool
tion of 02)                   gradustes w/ experience
04     roundations of Accounting        Graduates of 02. grad-          1,500                 120                1           18 hour/weekt             9 tonthb            4.5                 1202
(Aectg. toehnfcisne           uates of the University
diploma course)               of Cairo. Khartous br..
government and parasta-
tel accountantt
05     Professional Accounting          Accounting technicians          1.200            40 + 40                 2           18 hours/mek             18 months             4                  40                1    c
Univ. of Khartoum and
2iharrous Polytechnic
graduates, auditor general.
personnel and governmnt
accountants
06     AudIting of FarestatAls          Auditor glneral. profe-
and govt. institutions       ssional staff                      700                  a                            18 hours/wek                                   *               60-100               1
07     Sudanese Covern.ental            Graduates of 01 and             3.000                   a                *        * 16 hour/veek                   5 
Accouate. System  and        experienced govornaotal                                                                                                                                                   I
Procedures                   accountents
0d     Other continuing edvca-          Accountants working, the        5,000                                    a                                         a *
tion courses for             private and public sector                                                                                                                                                 I
accountrnts and              and others                                                                                                                                                               14
others
1/  This includes tutorials and problem solving sessions
2/ Assuming a class size of 40 students and a teaching lood of 18 hours per week
3/ Assuming a class size of 40 students and * teaching load of 12 hours per week
J/  Aasuming a class sixe of 40 students and a teaching loed of 9 hours per week
*   Thbse courses are yet to be de eloped.  Nuber, length and intensity are therefore not yet determined.



