Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25076
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31430; IDA-31431)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.5 MILLION
(US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
REGULATORY REFORM SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
January 7, 2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of November 2002)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs$ 7.41 = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP          Private Pension Fund Administrator
AP           Administrative Procedures (Law)
BOLIVIDA     Non-hereditary annuity derived from capitalization shares for elder Bolivians
BONOSOL      Solidarity Bond
BCB          Central IDA of Bolivia
CAF          Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CONFIP       Prudential Financial Norms Consultative Group
DGF          Deposit Guarantee Fund
FCC          Collective Capitalization Fund
FERE         Debt Restructuring Funds
FSF          Financial System Strengthening (Law)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GSM          Group Special Mobile
IDA          International Development Association
MOP          Memorandum of the President
PCP          Popular Credit and Property (Law)
PCS          Personal Communications System
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PROFOB       IDA Strengthening Program
PSA          Popular Shares Account
RRPTAC       Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Loan
RRSAC        Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit
SBEF         Superintendency of IDAs and Financial Entities
SIRESE       System for Sectorial Regulation
SPVS         Superintendency of Insurance, Pension and Securities
YPFB         Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Hermann von Gersdorff



BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             36
Annex 8. President's Report on Release of Second Tranche                          37
Map: 31131






Project ID: P057030                                      Project Name: REG REFORM ADJ CREDI
Team Leader: Hermann A. Von Gersdorff                    TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 7, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                          IC/TIFNumber: IDA-31430;
IDA-31431
Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (60%);
Telecommunications (8%); General energy sector
(16%); General transportation sector (8%); General
water/sanitation/flood protection sector (8%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/23/1998                              Effectve: 12/30/1998          12/28/1998
Appraisal:  10/12/1998                               MTR:
Approval:  11/19/1998                             Closing: 12/31/2000         07/31/2002
Borrower/ImplementingAgency: REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Marcelo Giugale                          Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                       Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:  Hermann A. Von Gersdorff
ICR Primary Author:  Manuel Lasaga; Hermann A.
Von Gersdorff
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, Hf=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, gand of Qualty at Entiry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit (RRSAC) was prepared at the beginning of the
Banzer Administration, when the Government had a broad multi-party coalition that represented
an ample majority in Congress. At that time the reform agenda of the new Government was highly
ambitious, aimed at deepening financial sector reforms, strengthening the regulatory functions of
the state, and promoting competition. This project built on the success of the Intemnational
Development Assocation (IDA) previous Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, which had
assisted the Government with the divestiture of public sector enterprises under the rubric of the
so-called "capitalization" program. Under that scheme, the Government had transferred about half
of its ownership interest in several strategic enterprises to foreign investors, in return for their
commitment to invest in the expansion of basic infrastructure services and to manage these
enterprises profitably, while the rest of the shares were to be transferred to Bolivian citizens. Thus
the capitalization program resulted in the transfer of five of the six largest firms to private
management. A parallel privatization program transferred over 50 smaller enterprises to the
private sector.
One of the goals of the new Administration of President Banzer was to strengthen the regulatory
environment in order to ensure the sustainability of private investment, not only in the newly
capitalized sectors, but in other productive sectors of the economy. The opening up of the
electricity, telecommunications, pension funds, and hydrocarbons markets called for renewed
efforts to improve the regulatory environment, which had been formally in operation only a few
years. The new Government also needed to address its own questions regarding the appropriate
role for these agencies; and IDA thus offered to work with the Government to map out an
effective strategy for the development of the regulatory environment that would be conducive to
private sector development.
The Govermment's strategy included actions to further enhance the efficiency and stability of the
financial system, key factors in the sustainability of the savings - investment process. Periodic
banking crises in the past had compromised the ability of the financial system to support economic
growth. At the same time, the cost to the government of bailing out insolvent institutions had
aggravated the Government's tight fiscal position. The high bailout costs in turn resulted from
legal obstacles that prevented banking regulators from assuming a proactive role in preventing
banking problems or in effecting their quick resolution.
Original Objectives:
The Project's overall objective was to encourage private sector-led growth through domestic and
foreign private investment. The project's specific development objectives were to: (i) maintain an
independent regulatory system which facilitates economic efficiency in the financial and key
infrastructure sectors, and thus promotes competition and investment; (ii) strengthen the stability
and the efficiency of the financial sector to support economic growth; and (iii) improve the
-2-



coverage, quality, and productivity of key infrastructure services with appropriate tariff structures
to encourage investment in these sectors and thus contribute to increased productivity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised but waivers were granted before disbursement of the second
tranche (see Annex 8)
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve these objectives, the credit focused on strengthening the institutional framework that
regulated basic infrastructure and financial sector services. Most of the components dealt with the
enactment of laws and regulations to enhance the ability of regulators to comply with their
responsibilities, while providing safeguards and minimum quality standards for consumers. The
principal components of the credit included the following:
Maintain the Independence and Effectiveness of the Regulatory System
o     Enact an Administrative Procedures Law (AP Law) that sets the basis for an improved
relationship between citizens and the Government based on clear and well defined administrative
procedures.
a     Submit a draft Competition Law to Congress aimed at preventing anti-competitive
behavior and facilitating market exit through a more efficient bankruptcy resolution process.
a     Establish a consultative group to coordinate the development of norms for those sectors
governed by the System for Sectoral Regulation (SIRESE). As part of the institutional
strengthening program supported by the RRSAC, regulatory agencies would adopt employment
benchmarks to ensure adequate staffing relative to the demands for the agencies' services, and
adopt a comprehensive Code of Conduct to maintain high ethical standards and to prevent abuses
of conflict of interest.
Strengthen the Financial Sector
a     Enact the Popular Credit and Property Law (PCP: Ley de Propiedady Credito Popular),
which was a condition for Board approval, as an important first step in the strengthening of the
financial sector. This law was to address a number of diverse issues such as limiting the role of the
Central IDA to monetary policy, establishing a coordinating body to prepare and approve
prudential regulations for banking, securities, pensions, and insurance (CONFIP), and improving
the performance of the pension system.
a     Enact the Financial System Strengthening Law (FSF: Ley del Fortalecimiento del Sector
Financiero). This law was to be an amendment to the comprehensive banking law of 1993 and
would seek to strengthen internal and external governance of financial institutions, create a
comprehensive failure resolution framework cum deposit guarantee system, and incorporate the
non-IDA financial intermediaries within the same legal norm.
(Due to sequencing and timing issues that affected the financial sector reform agenda, the principal measures were
developed within two separate pieces of legislation: the PCP and the FSF laws)
-3-



o     Implement new regulations dealing with loan classification and reserves against losses that
are compatible with international practices.
O     Ensure that a Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF) is operational and that a strict limit has been
established regarding the amount of deposit subject to the guarantee.
Improve Infrastructure Services
o     Enact the Transport Concessions Law that will facilitate the granting of rights to develop
new infrastructure or to maintain existing infrastructure through concessions. This was based on
the view that new roads and their maintenance will be developed more efficiently through
concession contracts.
o     Enact the Basic Sanitation Law and issue the corresponding regulations. In addition,
appoint the head of the Superintendency of Sanitation and cause the Superintendency to enter into
six concession agreements with eligible water and sanitation providers.
O     Amend the Electricity Law to enable the Superintendency of Electricity to regulate electric
power distribution and to cause the Superintendency to enter into four concession agreements
with eligible electricity providers.
o     Ensure the entry of two new personal communications services providers through a
concessions agreement with the Superintendency of Telecommunications.
o     Divest the residual assets pertaining to Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos'
(YPFB) downstream operations.
In order to build the institutional capacity to implement the reform program, and to prepare the
laws and regulations for the financial, infrastructure and business sectors, IDA approved a parallel
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (RRPTAC) in June 1998. The
RRPTAC was an integral part of the RRSAC in terms of project output, since it provided a
technical base for the elaboration and implementation of the reform program supported by the
RRSAC.
Assessment
The objectives of this project were reasonable and consistent with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The RRSAC was an integral part of IDA's CAS, which was presented to the
Board of Directors in June 1998. Specifically, this project addressed the CAS goals of: (i)
strengthening of the fnancial sector; (ii) enhancing the regulatory framework for infrastructure
and business; and (iii) improving physical infrastructure through increased public sector
management capacity and private sector participation. The timing of the RRSAC was ideal since
it coincided with the entry of a new Government.
- 4-



Design of the Regulatory Component
The RRSAC was designed as a follow up to previous market reforms, such as the capitalization
program, which affected most of the country's key infrastructure services, and the liberalization of
the financial sector. As the private sector's share of the economy expanded, regulators were
expected to play an increasingly important role in safeguarding the integrity of the markets as well
as assuring equal access to all participants. The goal of the RRSAC was thus to upgrade the
quality of the legal and regulatory institutions and to boost their credibility in order to attract
more investments. Independence from political interference is what gives the regulator credibility;
and this project was designed to foster the independence of the financial and infrastructure
regulators. At the same time, it is important to strike a balance between the need to empower the
regulatory agency with the necessary tools to enforce the rules of the game, while preventing its
interference in the marketplace. The design of this project fully reflected these concerns.
The AP Law was aimed at making the Government responsible for its actions through clear and
explicit rules governing the administration of public affairs. It was to define the administrative
procedures for decision-making, and to give citizens the power to challenge these decisions
through appeals. The appeals process was to be based on a clearly defined timetable, and on
accessible hierarchical platforms for the resolution of each case. The goal of this legislation was to
limit Government officials' discretion in making administrative decisions by providing an explicit
road map for their actions.
The other major legislative initiative was the presentation to Congress of a Competition Law. The
Law was to provide a minimum framework for competitive practices across the economy using a
minimum of Government intervention. This law was envisioned as a general framework to assure
competitive behavior in the private sector with appropriate safeguards for the rights of consumers.
While well focused, passage of this law would have required that the Government undertake a
series of regulatory and institutional changes that were not part of the reform agenda at that time.
For example, in order to improve bankruptcy system, new provisions were needed in the
Commercial Code. Further progress was needed in terms of the business environment such as
streamlining the process for creation of a corporation, strengthening corporate govemance,
enhancing disclosure of information, and establishing effective legal mechanisms for dispute
resolution, before an effective Competition Law could be implemented. In this regard, perhaps the
RRSAC agenda dealing with the Competition Law may have been too ambitious. Rather than
calling for creation of the Law, the project could have included a series of steps to improve the
corporate environment, such as bankruptcy resolution, while at the same time, allow some of the
other reforms of the regulatory agencies contained in this project time to evolve operationally
before writing a law on competition. At the same time, the Borrower felt it was going to take
much more time than originally envisioned to build up political consensus for the passage of a
Competition Law.
While the goal of this project was to support the independence of the regulatory agencies, there
was a need for a mechanism that would allow coordination and consultation regarding new norms
and regulations between the executive branch and the regulatory agencies. To this end, the
Government was to establish a consultative group that would coordinate between the executive
branch and the relevant regulatory agencies in the development of norms and regulations. The
-5 -



regulatory consultative group was modeled after the financial sector coordinating council
CONFIP (Comite de Normas Financieras de Prudencia) established in 1998 with the passage of
the PCP Law, which included the Central IDA, the Superintendencies of banling and of Pensions,
Securities and Insurance. This initiative was well designed to enhance the efficiency and relevancy
of the regulatory system and thus contribute to more orderly behavior in the regulated sectors.
The regulatory agencies were committed under the program to achieve the highest level of quality
and professional integrity of its staff by establishing criteria to determine the appropriate staffing
size and to enact Codes of Conduct in line with the best international practices. The design of this
component addressed several areas of concern for the Borrower, first, the regulatory agencies
were supposed to operate with a lean staff, to avoid the burden of a bulging bureaucracy, while at
the same time offering their staff a competitive compensation package, comparable to those
offered by the regulated firms, otherwise it would be difficult to retain them. However, the
Government was concerned that other public sector employees would press for similar
compensation policies. This underscored the challenges faced by the Government as it sought to
promote a more active role for the regulatory agencies while dealing with other stakeholders who
opposed the growing influence of these regulatory agencies in the economy. With the support of
the technical assistance, staffmg studies for the agencies were carried out that established
internationally accepted standards of staffing. Other studies helped define The Code of Conduct.
The Code of Conduct was an important antidote for corruption.
Design of the Financial Sector Component
The RRSAC's financial sector strategy addressed recurrent problems in banking system as well as
the need to deepen reforms in the pension system and in the securities markets. These objectives
were congruent with the overall goal of promoting greater investment by reducing the
uncertainties associated with periodic banking system crises and by expanding the time horizon in
the capital markets.
While the liberalization of banking sector in the 1980s was accompanied by extraordinary growth
in IDAs' balance sheets, it was not accompanied by an equivalent growth in their capital base.
Lending was overambitious, carried out without the necessary prudence and diligence. The results
were periodic and serious crises of confidence in the sector. For example, during 1987-88, five
IDAs were intervened; in 1991, three IDAs; and in 1994, two IDAs. At the same tirme,
cumbersome operational and legal proceedings prevented the authorities from dealing effectively
with troubled IDAs. The status of most of IDAs intervened during the above mentioned periods
is still indeterminate due to legal challenges against the Superintendency. Banking troubles
resurfaced in late 1997 at the time IDA had initiated preparation of the RRSAC, at which time the
authorities decided to liquidate another large IDA, BIDESA. When the Central IDA announced
that depositors of BIDESA were to receive only up to the equivalent of US$5,000, there was a
run on another IDA, Banco Santa Cruz, which was eventually sold to the Spanish financial group
Santander Central Hispano. This experience underscored the need for the Superintendency to
have greater authority to act at the very earliest signs of IDA problems.
The specific goals of banking sector reform program supported by the RRSAC were to: (i)
improve the institutional arrangements and strengthen the regulatory agency; (ii) upgrade
-6-



prudential regulations, including loan classifications and reserves for losses, non-credit risks, and
capital standards; (iii) strengthen the internal and external governance of IDAs; (iv) apply banking
rules and regulations to non-IDA intermediaries; and (v) establish a comprehensive failure
resolution framework, with legal protection for regulators, in the context of a deposit guarantee
fund. The two key legislations that were crafted to meet these goals were the PCP and the FSF.
The condition dealing with the Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF) called for the establishment of an
explicit limit on the amount of each deposit account covered by the guarantee. However, the
experience of Banco Santa Cruz, at the time of credit appraisal, indicated that this would be a
very difficult step to take. Perhaps greater flexibility regarding a phase-in period and a more
generous amount for the guarantee should have been considered. It is more important to have a
mechanism in place, even with a flexible budget constraint, than to impose a figure which could
create the impression that depositors would take a significant hit on their savings. At the same
time, it is likely to be less disruptive to introduce an explicit deposit guarantee when banking
system is operating under normal conditions. With a phase-in period, depositors would have time
to spread their deposits throughout banking system without triggering a stampede. Perhaps the
biggest challenge for the establishment of an explicit deposit guarantee was the long-standing
precedent in Bolivia that the Government always guaranteed the full amount of deposits.
The RRSAC appropriately addressed key weaknesses in banking system. The design was based on
a well-balanced view of the system and its cyclical characteristics. However, one area that should
have received more attention was the high degree of dollarization, or use of the US$ as a unit of
account in banking system. The project did emphasize the importance of interest rate, liquidity
and maturity risks, but it did not focus on the linkages between these risks and the use of US$
denominated assets and liabilities. On paper, IDAs can show a zero currency gap, meaning that
foreign currency denominated assets are equal in value to foreign currency denominated liabilities.
In the case of the Bolivian banking system, a large proportion of US$ denominated deposits are
not backed by actual US$ assets, but rather by US$ denominated loans and other investments.
Many US$ borrowers do not have the capacity to earn foreign exchange. In the event of a
devaluation, the credit risk of the US$ denominated portfolio would rise significantly, this could
also compromise a IDA's liquidity position. More attention to this issue during project design
would have been advisable.
Design of the Infrastructure Services Component
Through the capitalization program, most of the major utility and infrastructure companies under
public ownership were transferred to the private sector. From a regulatory standpoint, the
objective to strengthen the SIRESE frameworkc still lacked some sector-specific components that
were needed in order to improve coverage, quality and productivity of infrastructure services in
the transportation, water, electricity, telecommunications, and hydrocarbons sectors. In the case
of transportation, water, and electricity, the program called for sector specific legislation to
upgrade the institutional arrangements and thus attract private investors, as envisioned in the
overall goal of this project.
The improvement in the coverage and quality of services was to be managed through concession
contracts between the respective sector Superintendency and the operators. These contracts
-7 -



would establish a common set of rules and standards that would be applied at the national level.
These agreements would include service quality and expansion targets with explicit rules
governing the adjustment of tariffs and other fees.
The expansion of infrastructure services to local communities was a complex undertaking. Most
public services at the local level are provided by cooperatives and some municipal companies. The
majority of these cooperatives and municipal enterprises have poor performance records, lack
investment capital to expand service coverage and improve quality of services, and are not under
effective supervision by either their members or the sector superintendencies. Despite these
challenges, the use of concession agreements was an effective mechanism to formalize service
standards for the smaller communities. However, the RRSAC failed to address the basic
performance problem in that the effectiveness of the concession agreement was dependent on the
ability of the cooperative to undertake significant restructurings in their operations, and for their
management to adopt new operating techniques. IDA's approach to these problems was to focus
on the legal organizational structures such as the conversion from a cooperative to a corporation,
or the formation of new corporations with the cooperatives as shareholders; that would help draw
investors. But the problem was a lack of know-how by the cooperatives which required extensive
training as well as financial resources. In this regard, IDA could have considered a different
approach in terms of a technical assistance component to help the cooperatives improve their
management capabilities and to develop the technical expertise to be able to comply with the
principal requirements of a concession agreement.
While the RRSAC did not include measures targeted exclusively at the poor, its implementation
was expected to benefit the poor by generating medium-term employment and improving access
to finance. At the same time, the component to imnprove the coverage and quality of infrastructure
services in smaller rural communities was also expected to contribute some relief to the poor.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
FIRST TRANCHE; US$20,000,000.00 equivalent; HS
SECOND TRANCHE (W/O REFLOWS); US$20,000,000.00 equivalent; S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory. As explained in the previous section, the design of
the project objectives was highly relevant in terms of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. In some
aspects the conditions contained in this project were second generation reforms, which were
aimed at consolidating and strengthening the successful capitalization program. The structuring of
the project into three objectives, within the overall goal of increasing investment in the economy,
was well balanced. While separate, the three objectives blended together very well. The
independence and credibility of the regulatory system would impact the stability of the financial
system as well as the provision of infrastructure services, yet the actions contemplated for each
objective were well focused. Preparation of the project was done efficiently by competent and
well-experienced teams at IDA and in the Bolivian Government
-8 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the RRSAC is considered satisfactory. This is attributed to the quality of
design, to the persistence of IDA's supervision, and commitment by the Borrower, despite
political opposition to several key pieces of legislation. The relevance of the project's design and
efficiency of its implementation contributed to its successful outcome. The parallel technical
assistance loan was instrumental in supporting the preparatory work for the drafting of the
necessary laws and regulations. This section discusses the outcome and achievement of objectives
first, and then concludes with an assessment of the implementation experience, and the project's
output.
Notwithstanding the satisfactory outcome, implementation of the project had to overcome some
important hurdles which led to delays in the closing date from December 2000, to July 2002. In
June 2000, IDA downgraded project implementation to Unsatisfactory, due to delays in meeting
conditionality. One of the principal reasons for the delays was the weakening of the Government's
political position. The so-called "water war" in Cochabamba in April 2000 had a profound effect
on the Government and its coalition in Congress. The subsequent failing health of President
Banzer and his eventual resignation in August 2001, also contributed to the lag in program
implementation. The passage of several pieces of legislation, Administrative Procedures Law,
Financial Law, etc., contemplated in this project was delayed as opposition in Congress
intensified. The project was subsequently downgraded to Unsatisfactory, in June 2001, as IDA
concluded that the Government would not be able to comply with key conditions dealing with the
passage of legislation by the then planned closing date of September 2001. Once the political
deadlock was overcome at the end of 2001, several important pieces of legislation were approved,
which put the project back on satisfactory status and thus paved the way for a new closing date of
July 2002. In the end, three waivers were requested out of the 14 conditions for second tranche
release (see Annex 8).
Another challenge to getting congressional support for passage of key pieces of legislation, the
Administrative Procedures Law, the Financial Sector Strengthening Law, and the subsequent
change to the Basic Sanitation Law was the deterioration in the economic environment since
1999. With a weakened economy, social demands began to take on greater priority in terms of
Congress' agenda. Whereas at the time of credit approval the economy was expanding at a
healthy pace, the subsequent downturn led to a change in the political agenda, which placed
greater emphasis on social conditions and on measures to jump start the economy. This was an
instrumental factor in the delays experienced during the implementation phase.
A weakened government, constrained by shrinking fiscal resources, was unable to encourage
private sector investments, which could have triggered the desired recovery in economic activity.
The fallout from the economic crisis in Argentina also added to Bolivia's economic problems.
On the other hand, the successful outcome for this project may have actually helped to cushion
the impact from the downturn in the economy. By maintaining the effectiveness of the regulatory
system, this project helped to maintain the viability of infrastructure services by preventing
abusive practices during harsh times. The improvements to the financial sector regulatory system
-9.



have strengthened the capacity of the regulators to deal with any further deterioration in the
economic environment and allowed the liquidation of an IDA, Banco Boliviano Americano,
without a run on banking system. The improvement in infrastructure services should help
consumers maintain their access to these essential services; otherwise, difficult economic
conditions could have resulted in cutbacks in services.
The three waivers required to meet the second tranche conditions did not materially alter the
successful outcome of this project. As explained below, one of them did compromise the outcome
for one of the sub-components of the infrastructure services objective, mainly the basic sanitation
sector. However, the other two were of a secondary order of importance. One of those two
waivers only partially affected the objective of strengthening the financial sector. The condition
called for the establishment of a deposit guarantee fund with an explicit limit on the amount of the
guarantee. The Borrower did establish a financial restructuring fund that fulfilled all the
requirements of a deposit guarantee fund except that of a fixed monetary limit on the guarantee.
Due to the likelihood that imposition of a deposit guarantee limit would trigger depositor runs on
financial institutions, and in view of the weak condition of IDA during the time of credit
implementation, strict compliance with this condition could have actually destabilized the fimancial
system, thus undermining the credit's objective.
The other waiver involved the privatization of the residual YPFB assets. Out of the remaining
YPFB assets slated for sale, the liquid gas bottling plant and the natural gas networks were not
privatized. The first case was due to a pending subsidy on the price of liquid gas, and the second
was due to a lack of investor interest in the natural gas distribution network under the terms
offered by the Government. The weak economy and political uncertainties regarding the
Presidential elections were also relevant factors explaining the lack of success in the privatization
of these two operations. This component of the project was actually unfinished business from a
previous IDA project, the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, which had promoted the
comprehensive privatization of the hydrocarbons sector.
The setbacks suffered by this operation had already been identified at the time of credit design and
approval. According to the President's Report, the principal risks to the RRSAC were: (i)
politically motivated dilution of reforms through resistance by stakeholders; (ii) external shocks
transmitted through potential crises in Bolivia's trading partners; (iii) introduction of an explicit
deposit guarantee ceiling; and (iv) the technical challenges of implementing an ambitious reform
program addressing complex reforms in multiple sectors in the economy. As it turned out, the first
three risks were realized; but were dealt with in a satisfactory manner. The tenuous nature of the
political coalition that supported President Banzer proved to be a hindrance to some of the project
objectives dealing with the passage of legislation. The severity of the external shock from the
Argentinean crisis was much worse than envisaged at the time of credit design. Finally, concerns
about possible contagion effects from a tight limit on the amount of deposit guarantee at a time of
weak economic conditions, did not allow its adoption at the time the FSF law was approved.
-10-



Outputs by Program Component
Outcome in the Macroeconomic Environment
In spite of the difficult current economic and social situation, the macroeconomic policy
framework of Bolivia is deemed satisfactory by the IMF based on their most recent review of the
program. Bolivia has been hit by a series of shocks mostly occurring in the late 1990s, after the
RRSAC had become operational. The main external shocks have been (a) recession in trading
partner economies and drop in remittances from about one million Bolivians living in Argentina;
(b) a 40 percent drop in international capital inflows associated with a weakening global economy
and the severe crisis in Argentina; (c) devaluations in trading partner countries, e.g., Argentina,
Brazil and Chile; (d) deterioration of key export prices, e.g., zinc (22 percent), tin (25.4 percent),
silver (11.2 percent) and gold (6.3 percent); (e) the weather shocks associated with La Niia in
1999 and El Ninio in 2001 and the consequent increase in natural disasters, which has accelerated
erosion and desertification; (f) the global economic downturn; and (g) the negative short- to
medium-term impact from Bolivia's successful coca eradication program. While some of these
factors had already been identified as potential risks to the project, their timing or scope could not
have reasonably been predicted.
The macroeconomic situation in Bolivia further deteriorated in 2001 with only a gradual recovery
expected in 2002. While continued rapid growth of natural gas production led to an estimated 1.2
percent increase in real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2001, output declined in other sectors.
Inflation has remained low, 0.9 percent, in part due to declining domestic demand. The 2001
budget deficit widened considerably, due to a significant drop in revenues and continued high
costs of the pension reform. It closed at 6.5 percent of GDP, considerably higher than the original
IMF target of 3.7 percent. This deficit has been financed largely by an increase in domestic debt,
and also by increased non-concessional external financing mainly from the Corporaci6n Andina de
Fomento (CAF). The projected GDP growth for 2002 is 2 percent, mainly related to a very large
increase in gas exports (less than 1 percent for the non-gas economy).
On the financial front, banking activity continues to contract, and IDA performance indicators
remain weak and unevenly distributed among IDAs. On the extemal front, competitiveness of
Bolivian products has dropped because of devaluations in neighbor countries-Argentina's being
the most recent one-in spite of the recent acceleration in the Boliviano rate of depreciation.
Bolivia's economic difficulties have been reflected in increasing unemployment and
under-employment. The unemployment rate increased to at about 8.5 percent in 2001; however,
roughly 15 percent of total employed workers are under-employed. As a result of the economic
crisis, the labor force is switching from formal sector to informal sector activities, to date about
52 percent of total workforce is employed in the informal sector. Higher unemployment led to
increasing social unrest, which is estimated by the govermnent to have caused about US$116
million in economic damages during 2001.
Bolivia is in its third annual Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the
IMF. All quantitative performance criteria for January-June 2002 were observed. Bolivia's PRGF



is not expected to be completed, as there is little prospect for implementation of a key structural
prior action, i.e., passage of a new Tax Code. The Tax Code is central to the PRGF-supported
structural agenda because of its importance for making the reform of the National Tax Service
effective, and for mobilizing fiscal revenues. The interim informal agreement with the IMF on a
shadow financial program for 2002 helped authorities resist pressures for increasing expenditure
during the election period that ended in June 2002.
Outcome in Maintaining the Independence and Effectiveness of the Regulatory System
The independence and effectiveness of the regulatory system has been supported by the reforms
contained in the RRSAC. The principal outcomes in this component included:
o The Government has continued to support the independence of the regulatory agencies. While
much progress has been made, SIRESE is a relatively young system that needs more time to
mature. The selection of the head of the agencies by Congress contributed to the
institutionalization of the regulatory system.
o  Passage of the Administrative Procedures Law has enhanced the credibility of the regulatory
system and extended its principles to other areas of government action beyond the financial
system and the infrastructure sectors. This law provides the framework upon which
regulations, once issued, will establish clear procedures for all aspects of public sector
administration.
o The institutional improvement in regulatory aaencies has contributed to their effectiveness.
The regulatory institutions in Bolivia are relatively new, particularly SIRESE, which was
established in the mid-1990s. These institutions have made better than expected progress in
regulating key sectors of the economy. Legislative and organizational reforms supported by the
RRSAC have enhanced the independence and effectiveness of these agencies. Nevertheless, there
are still lingering signs of political interference in the regulatory process. For example, after
SIRESE had successfully defended consumer interests regarding over-charging by
telecommunications companies, including all available appeals, a change in the
telecommunications law subsequently allowed these companies to reinstate their charges. In the
case of banking sector Superintendency, there is still some hesitation to act in the case of
technically insolvent IDAs due to concerns about possible political consequences. While the
quality of the staff at the regulatory agencies has made impressive strides, they still need to make
further progress in terms of asserting their credibility.
The submission to Congress of the Competition Law should contribute in the future to further
strengthening of the regulatory environment. Nevertheless, as explained in the previous section,
some additional institutional development work may have been useful in preparation for passage
of this legislation
Outcome in Strengthening the Financial Sector
As a result of the passage of legislation and the implementation of more strict prudential norms,
- 12 -



the financial sector now counts with miore appropriate mechanisms to deal with domestic and
external shocks. Without these reforms, banking regulators would not have been able to flag the
build up in problem loans that occurred when the economy began to weaken in 1999; this hidden
problem would then have likely detonated a major systemic crisis; instead, banking
superintendency has been able to intensify its examination of IDAs and demand corrective actions
that could prevent another crisis. The principal achievements in support of this goal are:
o  Enacted more strict loan classification norms. thus contributing to better disclosure of asset
quality, and hence to greater stability of the financial system.
o Passage of the PCP and FSF Laws has greatly enhanced the regulatory tools to deal with
problem IDAs. particularly the ability to close down and liquidate insolvent institutions. The
PCP Law established an important coordinating committee of policyymakers and regulators
that will facilitate the design of key norms and regulations. The FSF Law establishes an
elaborate and legally fortified mechanism for the Superintendency to close down and liquidate
insolvent institutions.
o  Passage of the FSF Law consolidated all depository institutions into one regulatory
framework. thus assuring a level plaing field for all intermediaries. as well as preventing
speculative regulatory arbitrage that could have destabilizing consequences for non-IDA
intermediaries.
In part due to the successful implementation of the above financial regulation measures, the
reported profitability and the lending portfolio of banking system has worsened since 1998.
However, thanks to the same reforms supported by the RRSAC, the Superintendency has more
instruments at its disposal to prevent another systemic crisis. The deterioration in the balance
sheets of IDAs is in large part due to the more stringent asset quality standards imposed by the
regulators in 1999 as agreed under the RRSAC. Thus the worsening is actually an "improvement"
in the sense that IDAs are now being more realistic in how they disclose information about their
operations. If the more strict norms had not been in place, it is very likely that the quality of
IDAs' portfolios would have been much worse and that regulators, depositors and investors
would not have been aware of the extent of the problem, thus raising the possibility of a sudden
systemic crisis. While the situation is currently serious, it is stable, and the tightening of
supervisory standards starting in 1999 has led to more intensive remedial actions by the
regulators.
The current banking problems can be traced to several factors including: (i) lax credit quality
standards applied by IDAs prior to 1998, including too much reliance on loan guarantees rather
than the underlying earnings flow of the borrower; (ii) excessive growth in loans during 1997-98,
when total banking system loans expanded by 15 percent and 22 percent in real terms,
respectively; and (iii) a weakening economy starting in 1999 due to both negative external and
internal shocks.
As a result of the regulatory reforms and market developments mentioned above, problem loans
have risen to very high levels. Loans past-due more than 30 days have increased from 4.4 percent
- 13-



of total loans in 1997 to 14.4 percent in 2001, and further deteriorated to 16.5 percent in April of
this year. This percentage should normally be around 5 percent of total loans. Similarly, loans
classified in the Deficient (or Sub-Standard), Doubtful, and Loss categories have risen from 6.3
percent of total loans in 1998 to 21 percent in 2001. In view of the more stringent loan
classification standards adopted in 1998, the Superintendency gave IDAs a five year deferment
period to comply with the loan loss provision requirements. As a consequence, the level of
reserves are still very low, as evidenced by the reserve ratio of only 33 percent for Doubtful loans,
and a reserve ratio of only 71 percent for the Loss category. If the economy fails to recover this
year, asset quality is likely to deteriorate further. On the other hand, an economic recovery would
help to reduce IDAs' burden from problem loans, but only gradually. In the best case, it would be
at least several years before IDAs will be able to improve asset quality to a more acceptable level.
Despite the negative news, the Government has made some efforts to assist IDAs through these
difficult times. In 2001, a debt restructuring program, FERE (Debt Restructuring Fund) was
approved, whereby the Government made funds available for IDAs to restructure the debts of
good quality borrowers who had been impacted by the economic recession but had good
fundamentals. Another program in that same year, PROFOB (IDA Strengthening Program), was
instituted to assist the particularly weak financial institutions through the provision of
subordinated debt. This program allowed the weakest IDAs to subsist while management seeks to
return IDA to profitability.
In the final analysis, a more efficient and effective Superintendency has prodded IDAs to take a
more aggressive approach in managing their problems, and IDA management has in general been
more proactive in dealing with the major challenges. Several encouraging trends have emerged.
First, the level of capital has increased from 7.1 percent of assets in 1997 to 11.0 percent in April
2002. Second, the level of international liquidity has improved noticeably, from a net liability of
US$617 million in 1997, to a net surplus position of $276 million. This improvement has resulted
from a reduction in foreign liabilities. At the same time, banking system has reduced its size from
US$5.7 billion in 1999 to US$4.5 billion in April 2002. Nevertheless, the chronic loan portfolio
problems continue to depress earnings with the return on equity falling from 9.2 percent in 1998,
to a loss of 9.5 percent in 2000. The principal culprit has been the continuing losses on the loan
portfolio, which in 2001 represented a little less than 50 percent of the net interest margin.
The continuing weakness in banking system, and the prospects for only gradual improvements
underscores the importance for the Superintendency to adhere to the new FSF Law's instruments
for dealing with troubled IDAs, specially the streamlined intervention mechanism. While the
recent subordinated debt program gives the very weak IDAs additional time to restructure their
operations, firther extensions of this program could postpone the problem and thus result in a
more costly solution. In view of the goal of increasing the effectiveness of the Superintendency to
respond rapidly in closing problem IDAs, strict limits should be placed on the ability of IDAs to
remain under the PROFOB program.
The impact of the pension reform on capital markets has not yet materialized due to the fiscal
problems associated with the mounting Government deficit associated with pension liabilities. At
year end 2001, about 73 percent of the AFP's portfolio was invested in Government bonds and
- 14 -



bills, and the rest was invested mostly in corporate fixed income, mainly issued by IDAs. The rate
of return on this portfolio was about 7.8 percent in US$ terms, and the average maturity was 3.3
years.
Outcome in Improving Infrastructure Services
The improvement in infrastructure services was accomplished through the strengthening of the
regulatory agencies complemented with sub-sector specific legislation, and with the
implementation of concession contracts, which formalized the relationship between the regulator
and the services provider. The successful outcome of these arrangements contributed to increased
investments in infrastructure with the consequent improvement in the coverage and quality of
services. The principal achievements included:
o  A Basic Sanitation Law was approved in October 1999. and amended in April 2000: As
discussed below, the amendment to the Law dealt a setback to the program objectives. The
Law was modified as a result of the water riots in Cochabamba in April 2000. The importance
of water relative to the other infrastructure services heightens the social impact of any
measures to adjust tariffs. However, the Government is committed to approving regulations
that will help correct the problem.
o  Six water concessions contracts were signed an implemented. resulting in improved services in
the affected areas.
o Four electricity concession agreements were signed. resulting in improved services in the
affected areas.
o Entry of two new personal communications providers in the telecommunications industry and
the privatization of most of YPFB's residual assets have contributed to increased competition
and hence to improved services for consumers.
The Superintendency of Electricity has been contributing to the development of the electricity
market through concession agreements, as supported by this credit, which focus on improving
coverage of electricity distribution and on getting the prices right in the sector. The development
of marginal cost pricing combined with the use of efficient operations of the spot market that
adjusts prices to reflect the cost of congestion and of adequate power reserves contributed to the
timely investment in electric power generation following the initial shortfall in generating capacity
in 1999. Higher prices combined with healthy growth of demand led to significant investments in
existing facilities and the entry of two new generators raised the reserve margin from a low of
about 5 percent in February 1999, to about 45 percent in January 2002. This expansion in
generating capacity has resulted in greater reliability in the supply of electric power to consumers.
On the other hand, the market is now signaling that excess capacity exists, which has benefited
consumers by keeping spot prices from surging. During 2001, spot prices kept to within 20 - 45
percent above the nodal - or marginal cost prices, during the dry season, and within 20 - 45
percent below the corresponding nodal prices in the rainy season. These figures suggest that
transmission congestion does not appear to be a recurrent problem. Nevertheless, relations
between the operators and the Superintendency have been somewhat tense as both sides attempt
to work through the particularly controversial issues of quality standards as established in the
concession agreements.
- 15-



The outcome of infrastructure services in other sectors has been mixed. Telephone services have
expanded noticeably during the implementation period. For example, cellular phone service
density has increased from 0.44 percent in 1996, to 9.4 percent in 2001; regular phone line service
density has increased from 4.6 percent to 6.3 percent respectively. Rural phone services have
shown a healthy improvement, but from a very low level of 0.65 per 1000 residents to 2.03
percent between 1996 and 2000. On the other hand, information in the basic sanitation sector is
much more limited, particularly with respect to access in the rural communities, an indication that
the Superintendency needs to improve its performance. Based on the largest operator, and one of
the first to sign a concession contract, Aguas del Illimani, which covers the La Paz metropolitan
area, access to water has reached 100 percent; although sewer services in the outlying El Alto
area is still at a low 54 percent, with limited improvements expected. Because most of the benefits
from the capitalization of the hydrocarbons company YPFB were realized in the previous IDA
project, the impact in terms of the sale of the residual assets has so far been negligible. Overall,
the use of concession contracts should result in continued improvement in the quality of services,
although in the basic sanitation area little progress is anticipated until the Government's policies
get back on track.
4.2 Outputs by cornponents:
TDhe overall implementatdon rating is considered satdsfactory as elaborated below by
objetiives and program components. As explained in the previous section, implementation
delays resulted in "Unsatisfactory" rating during part of the implementation period. The obstacles
to implementation dealt with political resistance to the passage of legislation prescribed by the
reform program and to lack of investor interest in the privatization of some of the residual assets
of YPFB.
limplementation / Output of ReglDatory System ConitiondlHty
Passage of the Administrative Procedures (A?) Law was a major step in introducing
accountabilty in public administradon and inm granting basic rights to citizens. It should
also be an important step to address Bolivia's problems with corruption. The Law was adopted on
April 23, 2002, although the regulations have not yet been issued. The required regulations
involve the following areas: (i) adjusting the current regulatory environment, i.e. SIRESE, to the
new law; (ii) establishing rules governing the executive branch; (iii) establishing rules governing
the municipalities; and (iv) establishing rules governing public universities. The fact that this law
went through numerous revisions is an indication of the controversial nature of its content.
Nevertheless, much follow up is needed in order to ensure the effective implementation of this
important law.
Since the Administrative Procedures Law has only recently been approved, it is still too early to
determine how it will be implemented. On the other hand, the relative success of SIRESE in
enforcing rulings and subjecting them to the appeals process bodes well for similar outcomes in
terms of the new Law's application to the whole public sector. One of the sections excluded from
the final version of the Law was the treatment of Government liabilities. The latter feature would
- 16 -



have allowed citizens to sue the Government for both economic and moral damages resulting
from Government actions. However, there was strong concern that making the Government liable
for its actions could result in excessive and abusive litigation, and that a multitude of such cases
would drain the Government's financial resources. In the meantime, other legal avenues are being
considered in order to provide citizens with the right for compensation for Government errors and
omissions.
The condition to establish consultative groups to coordinate the development of norms for
sectors regulated by SIRESE and the financial system superintendencies were complied
with. The consultative group for the infrastructure sectors was established within the Council of
Ministers (CONAPE) with appropriate input from SIRESE when requested. With respect to the
financial sector, the Committee for Prudential Financial Sector Norms (CONFIP) was established
in September 1998, as part of Board conditionality, and includes representatives of the Central
IDA, the SBEF, and the Superintendency of Insurance, Pension and Securities (SPVS). These
two groups play a crucial role in monitoring market developments and risks, and in configuring
effective regulations to maintain market efficiency. In the case of CONFIP, the working group is
comprised of individuals with direct responsibilities for supervision. On the other hand, the
establishment of the consultative group for the infrastructure sectors within CONAPE, which is
comprised of ministers of state, is perhaps at too high a level for the type of policy discussion that
the consultative group was expected to engage in. CONAPE normally covers a wide spectrum of
economic issues in their deliberations, and while they address the relevant issues concerning
regulations, their coverage of these topics is limited by the priority given to other matters on their
regularly busy meeting agenda. Perhaps the establishment of an informal working group from all
the relevant agencies could provide more in-depth discussion of issues prior to their presentation
at the Ministerial - CONAPE meetings.
Implementation / Output of Financial Sector Conditionality
The key initiatives adopted by the Borrower as agreed under the RRSAC were the passage
of the PCP Law in 1998, the implementation of loan classification criteria in line with
international practices, also in 1998, and the passage of the FSF Law in December 2001.
The PCP Law addressed a number of areas in the financial sector, especially the reform of the
pension system - the Popular Shares derived from the capitalization program and the Bolivida
annuity for retirees as well as improvements in the private pension fund companies; changes in the
legal structure of cooperatives; creation of the coordinating group for financial sector regulations;
and creation of a consolidated Superintendency for Insurance, Pension and Securities. The
implementation of new loan classification standards complied with internationally accepted
practices and its impact on banking system was discussed in the previous section.
The passage of the FSF Law was the final piece of the financial sector strengthening component
of the RRSAC. As mentioned earlier, this legislation was an amendment to the earlier
comprehensive banking law of 1993. The principal features contained in this law were as follows:
o Early resolution of problem IDAs through formal actions referred to as the "process of
normalization." Based on specific quantitative criteria contained in the Law, the
-17 -



perceived in the short-run by some outspoken groups as unjustly increasing the costs of basic
services, which they consider as a right rather than a service, and could thus spark more unrest. In
the meantime, concession contracts continue to provide valid benchmarks for supervision,
although the operators may have to accept unfavorable rate increases that may not follow the
prescribed methodology as established in the concession agreement. As per the RRSAC
condition, the Superintendency did sign six concession agreements with eligible water and
sanitation providers. Nevertheless, if the new regulations are not forthcoming, investors could
eventually exit the market. In view of the Government's commitment to approve the new
regulations at a favorable time, IDA appropriately requested a waiver. However, this situation
should be monitored closely.
The conditions regarding the electric power sector were complied with, mainly that the
Superintendency signed four concession contracts with distributors. At the time of this
report, the Superintendency had signed eight concession contracts, and was negotiating another
seven. In addition, a decree was approved which provides a specific body of regulations enabling
the Superintendency of Electricity to regulate the services of the electricity distribution providers,
in particular it addressed the issue of the cooperatives, which according to the electricity law
would not have been eligible to sign a concession agreement. With respect to the cooperatives,
the decree granted a period of time for their conversion to corporations as stipulated in the
original law. As mentioned in the section on the design of the project, IDA may want to consider
technical assistance to the cooperatives which are expected to make a transition to another type of
corporate structure. The Superintendency considers that many of these cooperatives need
assistance in a number of areas such as financial control, administration, and technical aspects of
operations. This issue needs to be monitored closely.
The condition regarding the telecommunications sector was also complied with. Two new
private providers entered the market, offering Personal Communication System (PCS). Both of
them use the Group Special Mobile (GSM) European standard, widely used throughout the
world. The Superintendency of Telecommunications issued Resolutions No. 1063 and 1133 in
1999 to grant a new PCS license to Empresa de Telecomunicaciones Nueva Tel, a joint-venture of
Western Wireless International of the USA and COMTECO of Bolivia, following an international
competitive bidding process. As a result of NuevaTel's entry into the market, ENTEL, a
subsidiary of Telecom Italia, decided to enter the market to provide PCS services to compete with
them, using the same GSM standard, through the new brand ENTEL GSM. Telecom Italia had
obtained this license as part of the 1995 auction of ENTEL, S.A, but had not yet used it. As a
consequence of these measures, there are now four providers of mobile services, the traditional
two incumbent cellular operators, Telecel (a subsidiary of Millicom International of the USA) and
ENTEL, and the new two PCS providers, NuevaTel and ENTEL GSM.
The Telecommunications Sector in Bolivia is undergoing a fundamental transformation. The
introduction of two new mobile operators has improved competition, services and numbers of
customers. Prices have been reduced, as operators introduced new payment plans in a truly
competitive market. The number of lines grew exponentially. In addition, the Government
opened basic telephone service to full competition in November 2001. This reform has already
attracted four new players to the market, offering local, long distance and international telephone
-19-



services. Prices have fallen and consumer choice increased fivefold, from one monopoly provider
of long distance services to five companies actively competing for the market.
With respect to the hydrocarbons sector, which involved the privatizatiodn of the residual
YPFB assets, most of the conditions were met except for the sale of the liquid gas bottling
plants and the natural gas distribution networks. Thus IDA requested a waiver for the two
conditions. The impediment to the sale of the gas bottling plants was the decision by the
Government not to eliminate the price subsidy. In view of the importance of this product to all
households, and considering the fragile social and economic environment, it was concluded that
elimination of the subsidy could result in social unrest. The sale of the natural gas distribution
network did not occur in large part due to lack of investor interest. The currently depressed and
uncertain economic environment and the Government's specifications on the conditions for sale
were contributing factors to the absence of bids. According to the Restructuring Unit at the
Foreign Trade Ministry, the sale of the natural gas network could succeed if the Government's
conditions are made more flexible and when the economy shows sign of improvement. At the
same time, some of the potential investors, who had already performed a preliminary analysis at
the earlier offering, are from neighboring countries, which are currently going through economic
difficulties. This situation should be monitored closely.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The RRSAC's insttutional development impact is deemed substandal based on the project
objectives of improving the enabling environment and organizational structure of the
country's infrastructure and financial sector regulatory system. As discussed in the previous
section, the successful outcome in terms of maintaining the independence of the regulatory
system; the strengthening of the efficiency of the financial system through the introduction of new
laws and regulations; and the improvement in the coverage and quality of infrastructure services
through the development of concession contracts and the promotion of greater competition in
those sectors support the favorable assessment for institutional development.
Inproving the enabling environment was an important institutional component of this project.
Perhaps the highest rating could be assigned to the passage of the Administrative Procedures
Law, which if successfully implemented through the development of effective regulations, could
have a notable impact on the transparency and efficiency of public administration in all sectors of
the economy and at all levels, especially with respect to the problem of corruption. This Law has
great potential, but at the same time much greater follow up is needed. Technical assistance may
be required to prepare the regulations, to adapt existing regulatory agencies to the new
framework, and to provide education to the legal profession in the practice of administrative law.
The passage of laws in the financial and infrastructure sectors strengthened the institutional
capabilities of the respective regulatory agencies. The PCP law was instrumental in filling certain
-20 -



institutional gaps and upgrading certain operational procedures in the pension system - the
popular shares and Bolivida as well as new performance regulations for the AFPs; in the financial
sector - the creation of the consultative group (CONFIP) and the consolidation of the
Superintendency of Insurance, Pension and Securities (SPVS). The FSF Law strengthened the
Superintendency of IDA's abilities to enforce corrective actions in the case of troubled IDAs and
established a common institutional framework for the regulation of all financial intermediaries -
IDAs and non-IDAs.
With respect to the infrastructure sectors, the RRSAC institutionalized the relationship between
the regulators and the services providers through the creation of the concession contract, which
establish clear directives in terms of coverage, quality, and pricing. As mentioned earlier, one
weakness in this area was the treatment of cooperatives, which would have benefited from more
direct intervention via technical assistance rather than the actual strategy of pressuring the
cooperatives to transformn into other types of legal structures not perhaps suited to their modus
operandi.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of government. External factors had a material impact on the
implementation of this project. As mentioned in the President's Report, economic shocks from
neighboring countries were considered to pose risks to the outcome of this project. Bolivia was
negatively impacted first, by the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999; and second, by the
Argentinean crisis at the end of 2001. Since the problems in Argentina have been much more
serious and extensive than generally expected, the consequences for Bolivia have been more
noticeable, particularly as it affects the currency market, exports to Argentina, remittances from
Bolivian workers in Argentina, and reduced capital inflows resulting from the contagion effect
transmitted via the international financial markets.
Even before the crisis in Argentina, Bolivia had already been impacted by the general slowdown in
the global economy. Low commodity prices took a toll on export earnings for zinc, tin, and silver.
The weather shocks associated with La Niuia in 1999 and El Niflo in 2001 and the consequent
increase in natural disasters, compounded the impact from the external economic shocks. These
factors contributed to the sharp economic slowdown in Bolivia in 1999, followed by another
downturn during 2000-2001, which exacerbated the Government's own domestic problems.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors generally subject to government controL A particularly relevant factor which contributed
to the delays in implementation and to the difficulties in dealing with the problems in the water
sector was the erosion in political support for the Government during the period of this project.
President Banzer had been elected to office by a very broad coalition of parties with diverse
political agendas. The coalition began to tear from the beginning leading to dissention as social
pressures began to test the validity of the political compromises. Midway through his term, the
President's political support began to slunp. The coca eradication program fomented discontent
by farmers who considered that they had not been adequately compensated. Political tensions
-21 -



heightened during the riots in Cochabamba in April 2000. Then the deterioration in the President's
health reached an advanced stage in 2001, leading to his resignation in August of that year, when
Vice President Jorge Quiroga was sworn into office to fill out the remainder of the term.
The deterioration in the economy contributed to the surge in social tensions, which were
aggravated by the political developments described above. As a result, the Governent shifted its
priorities to social issues and the immediate challenges of getting the economy back on a path to
recovery. This delayed passage of some of the legislation, in particular, the regulations dealing
with the Water and Basic Sanitation Law for which a waiver was required.
5.3 Factors generally subject to Implementing agency control:
Factors generally subject to implementing agency controL As the implementing agency, the
Ministry of Finance was strongly committed to the RRSAC's objectives. There were few areas of
disagreement in terms of the Credit's scope and work program.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sunnesnbaiity
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sutabiml&ity of the project ns judged to be keRy. The commitment by the new
Government that assumed office in August 2002 to economic reforms is an important ingredient
for continued success of the program. A good track record on macroeconomic policies assures a
favorable environment for the longer-term independence of the regulatory system, although
greater attention should be given to the problem of the fiscal deficit, specially the Government's
growing pension liabilities. NeVertheless, the change in Administration and Congress following the
June elections this year raises some questions about the continuity of the Government's reform
agenda. The coalition in Congress is yet to be tested, although one of the groups most strongly
opposed to the Government's reforms gained a significantly higher representation in congress.
This situation needs to be monitored more closely, especially in relation to those conditions where
IDA issued a waiver: the Water and Basic Sanitation regulations, the sale of the two remaining
assets of YPFB, and the establishment of an explicit limit on the deposit guarantees. Beyond the
mechanical compliance issues regarding these pending items, the sustainability of other reforms
supported by the RRSAC, as explained earlier, call for additional follow up actions. In this regard,
it may be advisable to consider an RRSAC II that will help to carry some of the reforms already
put in place to a higher level of development and to ensure the continuity of the reform program
in general.
The principal risks to this project were clearly outlined in the President's Report and included
first, risks of an unfavorable political climate; second, risks from external shocks; third, financial
system risk arising from the imposition of an explicit ceiling on deposit guarantees; and fourth, the
risks from the technical challenges raised by the complexity of the program. In addition to the
change in Government, the external shock from the Argentinean crisis has intensified pressures
against the financial system, which so far has fared well in deflecting these threats, thanks in large
part to the institutional reforms supported by the RRSAC. With respect to the limit on the amount
- 22 -



of the deposit insurance, the key to its successful implementation will be to wait for a period of
global as well as regional financial stability, and only after IDA's asset quality problems have
improved to the point where problem loans do not represent more than 8 percent of total loans in
the system. Additional technical support from IDA, such as in the area of administrative law to
assist in the implementation of the Administrafive Procedures Law, will also help to assure the
sustainability of this project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In the identification of the project, IDA showed very good judgment in selecting the development
objectives. The task manager for the previous Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit saw the
need to strengthen the regulatory agencies as essential to the continuity of investments in the
newly "privatized" industries. At the same time, the change in Govermment provided a sound basis
to build a bridge to the new administration's agenda for the good reforms from the previous
government. IDA was proactive in mounting a series of financial sector strengthening measures to
address the chronic problems of instability. While the project was complex, the design was
compatible with the borrower's capacity.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision was highly satisfactory as evidenced by the frequency of monitoring and the
attention paid to the compliance with the achievement of the objectives. IDA staff provided good
advice to their counterparts in Bolivia. By flagging implementation problems early on and
downgrading the RRSAC to unsatisfactory, IDA was able to prompt an effective response from
the Borrower, although as explained in a previous section, not all of the delays were caused by the
implementing agency but rather by an unfriendly political climate.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
IDA performance was satisfactory. In general the project was well designed and consistent with
IDA's country strategy. IDA staff worked very close with their counterparts in the Bolivian
Government. The fact that IDA has a representative office in the country facilitated the
implementation of the program.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The commitment of the Government to maintain the independence of the regulatory system, to
strengthen the financial system, and to improve the provision of infrastructure services was
instrumental in the satisfactory outcome of this project. The Government's team was comprised
of key policymakers who saw this project as an opportunity to solidify their agenda for their term
in office. The Government maintained a very positive policy dialogue with IDA during this initial
phase of the project.
-23 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance was satisfactory. The Government was highly committed to the
reforms, although in some cases such as the AP Law, the reforms were not popular with other
stakeholders. At the same time, the fragile nature of the political coalition that elected President
Banzer and his eventual resignation for health reasons also contributed to an inevitable loss of
momentum and delays in implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the project, the
overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.
B. Lessonms Lesrned
The principal lessons derived form the outcome of this project include the following:
o     Credibility of the regulatory system lies in the separation of the regulatory process from
political interference. In a short period of time, the regulatory system for the country's
infrastructure services, SIRESE, has made much progress, but the political process still presents
an obstacle to some of their actions. Likewise with the Superintendency of banking system,
despite their excellent technical capabilities, they still face some political impediments in terms of
their ability to intervene problem IDAs.
o     IDA needs to be sensitive to the political pendulum when designing projects with
significant legislative components. Implementation delays in this project were primarily due to
difficulties in passing key legislation. Perhaps greater assessment of the political landscape during
Credit preparation and more analysis on the likelihood of passage for each piece of legislation
would be helpful. In the case of the RRSAC unexpected changes in the political environment
played an important role in delaying several key measures.
a     It is difficult and sometimes risky to Rass laws that would change long-standing practices
where citizens have grown accustomed to them as rights. The condition calling for the
establishment of a deposit guarantee fund with strict limits on the amount of the deposit guarantee
faced a formidable obstacle: depositors in Bolivia had for a long time been assured that the
Government would guarantee 100 percent of their deposits. At the same time, the timing of the
new deposit guarantee fund was not conducive to depositor confidence, much less to stabilization
of banking system.
o     More emphasis on remedial and early detection of financial sector problems may. in the
long-run, be more beneficial than quick solutions through irrevocable intervention There appears
to be a perception in Bolivia that early detection implies quick resolution of insolvency problems.
However, proactive supervision means placing a IDA on a watch list at the appearance of the first
-24 -



signs of problems in any area and ensuring public disclosure of any remedial actions in order to
safeguard both depositors and investors.
o     In credit design it is important to consider the interplay of reforms in the financial sector
which might affect their viability. The application of strict loan classification and loss provision
standards in Bolivia led to a sharp deterioration in IDAs' asset quality. While worrisome, the
disclosure of these problems has enhanced the transparency of the system. On the other hand, the
conditionality to establish a strict limit on the amount of deposit guarantees would have
undermined the effectiveness of the first measure to improve asset quality standards by possibly
triggering a run on IDAs if depositors felt the magnitude of the problem loans was an indication
of pending IDA failures.
o     Getting the price right in terms of infrastructure services can vield important benefits in
terms of reliability and capacity. With the contraction of electric power capacity in 1999, market
pricing signaled opportunities for investors, and the resulting influx of new generators assured the
reliability and capacity of the system to meet demand. By assuring the efficient functioning of the
market, in part through the effective implementation of the concession agreements, the
Superintendency contributed to improved quality of services.
o     In the design of institutional reforms it is important to assess the operational ! structural
capabilities of organizations and when weaknesses are identified. prescribe appropriate technical
assistance. The notion that the hundreds of cooperatives in Bolivia would easily convert to
corporations in order to qualify for concession agreements did not capture the fundamental
problem of lack of technical and operational capacity in many of the cooperatives. A more
productive approach would have been to first provide technical assistance to these entities to
better prepare them for the new demands for quality and coverage of services.
O     Evaluation of outcome should not be limited to the effectiveness at the time of evaluation.
but should be forward looking. In the case of the RRSAC, three waivers were issued based on the
Government's commitment to implement them at a future date. If successful, these additional
actions could further enhance the quality of the outcome, although they are not likely to change
the already satisfactory rating for this project. But in general, IDA may want to consider an
updated evaluation of project outcomes, when waivers are granted, with the possibility of a
revision of the ICR ratings if deemed necessary.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
see next page..
- 25 -



.4it' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Q
4L        H 51'!' rq: a~~~~~~~~~~~~7a
a  4ti:~~~~R
4"          '4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i
;t~~~; ~3
IfII5I~~A
At?  14;!  ~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
III I 
fi       I



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-27 -



Amnex 1. Key Performance            ndicatol  r/Log Firame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-      IndlcatoDrMtftE                      Projacted In bst PSR   .              Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Increased Savings and Investment (as
share of GDP).
(b) Improved oountry raUng in relevant
Investor surveys (ranking relative to other
Latin American countries).
Output Indicators:
- I- hdlatoudMatrix                 Fro,|sctd In Ist PYR                  ActuaUtLaet Esdmata
IEnd of project
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  ActuaULatest  Percentage of
-  Estimate    Estimate     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                               0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00
Total Financing Required            0.00          0.00
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB         Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
.______________________  (0.00)  (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total Project cost was SDR 30.5 million (US$41.8 million equivalent)
-29 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
P-rocurement Method
Expenditure Category  -    ICB           NCB                       N.B.F.     - Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Mlscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project rnanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (In US$ million equivalent)
-  - - -      . -           --  Percentage of Apprail
Componen'             Apptalsai Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
,_____ -_____ .__  Bank    Govt.    CoF..     Bank     Gov   -.CoF.      Bank   Govt. WCoF..
-30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
-31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty      Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count_ _     Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/lPreparation
09/24/1998               3   LEAD SPECIALIST (1)
SR. LEGAL COUNCEL (1)
FINANCIAL SEC. SPECIALIST
(1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/15/1998               4   OPERAT. ANALYST (1)
LAWYER (1)
TASK MANAGER (2)
Supervision
01/11/1999               2   LEAD SPECIALIST (1)
LAWYER (I)
04/16/1999               5   TASK MANAGER (2);              S           S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
LEAD SPECIALIST (1)
11/15/1999               7   TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
LEAD SPECIALIST (VIDEO
(I); RES. REP. (1); LEAD
SPECIALIST (1); WATER
ECONOMIST (1); LAWYER (1)
06/19/2000               3   NEW TASK MANAGER (1);          S           U
CURRENT TASK MANAGER
(1); FINANCIAL SECTOR
SPEC (1)
09/16/2000               5   TEAM LEADER (1);               S           U
ECONOMIST (1); PILLAR
LEADER (1); PROJECT
OFFICER (1); REGULATORY
ISSUES (1)
11/24/2000               2   TEAM LEADER (1);               S           S
ECONOMIST (1)
06/01/2001               3   TL (1); ECONOMIST (1);         U            S
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
09/01/2001               4   TTL (1); FINANCIAL             U           U
ADVISER (1); FINANCIAL
LAWYER (1); ECONOMIST (1)
03/14/2002               2   TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)         S            S
ICR
06/01/2002               1    CONSULTANT
-32-



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
/         No. Staff weeks             US$ ('OOO)
Identification/Preparation               46.9                       106.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     3.2                        7.3
Supervision                              78.5                      342.1
ICR                                      2.45                       25.7
Total                                  131.05                      481.5
- 33 -



Aimme S. Retimgs for Achfeovememnt of Ob,Decflvea/Outpuats of Conmpouneunts
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
El Physical                            O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
rO Financial                           O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
rO Institutional Development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Ol Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Fl Gender                        O H   OSUOM      O N  ONA
El Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
E Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management             O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
0 Other (Please specify)               OH    OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
Ol Lending                                        OHS*S       Ou     OHU
E Supervision                                     OHS OS      O U    O HU
O Overall                                         OHS OS      O U    0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS      OU     O HU
O Government implementation performance           O HS OS     O U    0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance               OHS OS      O U    0 HU
E Overall                                         OHS OS      O u    0 HU
- 35 -



Ammem 7. List of Supportfig Documennts
President Report No. P-7267-BO, October 28, 1998
Development Credit Agreement, November 25, 1998.
Various Project Status Reports
ICR, Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, January 1999
Project Appraisal Document, Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project,
June 1, 1998.
Administrative Procedures Law, April 21, 2002
PCP Law, June 22, 1998
FSF Law, December 20, 2001
Banking data provided by the Superintendency of IDAs.
Annual Reports for the Insurance, Pension, and Securities Superintendency.
Water Law, December 1999, and Amendment April 2000.
Various reports by the Electricity, Hydrocarbons, Telecommunications, Transportation, and
Water and basic sanitation Superintendencies.
- 36 -



Additional Annex 8. [President's Report on Release of Second Tranchel
FROM: The President                                    June 20, 2002
BOLIVIA
Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credit No.3143-0-BO and No.3143-1-BO )
Release of Second Tranche (SDR 14.6 million)
1.    The SDR 30.5 million Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit (SAC) was approved
on November 19, 1998. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for the SAC became
effective on December 28, 1998 and the first tranche (SDR 15.9 million) was released on
December 30, 1998 with all tranche release criteria fully met. The closing date of the SAC has
been extended from December 31, 2000 to June 27, 2002 to allow sufficient time to achieve the
development objectives through passage and implementation of key legislation.
2.    Given that (i) the Government of Bolivia has achieved the development objectives of the
SAC and met 11 of the 14 conditions for the SAC second tranche release; and (ii) there has been
steady and substantial progress toward the fulfillment of the pending conditions, hereby we are
proposing a waiver be granted for the pending conditions, and that the second tranche (SDR 14.6
million) be released at this time. Disbursement of this tranche would provide the authorities with
needed financing to preserve macroeconomic stability and continued support for the country's
reform program.
Vice President, LAC Region          Mr. David de Ferranti
Director, Country Management Unit  Ms. Isabel M. Guerrero
Director,- Finance, Private Sector &  Mr. Danny M. Leipziger
Infrastructure Unit
Task Manager                        Mr. Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
- 37 -



I. Credit Objectives and Economic Situatdon
3.    The Regulatory Reform and Privatization Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
supports Bolivia's regulatory system and financial reform process. The credit has three main
development objectives: to strengthen the stability and efficiency of the financial sector, to
improve the coverage, quality and productivity of key infrastructure services with appropriate
tariffs, and to maintain an independent regulatory system which facilitates economic efficiency,
including support for competition. Selected key measures include: (a) the enactment of the
Financial Sector Strengthening Law (FSF) (Ley de Fortalecimiento de la Normativa y
Supervisi6n Financiera) aimed at strengthening bank resolution procedures and at facilitating
prompt corrective actions for weak financial intermediaries; (b) the enactment of a specific
regulation for promoting competition in the telecommunications and energy sectors; and (c)
measures supporting the privatization of the remaining assets of state-owned enterprises .
4.    The macroeconomic situation in Bolivia has deteriorated over the last year largely
due to a regional slowdown of economic activity. Real GDP growth is expected to reach only
1 percent for 2001 and inflation has remained low, 0.9 percent, in part due to declining
domestic demand. The situation of the banking sector has stabilized but at very low levels.
The economic difficulties have been reflected in increasing unemployment and
under-employment. The situation may worsen as Bolivian workers in Argentina return to their
home country. On the extemal front, competitiveness of Bolivian products is threatened by
the actions taken by its neighbors, in particular Argentina. The near term outlook is uncertain,
it will depend both on actions by the new administration to take office in August and on
developments in the rest of the world, particularly in trading partner economies.
5.    The IMF reviews under the PRGF arrangement that expires in June 2002 could not
be completed, as a key structural reform-approval of a tax procedures code-has been
delayed. The authorities, seeking to ensure a satisfactory macroeconomic performance in
2002, presented an economic program for 2002 that Fund staff agreed to monitor informally
in January. Performance under the informally monitored financial program is on track. All
quantitative benchmarks for the first quarter of 2002 were observed, and a decline in
intemational reserves during April was reversed in the first half of May.
6.    Progress has been made with structural reforms. In particular, legislation on the
financial system enacted in December 2001 strengthens bank resolution mechanisms and
facilitates prompt corrective action for banks with problems. Also, in light of vulnerabilities in
the fmancial system, the weakest financial institutions have been recapitalized through a
program (PROFOP) that provides public sector loans in conjunction with a restructuring plan.
- 38 -



HI. Progress Against Conditions in Carrying Out the Program and in Meeting Second
Tranche Criteria
7.    Pursuant to paragraph (d) of Article II, Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement,
conditions to be met to the satisfaction of the Association for the release of the Second
Tranche require: (i) that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the Program as determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association; (ii) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out of the Program; ands (iii) that the
actions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
A. Macroeconomic Policy
8.    This condition has been met. In spite of the difficult current economic and social
situation, the macroeconomic policy framework of Bolivia is deemed satisfactory by the IMF
as certified by a letter from the IMF to Mr. de Ferranti, Vice President of LCR. Bolivia has
been hit by a series of shocks since the late 90s. The main external shocks have been (a)
recession in trading partner economies and drop in remittances from about one million
Bolivians living in Argentina; (b) a 40 percent drop in international capital inflows. This effect
typically leads to deceleration or drop of activity in the service sector, e.g., construction,
where many of the poor people work; (c) devaluations in trading partner countries, e.g.,
Argentina, Brazil and Chile; (d) deterioration of key export prices, e.g., zinc (22 percent), tin
(25.4 percent), silver (11.2 percent) and gold (6.3 percent); (e) the weather shocks associated
with La Ninia in 1999 and El Nino in 2001 and the consequent increase in natural disasters,
which has accelerated erosion and desertification; and (f) the global economic downturn; (g)
notwithstanding the substantial medium-term benefits that will accrue from Bolivia's
successful coca eradication program, the effect on the economy in the short-term has been a
shrinkage by an estimated 3.5 percent of GDP.
9.    The macroeconomic situation in Bolivia has further deteriorated in 2001 and is
expected to recover only gradually. While continued rapid growth of natural gas production
led to an estimated 1.2 percent increase in real GDP in 2001, output declined in other sectors.
Inflation has remained low, 0.9 percent, in part due to declining domestic demand. The 2001
budget deficit widened considerably, due to a significant drop in revenue and continued high
costs of the pension reform. It closed at 6.5 percent of GDP, considerably higher than the
original IMF target of 3.7 percent. This deficit has been financed largely by an increase in
domestic debt, and also by increased nonconcessional external financing mainly from the CAF.
The current projected growth for Bolivia in 2002 is only of 2.5 to 3 percent, mainly related to
a very large increase in gas exports (less than 1 percent for the non-gas economy).
10.   On the financial front, banking activity continues to contract, and  bank
performance indicators remain weak and unevenly distributed among banks. At end-February
2002, the cumulative decline in commercial bank loans and deposits was 181/2 percent and 11
percent, respectively, from end-2000, while non-performing loans were about 16 percent of
- 39 -



total loans. On the external front, competitiveness of Bolivian products has dropped because
of devaluations in neighbor countries-Argentina's being the most recent one-in spite of the
recent acceleration of the Boliviano rate of depreciation. Because of Bolivia's high level of
dollar debts, the Government is restraining themselves from a faster depreciation of the
Boliviano to prevent putting pressure on the finances of sol earners indebted in dollars, and
consequently on the financial sector.
11.   Bolivia's economic difficulties have been reflected in increasing unemployment and
under-employment. The unemployment rate increased to at least o 8.5 percent in 2001. About
15 percent of total employed workers are under-employed. As a result of the economic crisis,
the labor force is switching from formal sector to informal sector activities, to date about 52
percent of total workforce is employed in the informal sector. This situation may worsen if
workers returning from Argentina enter the Bolivian informal sector. It should be noticed that
the deterioration of the employment situation, particularly of workers formerly employed in
coca production, has led to losses for the economy induced by social unrest estimated by the
government at around US$116 million during 2001.
12.   Bolivia is in its third annual PRGF arrangement with the IMF. All quantitative
performance criteria for January-June 2002 were observed. Bolivia's PRGF is not expected to
be completed, as there is little prospect for implementation of a key structural prior action,
i.e., passage of the Tax Code within this Administration. The Tax Code is central to the
PRGF-supported structural agenda because of its importance for making the reform of the
National Tax Service effective, and for mobilizing fiscal revenues. IMF staff expects that
discussions on a successor PRGF arrangement would take place with the new Administration
that takes office next August 2002. The interim informal agreement with the IMF on a shadow
financial program for 2002 is helping the authorities resist pressures for increasing expenditure
during the election period that ends in June 2002.
B. General Progress in Canying out the Program
13.   This condition has been met. Over the last decade and a half, Bolivia has
transformed itself from a country characterized by political instability and economic crises to
one of the most stable democracies in the Region. Before the current recession, the reforms
had been successful in not only stabilizing the economy, but also in helping to achieve a
relatively steady growth, averaging 4.4 percent between 1990 and 1998. Recent domestic and
external shocks are threatening the poverty gains of the mid-90s. The challenge now is not
just managing a short-run recession while continuing the reform process, but a multi-year
transition to the advent of major gas receipts, with the risk of long-lasting consequences of the
cyclical downturn due to the interactions of economic conditions, employment conditions,
and social pressures.
-40 -



14.   The SAC was prepared at the beginning of the Banzer Administration, when the
Government had an ample majority in Congress. At that time, the Reform Agenda of the new
Government was highly ambitious, aiming at deepening the financial sector reform as well as
strengthening the regulatory function of the state and promoting competition. This SAC
supported this effort together with the Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical
Assistance Project (Credit number 3108-BO). The pace of the progress was somewhat slower
than envisioned during the design phase; still, over all the period, Bolivia remained a
committed reformer that made substantial progress in key policy reforms supported by the
SAC. Given the circumstances, the Government has made remarkable progress in
implementing its program. A number of important new laws and regulations have been
implemented in the electricity, telecommunications, and finance sectors. The Government has
successfully completed a significant part of the privatization agenda and has also achieved the
implementation of reforms to strengthen its regulatory capacity in the banking sector.
C.      Other Actions Needed to Comply with the Conditions for the Second Tranche
Disbursement (as described in Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement)
1. The Borrower has enacted the Administrative Procedures Law
15.   This condition has been met. The Administrative Procedure Law, No. 2341, was
promulgated on April 23th 2002 and published in the Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia, it is therefore
fully in force. In the assessment of the staff this is arguably the best Administrative Procedure
Law in Latin America and sets the basis for a different and improved relationship between
citizens and the Government. It should also be an important step to address Bolivia's
problems with corruption.
2. The Borrower has submitted the draft Competition Law to the Borrower's Congress
16.   This condition has been met. The Competition Law was sent to Congress, as
confirmed by the letter from the President of Congress, dated November 15th 2000,
confirming he had received the Bill to be analyzed and approved.
3. The Borrower has enacted the FSF Law
17.   This condition has been met.   On December 20th 2001, Law No. 2297
Fortalecimiento de la Normativa y Supervision Financiera was issued. This Law, which is
considered satisfactory by the Bank, will strengthen bank resolution mechanisms as well as
facilitate prompt corrective action for banks with problems. At the same time it creates the
foundation for a deposit insurance system financed by private banks.
4. The Borrower has ensured that the Financial regulations have been adopted
18.   This condition has been    met. Regulations related to Law   No. 2297
Fortalecimiento de la Normativa y Supervisi6n Financiera are being passed by the
-41 -



Superintendency of Banks. In particular, regulations for the establishment of the Fund for
Financial Restructuring have been enacted in the first quarter of 2002.
5. The Borrower has enacted the Non Bank Financial lItermediary Law
19.   This condition has been met. Law on Banks and Financial Institutions No. 1488
regulates bank and non bank entities with the aim to have financial intermediation activities
regulated through a single legal instrument. Law No. 2297 Fortalecimiento de la Normativa
y Supervision Financiera updates the 1488 Law, and also includes the Non Banking
Intermediaries Legislation. Specifically, Art. 9 of Law No. 2297 modifies Title IV of the 1488
Law on Non Bank Financial Intermediary Institutions.
6. A consultative group to coordinate the development of norms for the sectors regulated
by SIR.ESE has been established
20.   This condition has been met. Resolution No. 5/2000 (dated November 10th,
2000) of the CONAPE (Consejo de Politica Economica) establishing the CONAPE and
SIRESE as the consultative group. The consultative group is operational and active and has
led to a number of decisions and improved norms.
7. The Borrower has enacted the Basic sanitation Law and issued the Basic Santation
Law Reglaations
21.   This condition has not been met, a waiver is being requested. The Water and
Basic Sanitation Law No 2029 was promulgated in October 1999 modified in April 2000
(Law No 2065). The Government has successfully completed important steps toward fulfilling
this condition. They include completion of a process to achieve consensus among all parties
on these regulations, and completion of drafting of the three Supreme Decrees required (on
the Regulation of Concessions and Authorizations, on Determination of Tariffs and
Connection Costs, and on Service Standards). The only remaining step would be to issue the
Decrees. However, there is now a compelling new factor that has led the Government to
conclude that issuance would be unwise at this time or the near future. Bank staff agree with
this position. The severe and prolonged economic downturn has resulted in worrying social
tensions, depleted household budgets, and worsened poverty. There could not be a worse
time to introduce changes that, while necessary for development in the longer run, could
possibly be perceived in the short run by some groups as onerously different from the existing
arrangements and could thereby spark off unrest. Recent experiences (riots in Cochabamba
over water issues) have shown how easily outbreaks can occur in the current environment,
and how seriously they can set back progress, sometimes with public reaction based on
complete misperception of what the changes are and what their effects would be. Since these
new decrees would deal with water issues (and concessions and tariffs), they could become a
target of the disgruntled elements and trigger major reversals.  Until more favorable
conditions return and the new decrees can be implemented, the concession contracts provide
completely valid benchmarks for supervision.  Given all these considerations, it is
recommended that this condition be waived.
-42 -



8. The Borrower has appointed the head of the Superintendency of Basic Sanitation
22.   This condition has been met. The Supreme Decree (D.S.219174) of July 26,
2000, appoints Mr. Johnny Cuellar as Superintendent of Basic Sanitation.
9. The Borrower has entered into six concession agreements with Eligible Water and
Sanitation Providers
23.   This condition has been met. The resolution approving the regularization of the
concessions to SAGUAPAC (August 1999), SELA (September 1999), COSMOL (October
1999), ELAPAS (October 1999), COATRI (November 1999) and CAPAG (November 1999)
and the granting of a concession to ATSA has been issued. The concession contracts establish
tariff regimes, service standards and coverage targets. In the absence of the regulations, the
concession contracts are the benchmarks used for supervision.
10. (a) The Borrower has entered into four concession agreements with Eligible
Electricity Distribution Providers
24.   This condition has been met. Concession contracts establishing tariff regimes,
service standards and coverage targets have been signed with four electric energy providers:
ELECTROPAZ (December 1999), CRE (March 1999), ELFEC (February 1999) and ELFEO
(March 2000).
10. (b) The Borrower has amended the Electricity Law in order to enable the Borrower's
Superintendency of Electricity to regulate the services of the electricity distribution
providers.
25.   This condition has been met in substance. The Supreme Decree 25786 (dated
May 25th, 2000 and in place of an amendment to the Electricity Law) now provides a specific
body of regulations enabling the Superintendency of Electricity to regulate the services of the
electricity distribution providers.
11.  The Borrower has ensured that the Deposi Guarantee Fund (DGF) is fuUy
operational, including: (a) the assessment of contributions by financial institutions to
DGF; (b) the Establishment of a contingent line of credit from Borrower's Ministry of
finance; and (c) the appointment of DGF's board of directors
26.   This condition has not been met, a waiver is being requested. This condition,
while appropriate for the economic conditions that prevailed when the operation was launched
three and a half years ago, does not make sense given the much worse economic environment
today. Even the downside scenarios, that seemed extreme back then, are moderate compared
to the severe downturn affecting the Latin America Region now -- compounded by the special
problems in two of Bolivia's neighbors and key trading partners (Argentina and Brazil).
Considering also the debilitating impact that these developments have had on Bolivia's
-43 -



financial sector, the creation of an explicit and limited deposit guarantee at this time could
have destabilizing effects. The Government, the IMF, and Bank staff have all reached this
same conclusion. The best course now for Bolivia is to put in place the appropriate legal
framework that will facilitate the creation of an explicit deposit guarantee when more
favorable economic conditions return, but to defer implementation of the guarantee until then.
The Government has accordingly approved recently a Financial Sector Strengthening Law that
positions it well for the time when circumstances will have improved enough to proceed with
the guarantee. In light of the passage of this law and current economic circumstances, it is
recommended that this condition be waived.
12 (a). The Regulatory Agencies have adopted administrative resolutions approving the
Regulatory Agencies' Employment Benchmarks
27.   This condition has been met. Specific administrative resolutions have been
approved establishing parameters for personnel dimensioning within all Superintendencies.
Specifically, administrative resolutions No 42/2001 (December 2001), SB 004/2002 (January
2002), No. 098/2001 (December 2001) and No 433 (November 2001) from SBEF, SPVS,
SRJ and SIRESE respectively.
12 (b). The Regulatory Agencies have adopted administrative resoluetons approving the
Codes of Conduct
28.   This condition has been met. "Codes of Conduct" in line with international best
practices have been put in place in all Superintendencies through 9 administrative resolutions.
13. The Borrower has ensured that the necessary measures have been taken to enable the
entry of two eligible private providers of personal commmnications sysgems Into the
telecommunications sector
29.   This condition has been met in substance. One new PCS license and one new
GSM license have been granted instead of the two PCS licenses required in the condition.
Resolutions No. 1063 and 1133 of 1999 issued by the Superintendence of
Telecommunications award the bidding for the granting of concessions and licenses for
personal communications services to the joint-venture Western Wireless International -
COMTECO (GSM) and grant license for the use of electromagnetic frequencies to Empresa
de Telecomunicaciones Nuevatel (PCS) to provide personal communications services. There
are now four different options for customers of mobile telephones. The Telecommunications
Sector in Bolivia is undergoing a fundamental transformation. The introduction of a new
mobile operator has improved competition, services and numbers of customers. Prices have
been reduced, as operators introduced new payment plans in a truly competitive market. The
Government opened the sector to full competition in November of last year. This has already
attracted new players to the market.
14. (a) The Borrower has divested YPFB's holdings covering: (i) natural gas distribudon
networks in the cities of El Alto, La Paz, Oruro and Tarija, and primary natural gas
- 44 -



distribution networks in the cities of Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Sucre, and YPFB
shares in the Cochabamba and Santa Cruz natural gas distribution companies; (ii) liquid
gas bottling plants; and (iii) ten gasoline stations
30.   This condition has not been met. (i) The CONAPE approved a Supreme Decree
enabling the privatization and concession of the natural gas network distribution. The
preparations for privatization of the natural gas distribution network were duly completed and
an appropriate bidding process was held. However, no bids were received. In the currently
depressed and uncertain economic environment, there are unlikely to be any qualified buyers
ready to put up sufficient resources. (ii) Liquid gas bottling plants: LPG is still subsidized and
subsidization and privatization strategies need to be made consistent. In a fragile social and
economic environment a wide and extended consensus building process is required to avoid
social unrest and back tracking in the substantial progress achieved in the hydrocarbons
sector. The Government has agreed with the IMF that LPG will be the only subsidized good.
(iii) The gasoline stations have been transferred and are under private operation, but a law still
needs to be passed to fully formalize the transfer. Given the economic situation, and the fragile
social conditions, this is as far as it is reasonable to go until circumstances improve. It is
therefore recommended that this condition be waived.
14. (b) The Borrower has entered into agreements for sale or joint ventures with private
managementfor three YPFB refineries
31.   This condition has been met. As a result of an international bidding competition,
the Supreme Decree (D.S. 25588) of 1999 awards the YPFB refineries of Santa Cruz and
Cochabamba to the joint-venture Asociaci6n Petrobras Bolivia SA-Perez Companec
International. The third refinery in Sucre has been transferred to the workers who have been
operating it since July 2001. It really functions as a wholesale operator instead of a refinery.
Legislation that validates the transfer of Sucre refinery to former YPFB workers is in process.
14. (c) The Borrower has withdrawn YPFB from wholesale marketing operations,
including sale of hydrocarbons storage facilities in the cities of Cochabamba, La Paz,
Santa Cruz and Tarija, and sale or rental of the remaining hydrocarbonsfacilities
32.   This condition has been met. YPFB's   hydrocarbons storage facilities were
transferred to private enterprises and the Government approved the Supreme Decree No.
25530 which provides the tax treatment for wholesale transactions of refineries. The national
territory was divided into ten primary and three secondary blocks that were all successfully bid
to either private operators or companies created by YPFB workers (in three cases). All
hydrocarbon storage facilities were sold.
-45 -



III. Overall Assessment
33.   Bolivia has made significant and consistent progress in all substantive areas
envisioned in the SAC and has achieved the development objectives of the credit in spite of
the difficult economic situation. The macroeconomic policy framework of Bolivia is deemed
satisfactory by the IMF (see Attached IMF Comfort Letter).
IV. Recommendation
34.   The Borrower is carrying out the program  in a satisfactory manner; the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is deemed satisfactory; the Government of
Bolivia has fully complied, in form and substance, with the majority of the conditions for the
second tranche release, specified in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement IDA-3143-0-BO and
No.3143-1-BO; the requested disbursement would provide the authorities with much needed
financing; and the support of the Bank's SAC as well as the country's regulatory reform
program are of great strategic importance. Therefore, I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the waivers and authorize the Association to notify the Government of
Bolivia that the second tranche of the SAC is available for disbursement.
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
June 20, 2002
-46 -



IBRD 31131
68              660              64              620              60                  1 0o
,10  B R A Z I L 
2t ./                                BOLIVIA
0 Nacebe    irta)                                     MAIN ROADS
\E60.           A  DO       e/      ;                              *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
'  (  jg'9  >\t)  2  $  tb                      i)  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS          12-
120   \             l .o 4cFIor Flo                                   0    SELECTED TOWNS
\Sari Jo uin  ~2'k4a  t  s > t_DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
cPt Heath                                               -   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LUL Rogaguado                                         d Iolena
-140     lI mt)i
,5-  CL >enabeque  /  y   a:: 0      A       A       I     ~B R A Z I L
Apolo           naou               Trin,idad              t  
To t     J       b                      -7 
Cuzca    Caraza, 
Matoron o(r e                                                                                      16 |
(Qchora~~ ^~~ f  \  <5   ~~S<t       Sanla Cru}9~0  Sa          ,lacio
1 802.            j   ru'.                                                                    0Sto! Ci'R <orazo
20 T,Uyur, *                  jBoy                   e            /
Mat>                oTk     i       Q Pt                                    n ARAG  A et
X,,/Y      ~~Atacha0    El Puerile            1 ano' Paranogu6 
\   AritaCgasta 'Tar    Tupiz           TARIJA0       j                  60A
Coro/tacama                                           uerto Ba                                 a o Vo!t,u
Chog                           a l' (         to               22 ub R AtZ I L
1  C H I L E      .           ~~~~~~~~~A R G E N T I N A                          * Su ' ' C,s:o) i 
|                  ~~~~~~~~~~~This map was produced by the Map Desigri UlJt of The World Barik  Prirific  J \  _ o 8  )i
/                   ~~~~~~~~~~The bauridaries, calors,deriomiriatiaris arid oriyather rifarmatiari shown'r  240-  Oca  Cfi L '~E>'  C ,,1T
0p   o010    1n020    5   r this map do riot imply, ori the part af The World Barik Group, ariy  Anuoforiosi  rq  'ooc,.
1   0   50  100  150 200 20 ud eorithelealstatus of riy territory,or ariyM  sridarsemerizor  (   nsucon
680              660              640              62              f' A R GE N T I N A /O,
L                                                                      2 0 00rio A  rir
ORU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR20









OMAGONG
Report No.:         25076
Type:     ICR



