Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3143-0-BO 
3143-1-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 25, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3143-0-BO 
3143-1-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 25, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 23, 1998 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement regulatory reforms benefiting the financial, infrastructure and business 
sectors (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, and with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
"Project means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions"; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
"(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and 
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administrative Procedures Law" means the law to be proposed to the 
Borrower’s Congress to establish administrative procedures for decision making and 
provide legal recourse against administrative resolutions, in accordance substantially 
with principles agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)
"Basic Sanitation Law" means the law to be proposed to the Borrower’s 
Congress to: (i) expand water and sanitation services in a sustainable way; (ii) 
promote private investment in water and sanitation infrastructure; (iii) define the 
institutional framework of regulatory and operational authorities, including the 
functions and regulatory responsibilities for providers of water and sanitation 
services; and (iv) establish guidelines for tariffs, coverage and service quality, in 
accordance substantially with principles agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(c)
"Basic Sanitation Law Regulations" means the regulations to the Basic 
Sanitation Law to be issued by the Borrower following enactment of the Basic 
Sanitation Law covering the following subjects: (i) concession and licensing 
framework; (ii) rules for the setting of tariffs and connection fees; and (iii) 
service standards;
(d)
"Codes of Conduct" means the operational and procedural guidelines and 
regulations to be approved by each one of the Regulatory Agencies, (as defined 
hereinafter), including the following principles: (i) legitimacy; (ii) transparency; 
(iii) efficiency; (iv) accountability; and (v) independence from the regulated 
sectors;
(e)
"Competition Law" means the law to be proposed to the Borrower’s Congress 
to promote efficient markets and ensure fair competition practices, adequate flow of 
information and the protection of consumer rights, in accordance substantially with 
principles agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g) 
"DGF" means Deposit Guarantee Fund, an autonomous legal entity to be 
established by the Borrower for the administration of the DGS, (as defined 
Page  3
hereinafter), pursuant to the provision of the FSF Law, (as defined hereinafter); 
(h)
"DGS" means Deposit Guarantee System, the system to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the FSF Law, (as defined hereinafter), in order 
to create a comprehensive bank failure resolution framework; 
(i)
"Electricity Law" means Law No. 1604 of December 21, 1994 and published 
in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 21, 1994;
(j)
"Eligible Electricity Distribution Providers" means the legal entities 
operating under the laws of the Borrower for the provision of electricity distribution 
services which are listed in the letter from the Borrower of even date herewith;
(k)
"Eligible Water and Sanitation Providers" means the legal entities 
operating under the laws of the Borrower for the provision of water supply and 
sanitation services which are listed in the letter from the Borrower of even date 
herewith;
(l)
"Financial Regulations" means the regulations to be issued by SBEF (as 
defined hereinafter), covering the provisioning requirements for financial 
institutions based on clear criteria for asset classification, and liquidity risk 
incurred by such institutions; 
(m) 
"FSF Law" means the law to be proposed to the Borrower’s Congress to 
provide for legal, normative and institutional mechanisms for the resolution of 
banking crises, and to strengthen the enforcement capabilities of the supervisory 
agencies, in accordance substantially with principles agreed between the Borrower and 
the Association;
(n)
"IDA RITO Resources" means the amount of the allocation specified in 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and made by the Association for the benefit of the 
Borrower under the Association’s Fiscal Year 1999 Allocations of IDA RITO Resources as 
set forth in Resolution IDA/R98-147-dated September 28, 1998;
(o)
"Non-Bank Financial Intermediary Law" means the law to be proposed to the 
Borrower’s Congress to consolidate and restructure the regulatory framework affecting 
non-bank financial institutions, in particular savings and loan associations (Mutuales 
de Ahorro y Préstamo), in accordance substantially with principles agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association;
(p)
"PCP Law" means Popular Credit and Property Law of the Borrower, Law No. 
1864 of June 15, 1998 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 22, 
1998; 
(q)
"Regulatory Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower’s Superintendency 
of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF); Superintendency of Pensions, Securities and 
Insurance (SPVS); Superintendency of Appeals (SRJ); and SIRESE, (as hereinafter 
defined); and "Regulatory Agency" means any one of the above entities; 
(r)
"Regulatory Agencies’ Employment Benchmarks" means the benchmarks to be 
adopted by the Regulatory Agencies determining the staffing size of such Agencies in 
accordance with international best practice;
(s)
"SIRESE" means the regulatory system of the Borrower established pursuant 
to the provisions of the SIRESE Law, (as hereinafter defined), and other relevant laws 
and regulations for the purpose of regulating and supervising the telecommunications, 
power, hydrocarbons, transportation, and water sectors; 
(t)
"SIRESE Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1600 of October 28, 1994 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 28, 1994;
(u)
"Superintendency of Basic Sanitation" means the Borrower´s regulatory 
agency for the basic sanitation sector to be established under the Basic Sanitation 
Law;
(v)
"Superintendency of Electricity" means the Borrower’s regulatory agency 
for the electricity sector established under the SIRESE Law; and
(w)
"YPFB" means the Borrower’s hydrocarbons company established pursuant to 
the provisions of the Borrower’s Decree-Law dated December 21, 1936.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 30,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, 
with each withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date of such withdrawal, and 
which includes an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,0000) representing an allocation of IDA 
RITO Resources made by the Association.  
Section 2.02. (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central 
Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 15,900,000, including the amount of the IDA RITO Resources, unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the 
macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program as determined 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association; (ii) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii) that the 
actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
(e)
After a date twelve months from the date of this Agreement, (i) except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made with respect to IDA 
RITO Resources, or any part thereof, and (ii) the Association may at any time after 
such date, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of IDA RITO 
Resources, or any part thereof, from the Credit Account. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days (60) 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2009, and ending August 1, 2038.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2018 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Governor of the Central Bank of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  6
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date February 23, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Enrique Ackermann 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower: 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718 
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors
728
728.43 Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and Goldsmiths’ 
or silversmiths’ wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
Page  8
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has enacted the Administrative Procedures Law.
2.
The Borrower has submitted the draft Competition Law to the Borrower’s Congress.
3.
The Borrower has enacted the FSF Law.
4.
The Borrower has ensured that the Financial Regulations have been adopted.
5.
The Borrower has enacted the Non Bank Financial Intermediary Law.
6.
A consultative body to coordinate the development of norms for the sectors 
regulated by SIRESE has been established.
7.
The Borrower has enacted the Basic Sanitation Law and issued the Basic 
Sanitation Law Regulations.
8.
The Borrower has appointed the head of the Superintendency of Basic Sanitation.
9.
The Borrower has entered into six concession agreements with Eligible Water and 
Sanitation Providers. 
10.
The Borrower: (a) has entered into four concession agreements with Eligible 
Electricity Distribution Providers; and (b) has amended the Electricity Law in order 
to enable the Borrower’s Superintendency of Electricity to regulate the services of 
the electricity distribution providers.
11.
The Borrower has ensured that DGF is fully operational, including: (a) the 
assessment of contributions by financial institutions to DGF; (b) the establishment of 
a contingent line of credit from the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; and (c) the 
appointment of DGF´s board of directors.
12.
The Regulatory Agencies have adopted administrative resolutions approving: (a) 
the Regulatory Agencies´ Employment Benchmarks; and (b) the Codes of Conduct.
13.
The Borrower has ensured that the necessary measures have been taken to enable 
the entry of two eligible private providers of personal communications systems into 
the telecommunications sector.
14.
The Borrower: (a) has divested YPFB’s holdings covering: (i) natural gas 
distribution networks in the cities of El Alto, La Paz, Oruro and Tarija, and primary 
natural gas distribution networks in the cities of Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Sucre, 
and YPFB shares in the Cochabamba and Santa Cruz natural gas distribution companies; 
(ii) liquid gas bottling plants; and (iii) ten retail gasoline stations; (b) has 
entered into agreements for sale or joint ventures with private management for the 
three YPFB refineries; and (c) has withdrawn YPFB from wholesale marketing operations, 
including sale of hydrocarbons storage facilities in the cities of  Cochabamba, La 
Paz, Santa Cruz and Tarija, and sale or rental of the remaining hydrocarbons storage 
facilities.
Page  9
