Report No. PID6871
Project Name                     Bolivia-Regulatory Reform Sector r() N
Adjustment Credit (RRSAC)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       BOPE57030
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Contact:
Mr. Alberto Valdes
Vice Minister of Public Investment
and External
Cooperation
Ministry of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 011-591-2-314761
Fax: 011-591-2-359955
Environmental Category           C
Date PID Prepared                October 8, 1998
Date of Previous PID             September 3, 1998
Appraisal (planned)              October 10, 1998
Board Date (planned)             December 3, 1998
Signing (planned)                December 14, 1998
Effectiveness (expected)         January 25, 1998
1.      Background.  Achieving strong sustainable growth in Bolivia has been a
key issue since the successful stabilization of the economy in 1985.
Successive governments have engaged in structural reforms which have reduced
economic distortions and a strong public sector presence in the economy.
However, only recently has a basic regulatory framework for the financial and
infrastructure sectors been established and a set of key enterprises been
privatized. Deepening of financial services still needs to be furthered, and
the competitive environment for the remaining real sectors of the economy -
agribusiness, industry, and commerce - still needs to be addressed. While the
country achieved solid growth of 3.3 percent per year on average during 1990-
96 (slightly above the LAC average), this performance has been below hopes and
expectations. Difficulties restoring confidence in an economy which has
suffered hyper-inflation and delays and shortcomings in the extent of
structural reforms, as well as very weak institutional capacity, have
constrained private sector development and thus contributed to the gap between
potential and actual performance.
2.      In response to this situation, the current Government has endorsed a
National Action Plan based on four pillars: opportunity (generation of growth
with better distribution), institutionality (strengthening of the
institutional framework), equity (an increase in the living standards of the
poor), and dignity (removal of the country from the drug circuit by the year



2002). Generating growth through the strengthening of the financial sector
and the creation of sound supporting institutions that allow the private
sector to operate in a transparent and predictable environment are two main
objectives of the Government's development strategy. This project and a
parallel technical assistance project (the Regulatory Reform and Privatization
Technical Assistance Credit) have been designed to contribute to the
achievement of those objectives.
3.      Project Objectives and Description.   The International Development
Association's proposed RRSAC intends to support the Government's initiatives
in strengthening regulatory reform in the financial, infrastructure, and
business sectors, in privatizing state-owned enterprises, and in improving the
provision of infrastructure services. The development objectives of the
project are as follows: (i) strengthen the stability and efficiency of the
financial sector; (ii) enhance the legal and regulatory framework for
infrastructure and business; and (iii) promote improved provision of goods and
services through the privatization of state-owned enterprises and the reform
of public-service cooperatives.
4.      To achieve these objectives, the Government's program supported by the
RRSAC envisions the following reforms:
(a)     Financial Sector Regulation: (i) creation of a deposit guarantee
system; (ii) legal, regulatory, and normative changes to financial institution
supervision; (iii) legal and regulatory changes related to the evaluation of
financial-sector risks; (iv) reforms related to financial institutions' access
to liquidity; (v) clarification of the institutional structure of supervisory
and regulatory authorities; and (vi) enhancement of the supervisory and
enforcement capabilities in the financial sector supervision agencies.
(b)     Infrastructure: (i) revision of the regulatory framework law and
support to the improvement of the institutional relationship between the
general regulatory authority and the executive branch of the Government,
including revision of oversight and monitoring responsibilities; (ii) adoption
of an administrative procedures law; (iii) adoption of a competition law and
institutional support for a new competition authority; (iv) adoption of a
transport concession law and concession regulations; (v) divstiture of key
remaining hydrocarbons company (YPFB) operations; and (vi) introduction of
competition in the delivery of telecommunications services, including awarding
of a PCS licenses.
5.      Project Cost and Financing.   The RRSAC amounts to US$ 40 million to be
disbursed in two tranches.
6.      Rationale for IDA Involvement.   While the Government of Bolivia has taken
strong ownership of this operation, IDA played an important catalytic role in
focusing the attention of a large number of agencies on the need to advance
the design and implementation of the reform measures supported by this
project.
7.      Project Implementation.   The implementation of the reforms envisioned by
the RRSAC is supported politically by a close dialogue with all stakeholders
concerned, and technically by the parallel technical assistance project
referred to above.
8.      The project has been assigned an environmental category of "U" in
accordance with Operational Directive 4.01.
- 2-



9.  Contact Point:                The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager: Axel Peuker
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8676
Fax: (202) 522-2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 3 -



