Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19244
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 43720-TH
July 26, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B36.9
(June 15, 1999)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -      Asian Development Bank
AMC  -      Asset Management Corporation
BOT  -      Bank of Thailand
CGAS  -     Country Assistance Strategy
EFAL -      Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
FCRL -      Finance Companies Restructuring Loan
FIDF  -     Financial Institutions Development Fund
FRA  -      Financial Restructuring Authority
FSLAP -     Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
GOT  -      Government of Thailand
ICR   -     Implementation Completion Report
IMF  -      International Monetary Fund
LOI  -      Letter of Intent
MOC  -      Ministry of Commerce
MOF  -      Ministry of Finance
QAG  -      Quality Assurance Group
SBA  -      Stand-By Arrangement
SET  -      Stock Exchange of Thailand
SEC  -      Securities and Exchange Commission
SFO   -     Special Financial Operations
TA    -     Technical Assistance
Vice President                        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director                      Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTQ
Sector Manager                        Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager                          Ijaz Nabi, Lead Economist, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 43720-TH
PREFACE                                            CONTENTS
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.          Project Objectives, Background and Description .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                               .2
C.          Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                        .6
D.  Project Sustainability                                              .7
E.  Bank Performance                                                   .8
F.  Borrower Performance .10
G.  Assessment of Outcome .10
H.  Future Operations                                                 .11
I.  Key Lessons Leared .11
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..............................................                            14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ..............................................                                15
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..............................................                                 16
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..............................................         17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ..............................................              17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ..............................................                       17
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................                                     18
Table 8B: Project Financing ..............................................                                 18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                       18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................                         19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..............................................   19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                      19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                          20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
B. Status of Policy Agreements as of December, 1998



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 43720-TH
Preface
The Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan to the Kingdom of Thailand in the amount
of US$400 million equivalent was approved on July 9, 1998, signed on July 13, 1998, and made
effective on July 22, 1998. The loan was fully disbursed the day of effectiveness. The loan closed
on December 31, 1998, which was the original closing date.
This Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll as a desk
task, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. Mr. Jayasankar Shivakumar
was the Country Director for Thailand and had overall responsibility for monitoring and updating
the policy matrix for the adjustment lending program (Annex B). Messrs. Pedro Alba (ECSTE),
Michel Cardona (SFO), Eric Haythome (LEGPS), Stefan Koeberle (EACTF-Resident Mission)
William Mako (PSDCR), Behdad Nowroozi (EAPCO), and Tom Tsui (EACTQ) provided
comments. Mr. Ijaz Nabi (EASPR-Task Manager for the loan) reviewed the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 43720-TH
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The Thai economic crisis began in July 1997. The Finance Companies Restructuring
Loan (FCRL-$350 million) was the first phase of the Bank's expanded structural adjustment
lending program to deal with the crisis and supported the resolution of suspended finance
companies (FCs) and committed the Government to comprehensive reform of the financial sector
over the next two years. A Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP-Loan
4233-TH) had already been approved by the Board in September 1997. The Economic Financial
Adjustment Loan (EFAL I-$400 million) followed the FCRL, was approved by the Board on
July 9, 1998, signed on July 13, 1998, and became effective and was disbursed on July 22, 1998.
2.    The objectives of EFAL I were to support the Government of Thailand's (GOT) program
to restore growth by: (a) deepening structural reform in the financial sector; and (b) facilitating
corporate revival. Much of the Government's program of structural reforms, including resolution
of FCs, and improving the supervisory framework and the insolvency regime, was initiated prior
to Board presentation. EFAL I is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Thailand which was presented to the Board on June 18, 1998. Annex B summarizes the
status of specific policy reforms as of December 1998.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overview
3.    EFAL I was prepared in close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
as part of the IMF coordinated $17.2 billion total support package under the Tokyo Pledge
agreed to in August, 1997. With the disbursement of EFAL I, half of the Bank's pledge had been
disbursed. Leading up to EFAL I, monetary and fiscal measures helped achieve some stability.
The Baht appreciated from 53 to 40 per US$ during January-June 1998. Inflation increased to a
little over 10 percent, far less than anticipated. EFAL I was designed to consolidate this
beginning of stabilization, deepen structural reforms, and expand reforms to the corporate sector.
I The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I) covers policies and events in
Thailand relating to the loan beginning with EFAL I preparation (April 1998) and extending to the end of 1998 (before approval of the
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan-EFAL 11).



ii
EFAL I had five major components: (a) macroeconomic and fiscal; (b) financial sector
restructuring, which included FC resolution; (c) legal reforms regarding bankruptcies,
reorganizations, secured lending, and commercial legislation and contract enforcement; (d)
financial accountability and corporate governance; and (e) public enterprise reform and
privatization.
Summary of Reforms
4.    GOT made significant progress on all major fronts associated with EFAL I as the
following summary of fulfilled Board conditions from the EFAL I policy matrix and other
actions show.
Macroeconomic and Fiscal
* Satisfactory progress in implementing the macroeconomic program (announced May 19,
1998)
* Make credit available to exporters using transparent eligibility criteria
Financial Sector Restructuring
* Adopt and implement plan to sell core assets of FCs taken over by FRA
* Measures taken to make Asset Management (AMC) fully operational including increase
of authorized capital, approval of internal policies and procedures, setting up an MIS for
asset management and disposition, and approval of bidding methodology and asset
valuation procedures for FCs taken over by FRA.
* Recapitalize FCs (and banks) based on Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) which
were based on new loan classification and provisioning rules. First MOUs signed in
July/August.
* June 1998: First sale of core financial assets. Earned 48 percent of principal.
*  BOT launched due diligence program to assess financial condition of four intervened
banks.
* BOT adopted a time-bound program to develop its institutional capacity to supervise
banks and FCs
Legal Reform
* Cabinet approved further revisions to the amended Bankruptcy Act to facilitate corporate
bankruptcies and liquidations (which were enacted after EFAL II approval). Revisions
included additional protection to creditors;who lend to distressed entities and rules
governing the denomination of foreign debt.
* GOT submitted a time-bound plan of legislative changes necessary to accelerate the
process of foreclosing on collateral. Mortgage foreclosures could take in the range of 4 to



iii
6 years to carry out. Foreclosure law may be viewed as a prelude to a modem system of
secured lending.
Corporate Sector
Governance and Financial Accountability
*  GOT adopted a time-bound program to establish an independent organization for setting
accounting standards consistent with international best practices by December 31, 1998.
*  GOT adopted a time-bound program to review and strengthen the role and functions of
the Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) to become an
independent self-regulatory professional body consistent with international best practices
by December 31, 1998
*  GOT took initial steps to improve accounting and auditing standards and practicies by
requiring that financial statements of companies and financial institutions with over B1
billion in assets be prepared and audited in accordance with international best practices
beginning in 1999
*  GOT strengthened ICAAT and prepared draft legislation that provided for establishment
of an independent accounting standards-setting body.
Corporate Debt Restructuring
5.    Under EFAL I, the Bank gained a clearer picture of the magnitude of corporate problems
and helped establish how restructuring could take place.  GOT passed bankruptcy and
foreclosure laws prior to EFAL I, which included foreclosure on debtors. Stricter revisions were
needed that imposed London rules. These rules were approved by the cabinet prior to the Board
date for EFAL I.
* Establishment of a working group by MOF to advise on corporate debt and equity
restructuring
6.   It was difficult to achieve major gains in actual restructuring until strong, enforced
bankruptcy and foreclosure laws were in place. This meant that creditors would have to have
recourse in the courts with time limits on the various stages of resolution. The framework for
these measures was set up under EFAL I. The Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory
Committee (CDRAC) developed a framework for corporate debt restructuring through voluntary
workouts with a time span of 6 to 8 months. Through the end of 1998, CDRAC identified 351
priority cases, developing Bangkok rule principles for workouts.   The other major
accomplishment under corporate restructuring was MOF's creation of a tax working group which
drafted temporary tax relief for debt restructuring. Financial institutions could take losses
(January 1, 1998-December 31, 1999), without the debtors having to pay taxes on the amount
owed.



iv
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
Cabinet approved the draft Corporatization Law to enable State-owned enterprises to
convert into corporatized companies.
7.    In summary, the objectives of EFAL I were largely accomplished by the closing date of
December 31, 1998. The performance of EFAL I is part of a broader, longer-term series of
efforts to return the Thai economy to the path of sustainable growth.
Bank Performance
8.    The Bank was able to continue its rapid intervention in the Thai crisis and deliver balance of
payments assistance. The Bank, with the Government and other donors, further developed specific
aspects of stabilization and structural reform over a two-year period. Major observations of Bank
performance include the following: (a) the rapid follow-up of EFAL I was appropriate for Thailand's
general reform and liquidity needs, but somewhat too rapid for the financial sector reforms; (b) the Bank
improved its understanding of the depth of the crisis; (c) the Bank improved its preparation and
implementation of the loan; (d) the Bank carried out a large program of much needed TA; (e) initially, the
Bank followed closely the Fund prescription for the Thai crisis, including the tight fiscal stance, which
the Fund subsequently loosened; (f) the Bank and the Fund did not fully agree on the use of TA to assess
the remaining financial institutions, but were in close agreement on the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws;
(g) the FRA mandate should have been broader; and (h) although it was activated late in the
process, the AMC finally played a role in asset sales.
Future Operations
9.    The second Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL II) was the immediate
follow-up operation, effective March 1999. EFAL II supports Government efforts to deepen
structural reform in the financial and corporate sectors, to strengthen the competitive foundations
of the economy and to pursue fiscal stimulus, especially through programs for social protection.
EFAL II gained leverage for additional BOP assistance as the Japanese provided $600 million of
parallel financing. The fourth and final planned loan of the two-year structural adjustment
program will incorporate all of the elements of the previous three loans and add measures to
improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations. The Bank may exceed its original pledge of
$1.5 billion to assist Thailand with crisis management and structural reforms.
Lessons Learned
10.   Some of the lessons learned from FCRL continued to apply under EFAL I (see ICR for
Finance Companies Restructuring Loan). The major new lessons from EFAL I are:
* A good counterpart can be created. The corporate reform program needed a strong
counterpart. CRDAC was formed and developed a framework to do workouts for 351 troubled
corporations. In addition, "whether" a working group is formed is not as important as "how" a



v
working group is formed. The precursor to CDRAC mainly debated the relevant issues. It was
the actual establishment of the CDRAC office that created an operationally effective
counterpart (supported by TA).
* The importance of maximizing reform commitments at the peak of a crisis. Opportunity
for reform is often great when a crisis is at its peak. EFAL I might have achieved more if
deeper and broader reforms had been agreed before the Thai crisis had eased.
*  Why Governments might carry through unpopular reforms. Certainly, the loan funds
attached to reforms are an incentive, but even large loans are usually small when compared to
the economic reallocations caused by reforms. One reason why unpopular reforms are
implemented is that there is a core of people in the country involved in preparing and
articulating the reforms (if there is true government ownership of the program), who have come
to understand the economic logic behind the reforms and become a force for reform within the
country. An example is the gradually increasing Thai acceptance of the foreclosure principle,
which may run counter to long established cultural values.
.  Drafting legislation benefits from broad participation.  When legislation is prepared
stakeholders should be involved in order to communicate their priorities. In EFAL I, it proved
very useful to involve private sector law finms in the areas of bankruptcy and foreclosure early
in the drafding stage. The legislation was able to reflect the priorities of debtors and creditors,
which were the clients of these law firms. Under the Thai constitution, once a law is drafted,
laws must be submitted for a public hearing to elicit the concerns of stakeholders and the
general public.
-  Currency declines do not automatically dictate a tight fiscal stance. A currency decline
may have a demand depressing wealth effect. In a regional crisis, the export response from the
currency decline may also be dampened, further diminishing aggregate demand. Still, import
demand may be reduced substantially, yielding a significant current account surplus. In this
scenario, tight fiscal policy would further restrict demand, when stimulative policies are needed,
such as social safety net transfer payments that increase the budget deficit.
*  The Bank's deliberations with the IMF. If the Bank would like to be in a stronger position
in the macro policy discussion, then some economists will have to have sufficient time to
focus on general macroeconomic issues. Bank economists tend to be heavily occupied with
operational issues to be on an equal footing with IMF economists and be able to fully
professionally judge and offer amendments to the IMF's program.
*  Pressing TA requirements call for flexible and shorter procurement processes (e.g., one
week as opposed to three months). The SFO concept, with its flexible budget, proved effective
in this regard during EFAL I.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 43720-TH
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives and Description
1.   In a continuing effort to address the Thai financial crisis, the Bank funded a $400 million
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I) which was approved by the Board on July 9,
1998, signed on July 13, 1998, and became effective on July 22, 1998. It was disbursed in a
single tranche on the day of effectiveness. EFAL I followed the $350 million single tranche
Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL), effective December 1997. The FCRL was the
first phase of the Bank's expanded structural adjustment lending program in Thailand and
supported the resolution of suspended finance companies (FCs) and committed the Government
to comprehensive reform of the financial sector over the next two years. A Financial Sector
Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP-Loan 4233-TH) had already been approved by the
Board in September 1997. The FSIAP financed technical assistance to the Thai authorities
during the adjustment operations and remains under implementation.
Objectives
2.    The objectives of EFAL Iwere to support the Govermment of Thailand's (GOT) program
to restore growth by: (a) deepening structural reform in the financial sector; and (b) facilitating
corporate revival. The Government's program of structural reforms was specified in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy which was signed by the Minister of Finance (see
President's report P-7240-TH, June 16, 1998, Schedule 1). Many of the reforms, including
resolution of FCs, and improving the supervisory framework and the insolvency regime were
initiated prior to Board presentation. EFAL I is fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Thailand which was presented to the Board on June 18, 1998. Because the
policy actions supported by EFAL I were completed, the Government met the conditions to
justify continued expanded Bank lending of US$1.5 billion ($750 million remaining) for the two-
year emergency period. (This total may be revised upward.) Annex B summarizes the status of
specific policy reforms as of December 1998.
Background
3.    Like the FCRL, EFAL I was prepared in close cooperation with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), as part of the IMF coordinated $17.2 billion total support package under
the Tokyo Pledge agreed to in August, 1997. Consistent with the frontloading strategy, three
fourths of the IMF share had been disbursed by June 1998. With the disbursement of EFAL I,



half of the Bank's pledge had been disbursed. Details of the IMF/Bank coordinated efforts are
found below.
4.    Since FCRL and leading up to EFAL I, monetary and fiscal measures helped achieve
some stability. The Baht appreciated from 53 to 40 per US$ during January-June 1998. Inflation
increased to a little over 10 percent, far less than anticipated. EFAL I was designed to
consolidate this beginning of stabilization, deepen structural reforms, and expand reforms to the
corporate sector.
Description
5.    EFAL I continued the reform program begun under FCRL, and added measures to revive
the corporate sector and reform public enterprises.  This broader scope recognized that
Thailand's crisis extended into the real sector. EFAL I had five major components: (a)
macroeconomic and fiscal; (b) financial sector restructuring, which included FC resolution; (c)
legal reforms regarding bankruptcies, reorganizations, secured lending, and commercial
legislation and contract enforcement; (d) financial accountability and corporate governance; and
(e) public enterprise reform and privatization. The agreed division of labor between the Bank
and the IMF was that the IMF would focus on the macroeconomic and fiscal component of the
program, as well as on recapitalizing commercial banks, while the Bank would deal with the
resolution framework for finance companies (FCs), and strengthening the supervision and
regulatory framework for the entire system. The IMF and the Bank worked together on
corporate restructuring, reform of the legal framework and corporate governance.
6.    EFAL I provided $400 million to GOT's reform program described in the Letter of
Development Policy and was disbursed against expenditures except those specified in Schedule 1
of the Loan Agreement. EFAL I was designed to lay the ground for two further adjustment
operations that would continue financial and corporate reform and strengthen the competitive
environment.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Recent Macroeconomic Performance
7.    Macroeconomic indicators were mixed after loan effectiveness. There were several
positive signs, but also clear indications that the crisis was deep. GDP was estimated to have
fallen by 8 percent in 1998. Unemployment rose to over 5 percent in 1998, compared with 0.9
percent in 1997. Compounding this decline was the regional slump, led by the recession in
Japan. Thai export prices fell 13.8 percent, which more than offset volume growth of 8.1 percent
for an overall decline in export value of 6.8 percent in 1998. Country risk measures (the spread
of the 10-year Yankee bond over comparable U.S. debt) were volatile, but recently settled at the
same level as at the beginning of 1998. The current account surplus was estimated at almost 14
percent of GDP, but most of this surplus was driven by the sharp reduction in import volumes.
Several indicators suggest that the economy may have bottomed out. The exchange rate
remained stable at B41-42/US$ until September, then appreciated to B36-38/US$ in the first
quarter of 1999. Money market interest rates fell from 18 to 3 percent and lending rates from



-3 -
15.4 to 11 percent by January 1999. Demand and supply indicators suggest a leveling off, with
GDP predicted to grow slightly in 1999. There was another positive signal from the market that
Thailand was recovering when the private sector purchased a sovereign bond floated by the
Energy Generation Authority of Thailand (EGAT) for $300 million at 285 basis points above
LIBOR. The Bank supported the transaction with a guarantee of principal at maturity (at ten
years or the bullet point). The Bank also guaranteed one, and only one, six-month coupon
payment should EGAT experience short-term financial difficulties.
Table I Selected Economic Indicators
Real GDP growth ()8.8    5.5    -0.4                         -8.0        1.0
Consumption                      7.1    6.7      0.1       -11.4        0.6
Gross fixed investnent          11.2    6.0   -16.0        -28.7       -2.0
CPI inflation (average, %)        5.8    5.9      5.6         8.1        1.9
Saving and Investnent (% of GDP)
Gross domestic investment       41.6   41.7    35.0         25.4       26.6
Gross national saving           33.3   33.7    32.9         37.6       35.6
Balance of payments ($ billions)
Exports, f.o.b.                 55.7   54.7    56.7         52.8       55.0
Imports, c.i.f.                 70.4   70.8    61.3         40.8       45.0
Current account balance        -13.2  -14.4    -3.0         13.8       10.5
Capital account balance (private)    20.8   19.5    -9.1    -9.6       -3.9
Gross Official Reserves          36.9   38.7    27.0         29.6       36.0
Sources: World Bank, IMF
Summary of Actions
8.    GOT made significant progress on all major fronts associated with EFAL I as the
following summary of fulfilled Board conditions from the EFAL I policy matrix and other
actions show.
Macroeconomic and Fiscal
9.    In general, Thailand achieved important macroeconomic objectives, which include:
*  Satisfactory progress in implementing the macroeconomic program (announced May 19,
1998)
*  Make credit available to exporters using transparent eligibility criteria



-4 -
Financial Sector Restructuring
Resolution of Closed Finance Companies
* Adopt and implement plan to sell core assets of FCs taken over by FRA
* Measures taken to make Asset Management (AMC) fully operational including increase
of authorized capital, approval of internal policies and procedures, setting up an MIS for
asset management and disposition, and approval of bidding methodology and asset
valuation procedures for FCs taken over by FRA.
* Recapitalize FCs (and banks) based on Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) which
were based on new loan classification and provisioning rules. First MOUs signed in
July/August.
* June 1998: First sale of core financial assets. Earned 48 percent of principal.
Safety and Soundness of the Financial Sector
* BOT launched due diligence program to assess financial condition of four intervened
banks.
* BOT adopted a time-bound program to develop its institutional capacity to supervise
banks and FCs
Legal Reform
10.   The Thai authorities had been working on a revision to the bankruptcy law for about 12
years when a revision providing for court administered corporate reorganization was submitted to
Parliament in September 1997 (enacted in April 1998). Previously, the only option for insolvent
corporate debtors was liquidation. EFAL I supported further improvements in legal refonn.
* Cabinet approved further revisions to the amended Bankruptcy Act to facilitate corporate
bankruptcies and liquidations (which were enacted after EFAL II approval). Revisions
included additional protection to creditors who lend to distressed entities and rules
governing the denomination of foreign debt.
* GOT submitted a time-bound plan of legislative changes necessary to accelerate the
process of foreclosing on collateral. Mortgage foreclosures could take in the range of 4 to
6 years to carry out. Foreclosure law may be viewed as a prelude to a modem system of
secured lending.
Corporate Sector
Governance and Financial Accountability
11.   The main accomplishment of this component was to take steps toward improving the
reliability of corporate financial reporting and disclosures. These steps helped restore market
confidence. GOT made strong commitments in this area (see below), which included a number
of measures to rationalize the institutional framework for setting accounting and auditing
standards, and ensuring compliance. GOT also committed to strengthening the financial



- 5 -
oversight of boards of directors and shareholders' rights, essentially through conducting reviews
of the duties of boards, accountability of directors and management, and shareholders' rights.
GOT also reviewed the institutional framework for enforcing laws and regulations governing
public companies, including the roles and responsibilities of the Stock Exchange of Thailand
(SET), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Ministry of Commerce (MOC).
The reviews led to legislative recommendations for improving minority shareholders' rights,
increasing accountability of officers and directors, imposing sanctions for breach of duties by
directors and officers of public companies, and increasing effectiveness of enforcement. These
recommendations are to be supported under EFAL II.
*  GOT adopted a time-bound program to establish an independent organization for setting
accounting standards consistent with international best practices by December 31, 1998.
*  GOT adopted a time-bound program to review and strengthen the role and functions of
the Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) to become an
independent self-regulatory professional body consistent with international best practices
by December 31, 1998
*  GOT took initial steps to improve accounting and auditing standards and practicies by
requiring that financial statements of companies and financial institutions with over B1
billion in assets be prepared and audited in accordance with international best practices
beginning in 1999
-  GOT strengthened ICAAT and prepared draft legislation that provided for establishment
of an independent accounting standards-setting body.
Corporate Debt Restructuring
12.   Under EFAL I, the Bank gained a clearer picture of the magnitude of corporate problems
and helped establish how restructuring could take place. GOT chose a voluntary approach to
restructuring motivated by "as strong desire to rely on market-mediated mechanisms as much as
possible." For any approach to work, a legal framework had to be in place. As discussed, GOT
passed bankruptcy and foreclosure laws prior to EFAL I, which included foreclosure on debtors.
Stricter revisions were needed that imposed London rules. These rules were approved by the
cabinet prior to the Board date for EFAL I.
* Establishment of a working group by MOF to advise on corporate debt and equity
restructuring
13.  It was difficult to achieve major gains in actual restructuring until strong, enforced
bankrqDtcy and foreclosure laws were in place. This meant that creditors would have to have
recours&,in the courts with time limits on the various stages of resolution. The framework for
these measures was set up under EFAL I. The MOF established a working group to provide
Xvice on corporate debt and equity restructuring under the name of the Corporate Debt
Restructuring Advisory Committee (CDRAC). CDRAC is chaired by the Chairman of the BOT
and has representatives from debtor and creditor associations in Thailand. CDRAC developed a
framework for corporate debt restructuring through voluntary workouts with a time span of 6 to 8
months. Through the end of 1998, CDRAC identified 351 priority cases, developing Bangkok
rule principles for workouts, establishing a timeline for workouts, and slotting the 351 cases into



-6 -
this timeline. Also by the end of 1998, B157 billion had been restructured, compared with an
overall caseload of B650 billion.
14.   To support corporate restructuring, the BOT set up a monitoring unit to identify the most
complex debt restructuring cases. In January 1999, the BOT established a CDRAC office which
developed contracts to bind debtors and creditors to meet Bangkok rule timelines. Work outs are
backed by selective bankruptcy filings. GOT also supported the inter-creditor agreement, which
commits parties to a time-bound plan for corporate debt restructuring. (The companion debtor-
creditor agreement on debt restructuring is also being signed). The other major accomplishment
under corporate restructuring was MOF's creation of a tax working group which drafted
temporary tax relief for debt restructuring. Financial institutions could take losses (January 1,
1998-December 31, 1999), without the debtors having to pay taxes on the amount owed.
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
* Cabinet approved the draft Corporatization Law to enable State-owned enterprises to
convert into corporatized companies.
15.  In summary, the objectives of EFAL I were largely accomplished by the closing date of
December 31, 1998. The performance of EFAL I should also be viewed as part of a broader
longer-term series of efforts to return the Thai economy to the path of sustainable growth. EFAL
I was the second loan in a series of four planned loans dealing with major aspects of the crisis
and supported many of the measures laid out in the Government's LDP from the previous FCRL.
The third loan, the Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan II (EFAL II), expands to include
measures to ease the impact of adjustment on the poor and unemployed. The fourth loan will
expand further to incorporate measures to improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   EFAL I was a continuation of the adjustment program begun under FCRL and was prepared
shortly after FCRL approval in order to maintain the momentum of the reform process. EFAL I
faced additional challenges to implementation. First, with the partial easing of the crisis, reform
urgency was not as great as under FCRL, although GOT's reform commitment remained strong.
Second, EFAL I broadened the scope of the program begun under FCRL, had to carry out some of
the more difficult measures laid out under LDP from FCRL, and went deeper into financial sector
reforms. EFAL I was prepared also on a fairly tight timetable, though not as accelerated as under
FCRL. Substantive preparation was during April-May 1998 and EFAL I was negotiated in June
1998. No Board conditions were waived and the entire $400 million principal was disbursed in a
single tranche on the same day. The closing date for EFAL I was December 31, 1998.
17.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. Although its compliance with
loan conditions was good, macroeconomic variables did not respond as well as expected
immediately after loan effectiveness due to external factors. The regional nature of the crisis
dampened the export response that would normally come with substantial currency depreciation.



-7 -
There was a perceptible increase in political resistance during 1998. For example, assets sales
were also not popular with the public as the perception arose that Thailand's assets were
auctioned off at bargain basement prices to wealthy interests and foreigners. Another negative
external factor was the emergence of the Brazilian crisis that delayed the EGAT bond issue.
18.   The continuity of government from FCRL through EFAL I was generally an advantage to
implementation. The checks and balances that characterized the coalition government were both
an advantage and a disadvantage. On one hand, through checks and balances, a broad consensus
on reforms was reached. On the other, reforms were slowed down as in the cases of the
bankruptcy and foreclosure laws (which were planned for October 1998, but did not happen until
March 1999).
19.   Factors generally subject to Government control. Measures within the Government's
control were laid out in the Letter of Development Policy. The substantial progress made with
respect to those factors is detailed in Section B. above. This progress can be attributed largely to
the reform commitment by the GOT and concerted efforts by the donors. The govermment
economic team continued to make substantive contributions to the policy dialogue and, thus,
established ownership of the reform program.
20.   On the negative side, there was some resistance reform attributed to the easing of the
crisis and some degree of "creeping complacency" before full implementation of the reform
program. Both the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws were difficult measures to pass. While
reform measures went through the lower house of Parliament fairly smoothly, conflicts of
interest arose with members of the upper house (Senate), who owned some of the bad assets
affected by the pending legislation. Delay in resolving some of the troubled entities might have
allowed time for asset value would recover.
21.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. Both the BOT and MOF
performed well and were committed to reform. The Minister of Finance, in particular, was a
strong supporter of the reforms. Implementation capacity at the BOT was somewhat stronger
than at MOF, but there was some pockets resistance to reforms in mid-level management.
BOT's capacity was also strained to deal with both crisis management and structural reforms.
BOT's and MOF's coordination on the technical level could be improved, especially in the
exchange of financial information, which was often inconsistent. The Auditor General of
Thailand performed well as coordinator of the corporate governance component, which required
coordination of many institutions, including SEC, SET, MOC, ICAAT, MOF, and BOT.
D. Project Sustainability
22.   The sustainability of the overall program including the reforms implemented under EFAL
I is enhanced by continued assistance of the FSLAP through funding for technical support for the
resolution of troubled finance companies and development of improved financial regulatory and
supervisory capacity. A second TA focussing on corporate restructuring will also promote
reforms in that area (planned for August 1999). The Special Financial Operations (SFO) unit
was fully established after FCRL (February 1998), and continued to conduct a substantial TA



-8 -
program in the financial sector. Critical to the success of structural reforms was having both the
funding and a permanent team to manage the TA.
23.   Sustainability of the EFAL I program as a whole is promoted because most of the reform
measures are in place and are mutually reinforcing. Despite some obstacles in legal reform and
slow progress in corporate restructuring, overall progress in implementing the objectives of
EFAL I was satisfactory. Future planned operations (see section H.) support a continued process
of stabilization and reform that will include deeper corporate sector reforms, mitigation of the
social side affects of adjustment, and address competitiveness issues. EFAL II supported the vast
majority of the LDP commitments from EFAL I, that had not yet been implemented. Future
operations will be valuable in counteracting any complacency that develops as the economy
inproves.
E. Bank Performance
24.   This section reviews the major issues of Bank performance on the basis of what was a
reasonable standard at the time as well as what would have been the best course in retrospect.
Overall, the Bank actions to lessen the impact of the crisis and solve the underlying causes were
successful.
* The rapid follow-up of EFAL I was appropriate for Thailand's general reform and liquidity
needs, but somewhat too rapid for the financial sector reforms.
Thailand needed further liquidity infusions and to launch a broader reform program that
included corporate restructuring. The broadening of the program argued for a quick
follow-up. However, the financial reforms needed more time to mature for the
adjustment lending to afford much reform leverage. For example, no targets could be
added for auctions because the deadline under FCRL for completing auctions was already
ambitious. Second, the recapitalization process took time and no MOUs could be drafted
in time for EFAL I. However, the Bank and the IMF agreed that MOUs would not be
necessary until mid-August 1998. Financial sector reforms relied to a greater extent on
the LDP and gained greater leverage from the IMF's quarterly review which followed.
* The Bank improved its understanding of the depth of the crisis
The Bank, and the IMF, first diagnosed the crisis as a purely financial crisis that could be
stemmed within the financial sector, thus focussing on the symptom rather than the root
cause.  The early prescription was to resolve troubled financial intermediaries and
stabilize the currency. Expansion to the corporate sector under EFAL I and broader use
of fiscal policy tools was more appropriate to the true nature of the crisis.
* The Bank improved its preparation and implementation of the loan
EFAL I was more organized and orderly than FCRL. Also, SFO had been set up and was
able to organize its own TA program from the start of the loan.



- 9 -
*  The Bank carried out a large program of much needed TA
SFO's main activities were in the form of TA geared toward FC resolution, capacity
building in the supervisory, regulatory and accounting areas of financial sector refonns,
and diagnostic reviews of most of the remaining FCs (February to December 1998). In
addition, the FSIAP TA had been under implementation since the end of 1997. The TA
was essential to drafting a meaningful bankruptcy law, drafting MOUs for FC
recapitalizations, and for intervening in troubled financial institutions. TA was also
funded through grants (PHRD, IDF), which helped to strengthen capacity at BOT and
ICAAT and establish an independent accounting body.
* Initially, the Bank followed closely the Fund prescription for the Thai crisis, including the
tight fiscal stance, which the Fund subsequently loosened
As was traditional, the Bank followed the IMF's lead and prescriptions on macro policy,
but not without a free discussion of ideas at the working level. Although there was
disagreement on the fiscal stance, it would have been difficult to go to the Bank Board
with a different macroeconomic scenario. The IMF's tight fiscal stance had been based
on the belief that the external demand (exports) would pick up much of the decline in
domestic demand (as the result of a substantial depreciation of the Bhat). Instead, export
value did not increase, in large part because of the regional drag, weak demand from
Japan, and exports from other crisis countries that maintained their relative
competitiveness with Thailand.
In addition to the dampened export response, the recession was much deeper than the
IMF had foreseen. As the IMF recognized the depth of the recession, it loosened its fiscal
stance. As the 1998 growth projections for the Thai economy were constantly revised
downwards, the target budget deficit climbed. The IMF also became increasingly
accommodating of social safety nets.
* The Bank and the Fund did not fully agree on the use of TA to assess the remaining financial
institutions, but were in close agreement on the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws
The Fund did not support TA that would provide examiner consultants to banks, which
the Bank felt was necessary because it was estimated that about 40 percent of the loans of
the banking sector were classified as non-performing. The Fund was concerned that that
type of TA would undermine the credibility of Thai banks. On bankruptcy and
foreclosure, the IMF had done some early preparatory work and included these areas in
its Letter of Intent (LOI). From early 1998 onward, the Bank and the Fund worked
closely with Thai authorities to improve the insolvency system.
* The FRA mandate should have been broader
As with FCRL, EFAL I implementation would have benefited from a broader mandate
for the FRA that would have included: dealing with additional FCs beyond the original
56; authority to do loan workouts that would have reduced non-performing loans
(NPLs); and enhanced the sale price of financial assets; and managing assets. The



- 10-
broader mandate might have helped reduce the period during which the assets were
suspended and returned them sooner to the economy.
Although it was activated late in the process, the AMC finally played a role in asset sales
The June auction was successful, as the AMC did not need to purchase assets. The
December 1998 auction was not as successful, with only 40 percent of loans sold and at
only $0.25 on the dollar. (Although, the December loans were of lower quality than the
assets sold in June). A new auction was carried out in March 1999 and most assets were
sold to AMC which was to do loan workouts.
25.  In summary, the Bank was able to continue its rapid intervention in the Thai crisis and
deliver balance of payments assistance. The Bank, with the Government and other donors,
further developed specific aspects of stabilization and structural reform over a two-year period
supported by large, single tranche operations. The Bank consistently held its position that a
Government plan for effective financial restructuring and macro-economic stabilization were
essential conditions for Board presentation of EFAL I and closely monitored the measures in the
policy matrix.
F. Borrower Performance
26.   As measured by its commitment to implement specific structural reforms under EFAL I,
Government performance is considered satisfactory. The Government committed to a detailed
timetable of actions in its Letter of Development Policy at the time of the previous loan, FCRL,
and accomplished almost all of its policy reforms specified under the objectives of the loan.
Perfornance was especially good in the continued resolution of the FCs, establishing a
framework for corporate workouts, and generally halting the economic slide, if not actually
contributing to a turn around.
27.   However, there also appeared to be some increase in political resistance during 1998.
The resistance was probably a reflection of the increasing depth of the reforms, as well as reform
complacency spawned by a premature sense of recovery, and opposition from members of the
Thai upper house. These factors created obstacles to reform progress as shown by the difficulty
of passing both the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws.
28.   BOT, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts for the EFAL I in
accordance with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the program would be audited
within four months of Bank request. Government compliance with legal covenants under EFAL
I was considered satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
29.   The overall performance and outcome of the EFAL I was satisfactory, as the vast
majority of specific policy measures, and therefore the major objectives of the loan, were
achieved and assessed to be sustainable. This rating is consistent with the rating by EASPR of



- 11 -
meeting development objectives (Project Status Report) at project close (Satisfactory). Because
it was not an investment operation, calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and
economic rates of return is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
30.   The second Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL II) was the immediate
follow-up operation, effective March 1999. EFAL II supports Government efforts to deepen
structural reform in the financial and corporate sectors, to strengthen the competitive foundations
of the economy and to pursue fiscal stimulus, especially through programs for social protection.
EFAL II gained leverage for additional BOP assistance as the Japanese provided $600 million of
parallel financing. The fourth and final planned loan of the two-year structural adjustment
program will incorporate all of the elements of the previous three loans and add measures to
improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations. The Bank may exceed its original pledge of
$1.5 billion to assist Thailand with crisis management and structural reforms.
1. Key Lessons Learned
31.   Some of the lessons learned from FCRL continued to apply under EFAL I, such as the
importance to program success of a qualified counterpart, of close and intensive TA, and the
relative merits of single vs. double tranche operations (see ICR for Finance Companies
Restructuring Loan). The major new lessons from EFAL I are:
*  A good counterpart can be created.  The corporate reform program needed a strong
counterpart. CRDAC was formed and developed a framework to do workouts for 351 troubled
corporations. In addition, "whether" a working group is formed is not as important as "how" a
working group is formed. The precursor to CDRAC mainly debated the relevant issues. It was
the actual establishment of the CDRAC office that created an operationally effective
counterpart (supported by TA).
*  The importance of maximizing reform commitments at the peak of a crisis. Opportunity
for reform is often great when a crisis is at its peak. EFAL I might have achieved more if
deeper and broader reforms had been agreed before the Thai crisis had eased.
*  Why Governments might carry through unpopular reforms. Certainly, the loan funds
attached to reforms are an incentive, but even large loans are usually small when compared to
the economic reallocations caused by reforms.  One reason why unpopular reforms are
implemented is that there is a core of people in the country involved in preparing and
articulating the reforms (if there is true government ownership of the program), who have come
to understand the economic logic behind the reforms and become a force for reform within the
country. An example is the gradually increasing Thai acceptance of the foreclosure principle,
which may run counter to long established cultural values.
* Drafting legislation benefits from broad participation. When legislation is prepared
stakeholders should be involved in order to communicate their priorities. In EFAL I, it proved



-12-
very useful to involve private sector law firms in the areas of bankruptcy and foreclosure early
in the drafting stage. The legislation was able to reflect the priorities of debtors and creditors,
which were the clients of these law firms. Under the Thai constitution, once a law is drafted,
laws must be submitted for a public hearing to elicit the concerns of stakeholders and the
general public.
*  Currency declines do not automatically dictate a tight fiscal stance. A currency decline
may have a demand depressing wealth effect. In a regional crisis, the export response from the
currency decline may also be dampened, further diminishing aggregate demand. Still, import
demand may be reduced substantially, yielding a significant current account surplus. In this
scenario, tight fiscal policy would further restrict demand, when stimulative policies are needed,
such as social safety net transfer payments that increase the budget deficit.
*  The Bank's deliberations with the IMF. If the Bank would like to be in a stronger position
in the macro policy discussion, then some economists will have to have sufficient time to
focus on general macroeconomic issues. Bank economists tend to be heavily occupied with
operational issues to be on an equal footing with IMF economists and be able to fully
professionally judge and offer amendments to the IM's program.
* Pressing TA requirements call for flexible and shorter procurement processes (e.g., one
week as opposed to three months). The SFO concept, with its flexible budget, proved effective
in this regard during EFAL I.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Neglgible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                   0             0               0               0
Sector Policies                  0             0 3             0l
Financial Objectives  :          O                             0               0
Institutional Development         l            El              0               0
Physical Objectives              0             0               O               0x
Poverty Reduction                0             03              E               Ol
Gender Issues                    E             El              0               0x3
Other Social Objectives          0             0               0               0
Environmental Objectives         O             O               E               03
Public Sector Management         Cl            0E 0                            0
Private Sector Development       0             0               0               0
Other (specify)                  0             0               E               O
B. Project Sustainability                                Unlikel                Uncertain
(1t)                    (1/)                     )
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
(/)                   (V)                     (v')
Identification                   0                     El 0
Preparation Assistance           0                     0                        El
Appraisal                        E                     0                       E
Supervision                      El                    0                       0



- 15 -
(Continued)
Highly
D. Borrower Performance        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Deficient
(if)                  (/)                    (e)
Preparation                                                                  03
Implementation                  [3                                           0
Covenant Compliance             aJ                                           03
Operation (if applicable)       O                     O                      0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(0,'()                       (V)             (10
0:            0              0               03
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose             Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Financial Sector       Provide TA to GOT to         FY 98         Under
Implementation Assistance   develop a program  of                    Implementation
Project                   structural reform in the
financial sector
2. Finance Companies      Provide BOP assistance,       FY98          Closed
Restructuring Project    resolve troubled finance
companies and restore
confidence to Thailand's
financial sector.
Following operations
1. Economic and Financial Deepen financial and         FY 99         Under
Assistance Project II     corporate sector reforms,                   Inplementation
improve competition
policies and social safety
nets.



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                              4-5/98
Appraisal                                                                 6/98
Negotiations                                                              6/98
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)                       6/98
Board Presentation                                                        7/98
Signing                                                                   7/98
Effectiveness                                                             7/98
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                     7/98
Loan Closing                                                             12/31/98
Table 4: Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY99
Appraisal estimate          400
Actual                      400
Actual as % of estimate     100
Date of final disbursement   7/22/98



- 17 -
Table 5: Project Implementation
Estimated          Actual
L Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. For all indicators, see Matrix of Policy
Actions-Annex B
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program Operation
Estimated            Actual
I. Key operating indicators in PAD
1. For all indicators, see Matrix of Policy
Actions-Annex B
Table 7: Studies Included in Program
Study                                 Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES



-18-
Table 8.A: Program Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ millions)                (US$ millions)
Item                                Local Foreign   Total         Local Foreign   Total
costs  costs                  costs   costs
1 .Balance of Payments Assistance          400      400                   400      400
Total                                      400      400                   400       400
Table 8B: Program Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ millions)                (US$ millions)
Item                                Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs  costs                  costs   costs
IBRD                                       400      400                   400       400
Total                                      400      400                   400       400
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 19 -
Table 19: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present Original     Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement  Section  Type       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan        3.02 (b)  I        C       12/31/98                Audit of Deposit Account
Covenant types:                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds        by categories 1-9                   NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                        I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                                   FULL COMPLIANCE
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks       US$           Weeks          US$             Weeks        US$
Preparation                   21.0      83.6            12.0         35.2             41.0        142.6
Appraisal                                               15.5         42.2             20.7        41.6
Negotiations                                            4.0          11.8              6.3         17.7
Supervision                  21.5       57.4            29.5         83.0             28.0        86.7
Completion                                                                             3.0         7.5
Total                42.5       141.0           61.0        172.2             99.0       296.1



- 20 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratng    Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month!  No. of  Days in SpecializationI  Implem.   Developm. Problems3
Year    Persons Field                    status     objectives
Appraisal through                15      120     E,F,LEG         S           S
Supervision Completion
Total                     15      120
1 - E: Economics, F: Financial, LEG: Legal



ANNEX A
BORROWER' S CONTRIBUTION






Anex A Page I of 3
The Kingdom of Thailand
Government's Evaluation Report on
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I)
Loan No. 43720-TH
The objectives of EFAL I were to support the Government's program to restore growth by (1)
deepening structural reformn in the financial sector; and (2) facilitating corporate revival.
EFAL I was the second of three loans for the Government of Thailand approved by the World
Bank in support of the stabilization and structural reform measures announced in the $17.2 billion
Tokyo financing package of August 1997. The financing package was a coordinated strategy by
multi-lateral and bilateral partners to assist Thailand's efforts at crisis management and recovery.
Background
EFAL I was presented to the World Bank board July 9, 1998, one year after the onset of
Thailand's twin financial and currency crises in July 1997. During the first year of the crisis,
Thailand's efforts were focused on stabilizing the Baht exchange rate through macroeconomic
policy, and restructuring the financial sector. The first year of the crisis also revealed that the
structural causes of Thailand's crisis went beyond the financial sector. Thus, the reform agenda
represented in EFAL I included issues of corporate governance, corporate debt restructuring, and
public enterprise performance.
The economy was beginning to show signs of stability in response to the adjustment program by
mid-1998.  Significant progress had been made in closing failed financial institutions,
establishing mechanisms for sale of their assets, and in building market confidence through an
improved prudential and regulatory framework for the remaining financial institutions. However,
economic contraction, combined with devaluation of the Baht and liquidity shortages, caused
firms across a broad.spectrum of economic activity to curtail their economic activity. The steep
rise in non-performing loans revealed underlying weaknesses in the governance and financial
management of firms. This provided a setting for a broader policy agenda including support for
legal reform, tax and institutional support for corporate restructuring, governance and financial
accountability, public enterprise reform and privatization.
The funds provided under EFAL I were timely both in terms of the balance of payments support
as well as in signaling to the market that a well-financed strategy was in hand to address the root
causes of the crisis in the financial, corporate and public enterprise sectors.
Measures supported by the loan
Specifically, the measures taken under EFAL I focused on the following outcomes:
* Maintaining macroeconomic stability and fiscal balance.
* Implement the macro-economic framework developed with the IMF
* Implementing a less contractionary fiscal policy in order to stimulate aggregate demand.
1. Introducing regulatory reforms to encourage corporate restructuring
*  Improved tax treatment of mergers and acquisitions and asset transfers
* Remove impediments to corporate debt restructuring



Anex A Page 2 of 3
2. Resolution of intervened financial institutions
* Implement the sale of the assets of intervened finance companies
* Establish the Asset Management Company (AMC) to manage, restructure, collect, and
resell assets.
* Establish Radhanasin Bank to bid on high quality assets.
3. Promoting the safety and soundness of the financial sector
* Develop a comprehensive framework for financial sector supervision
*  Accounting, external auditing and disclosure standards for financial institutions
*  Establish an explicit deposit protection scheme
4. Providing legislative and institutional frameworks for corporate bankruptcy, reorganization,
and secured lending
* Develop and submit to Parliament improvements to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483
* Submit to parliament amendments to the Civil and Commercial Code on foreclosure and
secured lending
5. Improve corporate governance and financial accountability
*  Rationalize the institutional framework for accounting standards
* Improvement quality of financial information provided by public corporations through
upgraded audit requirements, audit committee oversight
*  Strengthened shareholder rights and enforcement
6. Establish the framework for public enterprise reform
Comments
Structure of the Loan
EFAL I was a single tranche loan that was followed up sequentially, by additional single tranche
operations. In light of the need for balance of payments support and rapid disbursement, this was
appropriate. The Thai Government views World Bank support as a program of loans, one
building upon the other. This flexible programmatic approach allows a focus on economic
management issues as the crisis unfolded. However, breaking up loan conditions into Board and
Letter of Development Policy components (that were taken up as Board conditions in the next
loan) was a mixed blessing. It made for tedious and laborious preparations and negotiations at a
time when Government resources were stretched to the limit. But, at the same time it helped
maintain a sharp focus on the content and timing of the action that needed to be taken.
Policy Focus and Selectivity
The Policy Matrix of EFAL I covered a broad range of issues and institutions. This tended to
distract from clarity and put a heavy burden on the Fiscal Policy Office to coordinate and manage
across many government agencies and line ministries. This was consistent, however, with the
Authorities' desire to undertake deep and meaningful reforms that addressed the root causes of
the crisis.



Anex A Page 3 of 3
Conclusion
EFAL I continued the high standard of cooperation initiated with the World Bank under the
Finance Companies Restructuring Loan in September 1997, and set the stage for deepening of the
reforms under EFAL JI. The authorities are appreciative of the hard work that has gone into the
structural reform program. The benefits can be seen clearly in the outcomes of macro-economic
stability and return of market confidence.






ANNEX B
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
DECEMBER 1998






ANNEX B Page 1 of 17
SCHEDULE 2: THE POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. MACROECONOMIC AND FIscAL
1. Fiscal Stimulus
Issue: Resumption of economic growth requires    The Borrower has prepared specific spending    Maintain an appropriate macroeconomic framework to
providing a fiscal stimulus to the economy.       projects totaling about one percent (1%) of gross   support a demand stimulus to accelerate recovery.
Obe s Idomestic product, and has allocated an amount of
Objectives: Increase aggregate demand via expansion    about forty percent (40%) of said amount to
of public expenditure programs.                   expenditures  to  protect the  poor, including
expenditures on: (a) public workfare, and (b)
means-tested cash transfer and in-kind transfer.
The Borrower has adopted a program to make
more credit available to corporate entities carrying
out government contracts.
Il. FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
1. MANAGING PROBLEM INSTITUTIONS
1. Orderly Resolution of the 56 Closed Finance Companies
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize the sale of assets of   Independent experts of international standing selected    Within three months of the purchase of assets from the
the 56 finance companies. The AMC is expected to   by MOF have completed a satisfactory review of the    FRA, the AMC  will prepare a plan  for the
take part in the sale as a bidder of last resort, and    FRA and of the AMC.                        management and ultimate disposition of these assets.
needs to have capacity to fulfill this role.      The FRA has completed the third round of auction    As quickly as possible, the FRA will have initiated the
Objectives: Continue showing concrete progress in   of core financial assets and has formulated an    process of adjudication of claims to creditors.
the resolution of FCs which have been taken over, so   action plan to deal with residual assets.
as to enhance confidence of the domestic and    The FRA has finalized and communicated to creditors
international markets.                            the procedures for submitting and adjudicating claims.



ANNEX B Page 2 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD            |          LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Restructuring and recapitalization of the Core Financial Institutions
Issue: The authorities must continue to take timely   The BOT has approved:                        By the second quarter of 1999.
action against the weakest financial institutions.  *  a time-bound plan for the consolidation of the    *   KIT will have completed full integration of the
Program:  Continued  implementation  of  loan      twelve finance companies Into KTT, and for the      intervened  finance  companies  and  UBB,
classification and provisioning standards in line with  subsequent consolidation of KTT with UBB;     including recapitalization of the combined entity
best international practices, with intervention and    * a  plan  for  the  recapltalization  of  the  after full provisioning; and
resolution of nonviable institutions,              consolidated KTB                                *   The Government will have completed the
The Bank of Thailand has signed Memoranda of         operational restructuring and recapitalization of
Understanding with all banks and finance companies   KTB after the full provisioning.
needing to raise additional capital through June 1999.    By the second quarter of 1999, FBCB license will
BOT will have developed an operational restructuring    have been revoked.
plan for the combined KTB, which should include   By the third quarter of 1999, RAB will have been
steps toward its privatization within two years.  privatized.
By the fourth quarter of 1999, winning bids will have
been selected for the privatization of BMB and SCIB.
2. STRENGTHENING TNE FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE
1. Strategyfor thefuture offinancial services (see also 2.3 and 3.1)
Issue: The Government needs to address the broader   The Financial Services Task Force (FSTF) has been  By May 31, 1999, the FSTF will have:
structural problems preventing the financial sector   established.                                 *   Identified, with assistance from the Bank, the
from acting as a prudent and efficient intermediary of                                                 i     t b  a
issues to be addressed to achieve a sound and
savings,                                                                                               efficient financial sector, and
Objectives: Identify and implement reforms needed to                                                   Reviewed the interim  report, prepared with
ensure that the financial sector is safe, sound, efficient                                             assistance from the Bank, on upgrading financial
in pricing and delivering financial services.                                                         sector policies and infrastructure.
By August 31, 1999, the Task Force will submit its
final recommendations to the MOF, based on the final
report prepared with Bank assistance.



ANNEX B Page 3 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                       LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Capital market devdopment
Issue: The bond market needs to be developed to   The Working Group for Domestic Bond Market   The Working Group will take measures to remove
ensure the successful placement of Government bond    Development has identified areas that need to be   possible impediments to private sector purchases of
issues.                                          addressed to deepen the government bond market and    bonds, and will establish an action plan to reform the
Objectives: Lay the foundation of a sustainable bond    has  established   Task   Forces  to  develop    debt and risk management system of the public sector.
market with sufficient breadth and depth to facilitate   recommendations on each identified issue.  BOT will start to develop a comprehensive system
the raising of capital by the private sector, facilitate the                                       integration for automated delivery-versus-payments.
conduct of monetary policy, and enhance systemic
stability and growth.
3. Specialized Financial Institutions (SFIs)
Issue: Preliminary assessments of the financial   On-site examinations have been initiated in all SFIs   By May 31, 1999, MOF will adopt a time-bound
operations of the SFIs indicate the need to upgrade    under BOT supervision.                      action plan, to strengthen the financial condition and
their risk management capacity and internal controls.  BOT has adopted a preliminary action plan to enable it  risk management capacity of those SFIs which will be
Objectives: Strengthen the financial operations of the   to  carry  out effectively  its new  supervisory    used for enhancing credit expansion
SFls, which play a major role in the Thai financial   responsibility over SFIs.                    By September 30, 1999:
system. Evaluate role and mandate of SFIs in view of                                               * MOF will have confirmed or revised the role and
the current transformations in the financial system.                                                 scope of each SFI's activities and their fiscal
treatment.
* the Borrower will review the capitalization needs of
the SFIs based on BOT examinations.
* BOT will have adopted a detailed time-bound
action plan for the supervision of SFls. The plan
will include deadlines for the preparation and
submission of appropriate amendments to the law
and the issuance of enhanced prudential rules.
3. ENHANCING THE REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY REGIME
1. A comprehensive supervision framework
Issue: Financial institutions are currently supervised                                             By June 30, 1999, MOF will have established a Task
by several agencies. This approach can result in gaps                                              Force of all supervisory authorities whose purpose is
in the supervisory process and inconsistent decisions                                              to identify and draft those regulatory changes required
regarding the supervision of financial functions.                                                 to supervise financial conglomerates effectively and
Objectives: Harmonize prudential regulations and                                                   ensure consistency in the prudential regulation and
supervision  to promote fair competition  among                                                    supervision of all financial institutions.  The Task
different financial institutions and the soundness of the                                          Force will submit its report and recommendations by
sector.                                                                                            December 31, 1999.



ANNEX B Page 4 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                       LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Strengthening supervision and regulation effinancial institutions
Issue: Banking supervision needs to be strengthened in   The BOT has completed a review  of the draft   The BOT will complete a review of the draft Law on
terms of both supervisory capacity and legal foundations   commercial bank and finance companies laws.  Central Bank by April 30, 1999.
for the regulation and supervision of financial                                                    By April 30, 1999, the Borrower will have made
institutions. Complementing the work of Bank staff, a                                              public  the  recommendations  of  the  Steering
Steering  Committee of international experts is                                                    Committee of international experts, and its intentions
providing its own recommendations on these matters.                                                with regard to such recommendations.
Objectives: Strengthen BOT operations and legal                                                    By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet approval will be sought
authority to support its mandate of supervision and                                                for a new draft Financial Institutions Law (covering
regulation of financial institutions including authority                                           banks and finance companies) to strengthen the
to take prompt corrective action.                                                                  regulatory  framework  for financial institutions,
including prompt corrective action.
3. Deposit insurance scheme
Issue and Objectives: Best practice mandates a                                                     Draft  legislation  authorizing  a  limited-deposit
limited deposit insurance scheme to minimize moral                                                insurance scheme will be submitted to the Cabinet for
hazard and provide sustainable funding of financial                                               its approval.
intermediaries.                                                                                                                                   l
Ill. CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
1. STRENGTHENING THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworks for corporate bankruptcies and reerganizations.
Issues: The legislative and institutional framework for   The Borrower has taken the following measures to    Govemment will continue its review and updating of
corporate insolvency needs to be strengthened to   strengthen  the  legislative  and  institutional   the legislative, procedural, and institutional regimes
facilitate the reorganization of companies and to   frameworks  for  corporate  restructuring:  (a)   for corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations under
maximize recovery of distressed assets.          further revisions to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483   the auspices of the Bankruptcy  Law  Reform
(1940), as amended, have been approved by the    Committee with representation from the MOJ, MOF,
Lower House of Parliament to facilitate the process    Attomey General's Department, conmmercial banking
of corporate bankruptcy and reorganization; (b) an    community, private law firms, and others.
Act to establish the bankruptcy court and its
proceedings has been passed by the Lower House of
Parliament; and (c) the Borrower has adopted an
action plan to enhance the capacity of the Ministry
of Justice to expedite the processing of bankruptcy
cases.



ANNEX B Page 5 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworkfor secured lending.
Issues: Existing procedures for the enforcement of   The Borrower has taken the following measures to   In mid-1999 the secured lending bill will be submitted
secured rights by creditors are subject to delay. The    strengthen  the  legislative  and  institutional   to Cabinet for its approval.
types of assets that can legally be used by debtors to   frameworks for secured lending: (a) amendments
secure loans are limited to a narrow group of assets.  to the Code of Civil Procedure to expedite the
Objectives and Program: Facilitate the provision of   enforcement of security  interests  have  been
credit through a comprehensive legislative regime for    approved by the Lower House of Parliament; and
secured lending, including suitable procedures to   (b) to facilitate the use and enforcement of security
speed up the realization of secured interests.    interests and to create new security interests, the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has adopted
an action plan to prepare additional draft
legislation, including legislation regarding   the
establishment of an automated modernized registry
l_______________________________________________________ system.
2. STRENGTHENING THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
1. Facilitate information sharing among creditors on debt service performance by individual companies.
Issues: A  lack of infonnation on debt service    The Cabinet has approved the establishment of a    By  July  31,  1999  draft  legislation  for the
performance by individual companies increases the    Credit Bureau open to all financial institutions and    establishment of the Credit Bureau will have been
reluctance of financial institution creditors to extend    trade creditors.                           submitted to Parliament.
credit.                                                                                              Subject to approval by Parliament, the Credit Bureau,
Objectives and Program: Establishment of a Credit                                                    with authority for full exchange of information among
Bureau would improve lending decisions and help                                                      participating creditors (e.g. banks, finance companies,
limit the access of firms who choose to default on                                                   trade creditors and branches of foreign banks) shall
obligations to increased credit.                                                                     have been duly established and begun operation.



ANNEX B Page 6 of l7
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD            7           LETrEit OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Faciltate debt/equity conversions and the efficient sale of distressedfinancial assets.
Issues:  Because of high leverage in the corporate  BOT has put into effect a regulation to enable the    A Working Group, which consists of public and
sector, the exchange of non-performing debt for equity  establishment  and  operation  of  private  asset   private sector representation, is reviewing potential
will be frequently used as a restructuring instrument.  management companies,                      impediments to the efficient sale of distressed debt,
The legal infrastructure for such transactions is                                                   sale of converted equity, or professional management
incomplete, particularly with respect to the issuance of                                            of converted equity on behalf of financial institutions.
new shares to retire debt.                                                                          If necessary, by May 31, 1999, the Working Group
Financial institutions are restricted from owning more                                              will submit to  the  Cabinet for its approval
than 10% of the equity of any firn, and from owning                                                 amendments to relevant regulations which  will
property outside of their own headquarters and branches.                                            facilitate the disposition and effective management of
Furthermore, financial institutions are not prepared to                                             converted equity.
manage and dispose of these assets in a manner
consistent with maximizing recovery. The creation of
vehicles to acquire and professionally manage distressed
assets may considerably improve governance and
promote restructuring.
3. Eliminate remaining tax disincentives to corporate restructuring.
Issue:  Consolidation,  through   mergers  and    The  Working  Group  on  tax  impediments  to    Based upon its review of recommendations from the
acquisition, is likely to be a common feature of   restructuring has been reconvened to consider the need    Working Group, the Revenue Department will prepare
corporate restructuring.  Improvements to the tax   for improvements to the tax treatment of mergers,   any necessary amendments to the Revenue Code.
treatment of mergers and acquisitions may further   acquisitions and other restructuring transactions. This
facilitate industry consolidation and new investment.  Working Group has solicited suggestions from private
Objectives and Program: The Revenue Code will be   sector experts.
amended to eliminate remaining tax disincentives to
corporate restructuring.  Public and private-sector
experts would jointly identify issues and necessary
changes to the Revenue Code.



ANNEX B Page 7 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD             |LETTER OF DVLPETPOLICY
3. SPEEDING THE RESTRUCTURING PROCESS
1. Previe improved monitoring of pregress on corporate restructuring.
Issue: While the task of corporate restructuring    The Borrowver has put into effect an Improved
remains appropriately focused in the private sector, the   system   to  monitor  progress  in  corporate
task of monitoring progress in corporate restructuring    restructuring to enable it to revise the estimate of
is appropriately centralized. The monitoring provided    progress in corporate restructuring and provided
by the Corporate Debt Restructuring  Advisory    monthly updates thereof.
Committee and Bank of Thailand to date has been    CDRAC  is supporting improved sequencing  of
incomplete, irregular, and inadequate to support a    voluntary workouts (e.g. encourage a creditor meeting
comprehensive understanding of the task.          within 30 days after a loan becomes non-performing)
Objectives and Program: A centralized monitoring    and continues to identify impediments to successful
system would permit the setting of realistic goals,   resolution.
facilitate  an  efficient sequencing  of corporate    CDRAC   is  supporting  the  enhancement  of
restructuring cases in the private sector, identify   professional  restructuring  capacity  and  public
impediments and bottlenecks for timely resolution,   awareness of corporate restructuring through the Thai
and facilitate infornation-sharing between creditors on    Bankers  Association,  Association  of  Finance
debtor liabilities and debt-service performance.  Companies, and Federation of Thai Industries.
BOT requires creditors to choose to either continue a
voluntary restructuring process, court-supervised
reorganization, or bankruptcy within 90 days of the
initial meeting between lead creditor and debtor.
2. Develop an efficient mechanism to resolve disputes amongfinancial institution creditors.
Issue: As negotiations with debtors progress, serious   BOT has provided to financial institution creditors   If creditors are unable to devise a mechanism for
differences among creditors may arise. Interests and    a sample arbitration contract to encourage the    facilitating agreement on a restructuring plan, BOT
sensitivities will differ depending upon whether the    development of inter-creditor dispute resolution    will review options, including the use of its own
financial institution creditor is, for examnple, secured    mechanisms and  75%, voting  thresholds for    authority  to  resolve  disputes  among  financial
or unsecured, domestic or foreign, and in a strong or   approval of restructuring plans.            institution  creditors that arise during  voluntary
weak financial position. For various reasons, major                                                 corporate workouts.
financial institution creditors are wary of any BOT or
other official arbitration of inter-creditor disputes.
Objectives and Program: A mechanism is needed
that can efficiently resolve differences among financial
institutions in a workout situation.



ANNEX B Page 8 of 17
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARI CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Develop a clear strategy concerning the position of the Government as a creditor or shareholder of distressed corporates.
Issue: Through government contracting and through    The Borrower will encourage state-owned financial
nationalization   of  financial  institutions,  the   institutions to exercise their role as creditor to speed
government is a creditor or owner of many firms that   up corporate debt restructuring.
are not performing on debt obligations to commercial
financial institutions. The existence of obligations to
the government should not result in delay of
restructuring of obligations to other creditors.
Objectives and Program: The Government will
formulate a strategy for exercising its position as a
creditor  to  encourage  and  speed  corporate
restructuring, and to eliminate delays to the process
caused by the role of publicly-owned creditors. This
strategy may include the supporting of the position of
lead creditors in the restructuring process.



ANNEX B Page 9 of 17
Objectives And Program                             Board Conditions In Bold                          Letter Of Development Policy
IV. COMPETITIVENESS
1. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1. Rationalize the institutionalframeworkfor setting standards and regulating accounting and auditing practices.
Issue: A private-sector independent organization is    The Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has    By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet shall submit draft
not responsible for the formal accounting standard-    approved  a framework to: (a) streamline the    legislation to Parliament.
setting process. Moreover, there are multiple agencies   institutional framework for setting accounting and
that regulate, supervise,  and  define  reporting    auditing standards and regulating the profession;
requirements. The  ICAAT, which  develops all   (b) establish the Thailand Financial Accounting
accounting and auditing standards, is not fully    Standard Board as an independent entity with
independent in the standard-setting process and is not    authority  to  set accounting  standards, with
a self-regulating national professional body.      members from the accounting profession, business,
.  ........    government and academia; and (c) make the
Objectives and Program: Streamline the institutional   Instftute of Certified Accountants and Auditors oft
framework for setting standards and regulating the    Thailand    an   independent   self-regulatory
accounting and auditing profession. Establish an    Thaionan    insistent            seregulatol
independent standard-setting organization, to be called    professional body consistent with international best
the Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board    practices.
(TFASB) consistent with international best practices.    The Ministry of Commerce has submitted draft
Strengthen the ICAAT's role in standard setting and    legislation to Cabinet for its approval.
regulating the profession consistent with international
best practices. An independent and self-regulating
ICAAT will be responsible for setting auditing
standards and regulating the profession.



ANNEX B Page 10 of 17
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
Z. Improve the quality and reliability of key financial informatien provided by public corporatiens to regulators, shareholders, and the general public.
Issue:   Accounting and auditing standards and    Improved accounting and auditing standards for listed    New  specific rules on accounting, auditing, and
practices, particularly  in the areas of financial   companies have been adopted, as well as large non-   financial disclosures for banks, finance companies and
statement  disclosures,  loss  recognition,  asset   listed public companies, and banks and financial   SFIs in line with international best practices will be
classification, marketable securities, debt restructuring    institutions with assets in excess of Baht I billion.   issued by June 30, 1999.
and impairment of assets, as well as audit reports, are    This includes revision of standards for financial
not consistent with intemational best practices.  statement  disclosures,  asset  classification,  and
Objectivs amarketable securities, as well as issuance of new
Objectives and Program: Upgrade accounting and    standards for troubled debt restructuring.l
auditing standards to make them  consistent with
international best practices, and revise relevant laws    The plan to improve the quality of audit reports has
and regulations as necessary to require that financial   been implemented for listed companies, non-listed
statements of public companies be prepared and    public companies, as well as banks and financial
audited in accordance with such standards beginning    institutions. The implementation included a revised
with the year 1999.                               format (proposed by ICAAT) for audit reports,
consistent with international best practices.
MOC has deleted inactive limited companies from the
registration files.



ANNEX B Page 11 of 17
Objectives And Program             T             Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
3. Strengthen thefinancial oversight role of the board of directors of eorporations by requiring the establishment of audit committees
Issue: The intemal control and the related oversight                                                Based on the review of existing requirements for the
role of the boards of directors of companies are weak,                                              audit committees of boards of directors and intemal
Audit committees of the boards of directors are non-                                                control for listed companies, by April 30, 1999, SET
existent or ineffective.                                                                            will adopt a time-bound program to implement the
Objectives and Program:  Strengthen the internal                                                    improved requirements, including committees' roles
control structure of listed companies, banks, and                                                   and responsibilities, to a level consistent with
financial institutions and the related responsibility for                                           international best practices.
oversight of the internal audit function and selection of
external auditors.
4. Improve accountability of boards of directors, management, and shareholder rights ofpublic companies
Issue: Boards of directors of listed companies and    The Working Group has submitted to MOC  its   If necessary, SEC will issue relevant rules and
financial institutions have not been effective in   recommendations  on  appropriate  changes  to   regulations which do not require changes to the
monitoring  corporate  management  performance.   legislation and regulations to improve the appointment   legislation. By May 31, 1999 MOC will submit to the
Minority shareholders have not played an active role   process of directors, ensure protection of minority    Cabinet for its approval necessary changes to the
as monitors of corporate performance.             shareholder rights, increase accountability and liability    Public Company Act.
Objectives  and   Programs:  Strengthen  the    of officers and directors, and impose sanctions in the    By April 15, 1999 SET will have revised the
effectiveness and monitoring role of boards of   case of breach of duty.                            guidelines on the code of best practice for listed
directors and enhance shareholder rights.                                                           company  directors to  a  level consistent with
intemational best practices, and will propose an
appropriate deadline for the disclosure of compliance
or non-compliance with such guidelines to be
mandatory under the SET's disclosure requirements.
5. Rationalize the regulatoryframeworkfor enforcement of laws and regulationsfor public companies
Issue: SEC and SET responsibilities overlap in   SEC has completed the review of the roles and
enforcernent of laws and regulations.            responsibilities of SET, SEC, MOC and MOF in
Objectives and Programs: Streamline and strengthen    enforcing laws and regulations related to public
the  framework  for enforcement of laws  and    companies by SEC and submitted its recomrnendations
lrthegulamewons.  for enforcement of laws  and    on such roles and responsibilities to the respective
regulations.                                      agencies for adoption.



ANNEX B Page 12 of 17
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
2. PRIVATIZATION
1. Regulatory Framework Legislationfor Privatization
Issue: Regulatory institutions in the water, telecom,                                                The Government will establish independent regulatory
energy and transportation sectors are required pursuant                                              bodies for the infrastructure  sectors to  protect
to privatization.                                                                                     consumer interests and facilitate competition. Cabinet
Objectives and Program:  To protect consumer                                                         will approve regulatory legislation for the water and
interests and encourage competition, regulatory bodies                                               energy sectors.  The Government will submit to
will be established to oversee activities in the                                                     Parliament for its approval regulatory legislation for
infrastructure  sectors, including  water, energy,                                                   the telecommunications sector..
telecommunications   and   transportation.   Such
regulatory bodies will be based on the principle of
independence, providing for transparent and non-
political procedures for selecting and funding
regulators, as well as a process of appeals.
2. Organizational Structurefor Privatization; Institutional Capacity Building
Issue: The Government requires a clear, transparent,                                                 The Government will have created an effective
and  strengthened  organizational  structure  with                                                   organizational  structure  for  overseeing   and
technical  expertise  and  sufficient  staffing  at                                                  implementing  privatization  in  each  sector. The
appropriate levels to implement its Master Plan for                                                  Government will appoint members of standing
State Enterprise Reform effectively.                                                                 committees at the State Enterprise Policy Commission
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the capacity of                                                   with the responsibility to oversee and implement
the State Enterprise Policy Commission and the Office                                                privatization  in  each  sector,  including  water,
of State Enterprises at the Ministry of Finance by                                                   transportation, telecommunications and enterprises in
establishing a sub-committee structure in each sector                                                other sectors.
to oversee the implementation of corporatization and
privatization strategies at individual enterprises.



ANNEX B Page 13 of 17
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
3. Corporafization Law
Issue: Privatization of individual public enterprises    The Corporatization  Law has been approved by the
that have not been incorporated usually requires    Lower House and is being considered by the Senate.
complex case-by-case legal approvals that lead to
delays.
Objective: A Corporatization Law would establish a
clear procedure for initiating the reform, and eventual
privatization,  of  state-owned  enterprises.  The
Corporatization Law allows state-owned enterprises to
be converted into corporate entities and wholly or
partially divested to private owners. It also establishes
a streamnlined comnmittee structure under the Prime
Ministers' Office and coordinated by the Office of
State Enterprises in the Ministry of Finance to oversee
corporatization and privatization of individual
enterprises in different sectors.
3. COMPETITION POLICY AND INVESTMENT INCENTIVES
1. Competition poliy
Issue: Rapid changes are taking place in financial and                                                Complete program  of institutional development to
real sectors as a result of the crisis and new industry                                               match the changes in the competition legislation.
structures are likely to emerge as the economy
recovers. New legislation to replace the 1979 Act
governing price fixing and anti-competitive practices
passed first reading in Parliament on October 14. The
new legislation reflects modem competition policies.
However, the institutional capacity to enforce the
legislation will need to be further strengthened to
make legislation fully effective.
Objectives and Programs: Ensure the establishment
of a solid legislative framework and an enhanced
institutional capacity to administer it.



ANNEX B Page 14 of 17
Objectives And Program                           Board Conditions In Bold                       Letter Of Development Policy
2. Investment Incentives.
Issue: Tax incentives have played an important role                                                By July 1, 1999 the BOI shall review the results of
in Thailand's investment promotion system for more                                                the FIAS study on investment incentives offered under
than three decades. In response to the changing socio-                                             the BOI. The DOI will draft a plan for rationalizing
economic environment, the incentive scheme and the                                                 Thailand's incentive scheme and the role of the BOI.
role of the BOI need to be assessed by also taking into
account the incentive programs offered by other
countries as well as Thailand overall tax regime.
Objectives and Programs: Rationalize Thailand's
incentive scheme and enhance the role of the BOI in a
broader context encompassing work other than
incentive provision.
V. POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
1. IMPROVE STRATEGIC DESIGN AND CO-ORDINATION OF SOCIAL POLICY
1. Improve the coordination of socialpolicy
Issue: A coherent social policy framework requires   The Borrower has appointed the Council of Social   By May 31, 1999 an existing agency or mechanism
coordination across multiple core and line ministries.  Ministers (National Social Policy Committee),   reporting to the Cabinet as well as to the Council of
Objective  and Program: Strengthen institutional   under the direct leadership of the Prime Minister,   Social  Ministers  (the  National  Social  Policy
Objetives and Program-  Strengrten isttutional   to develop and implement a coberent social policy,   Committee) shall be assigned to develop an action
framework for high-level integraton of the social   with NESDB serving as the secretariat for said   plan to design social protection.
policy agenda.                                   Council.
The following measures to strengthen the technical
capacity of NESDB to perform the social protection
secretariat function shall be implemented: (a) assign a
strong and effective management team for the
technical secretariat;  (b) assign personnel with
expertise in economic analysis of social policy to staff
the technical secretariat; (c) prepare a focused and
time-bound workplan to develop concrete options for
social policy reform; and (d) identify and implement
advanced staff training in critical areas.



ANNEX B Page 15 of 17
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
2. Improve the design of the old-age pension andfamily allowances system
Issue:                                           The Borrower has established, through internal    By April 30, 1999 the high level task force will begin
(a) The Social Security Act (SSA), as presently  administrative decisions, revised contribution rates    a process of consultations of the proposals in a tri-
enacted, has several flaws in tenms of equity,  to the old-age fund and the family allowances fund of    partite setting (labor, industry, and Government).
efficiency, and fiscal sustainability, and imposes a  the Social Security Office: (a) for the old-age fund,   Based on these consultations and the consultants'
severe burden on employers and employees in the  1% each from the employers and from the employees   report scheduled to be completed in October 1999, the
present economic context.                        for a period of 2 years; and (b) for the family   task  force  will  submit  to  the  Cabinet  its
. Saig-ae atmtvstpya-o-oallowances fund, 1% from the Government.            recommendations.
(b) Savings-based alternatives to pay-as-you-go
financing of social security need to be developed to  The Borrower has appointed a high-level task force with    By December 31, 1999, the approval of the Cabinet
minimize adverse labor market incentives and promote  membership from MOF, SEC, MOL, SSO and DPW to    will be sought for an integrated old-age pension
capital market development.                      evaluate the existing social security system, and develop    system, including the development of a multi-pillar
Objectives and Program:                          options for implementing an improved and integrated    system.
Improve  the  equity,  efficiency,  and  financial  pension system.                                   On the basis of the Cabinet approval, a detailed action
sustainability of the existing old-age pension and                                                   plan to reform the SSO old-age and family allowances
family allowances systems, and reduce the burden of                                                   schemes with a view to making them more equitable,
employers and employees during the crisis.                                                            efficient  and  financially  sustainable  will  be
announced.
2. PROTECTING THE POOR
1. Increase public expenditures for protecting the poor
Issue: Fiscal stimulus provides room for expanding
public expenditure on antipoverty programs
Objectives and program: Antipoverty expenditures
should be quick-disbursing and administratively
simple to implement
2. Expand provision ofpublic workfare programs
Issue: The crisis has increased unemployment and    The Borrower has: (a) adopted and made public
underemployment                                    revised criteria for its public workfare programs
Objectives an rgaunder the enhanced public expenditures program
Objectives  and Program: To provide temporary   including: (i) unskilled labor intensity of at least
employment to those seeking work at low wages.    30%  on average; (ii) remuneration for unskilled
labor set close to applicable rates in rural areas;
and (iii) poverty incidence will be a key criterion
for the geographic distribution of workfare budget;
and (b) prepared plans for monitoring and
evaluation of said workfare programs.



ANNEX B Page 16 of 17
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
3. Expand means-tested cash and in-kind transfer programs
Issue: The crisis has hurt vulnerable groups such as    Under the enhanced public expenditures program,
the elderly poor and poor families with children.  the Borrower has adopted a policy of increased
Objce acoverage for (i) cash transfer programs for needy
Objectives and Program: To protect the well-being    families and poor elderly, and (ii) the in-kind
of vulnerable groups with adequate and assured   transfer programs.
income support.
3. SOCIAL PROTECTION FOR WORKERS
1. Strengthen compliance with severance pay provisions
Issue: Due to liquidity constraints some firms are                                                   The Borrower will develop a savings-based system for
unable to meet severance payments obligations to laid                                                workers not covered by the Social Security System,
off workers.                                                                                         pursuant to the Labor Protection Act of 1998.
Objectives and Program: Protect living standards of                                                  By April 30, 1999 the Borrower will have established
unemployed workers.                                                                                  an employee welfare fund to partially finance unpaid
severance claims.
2. Develop cost-effective training and employment servicesfor unemployed
Issue:  International experience shows that active    The borrower has established a task force with
labor market programs may not be cost-effective   representation  from   workers,  employers  and
government to design, target, and evaluate cost-
Objectives  and  Program:  Improve  the  cost-   effective  training  and  employmnent services for
effectiveness of training and employment services for   unemployed workers.
unemployed workers.
4. PROTECTING THE ELDERLY
1. Strengthen voluntary providentfundsfor private employees
Issue: The existing provident funds are unsupervised                                                 The high-level task force set up to review the Social
and unregulated. They offer lump sum refunds when                                                    Security System shall develop robust supervision and
employees leave firms, with no portability between                                                   regulatory structure for voluntary provident funds and
jobs and no annuities.                                                                               to improve their portability across firms.
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the supervision
and regulatory structure of voluntary provident funds.



ANNEX B Page 17 of 17
Objectives And Program                           Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
2. Strengthen existing administrative structure in SSO
Issue:  The integrity of the SSO database is not   The SSO database has been cleaned to ensure data
adequate to support efficient administration of existing   integrity  by  (a) removing  excess records; (b)
SSO benefits, or extension thereof;               correcting misrecording of contribution collections;
Objectives and  Program: Verify  existing data   and (c) attaching the 13 digit identifier to each record.
records in SSO to ensure a clean database before
instituting additional benefit payments;
5. IMPROVE THE INFORMATION BASE FOR MONITORING
Issue: The crisis has highlighted the need for timely    The Borrower has provided adequate resources to:
and policy relevant information flows to improve the   (a) enable the carrying out in 1999 of a survey to
speed and quality of public policy response so as to    monitor poverty based on a component of the SES,
mitigate the hardship among the poor, and to improve   and  accelerate turnaround time to 3 months for
the monitoring of programs implemented.           updating the annual poverty map;
Objectives and Programs: Enhance the policy   (b Increase frequency of LFS to 4 rounds/year,
relevance of the existing household and income survey   implement appropriate questionnaire improvements
and labor force surveys.                          and seasonal adjustments, and accelerate analysis
turnaround to 3 months.



