Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7240-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
June 16, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 4, 1998)
Currency Unit = Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B 42.32
B 1.00 = US$0.0236
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
AMC   - Asset Management Company
BIBF   - Bangkok International Banking Facilities
BOT    - Bank of Thailand
CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy
CCC    - Civil and Commercial Code
CCP    - Civil and Commercial Procedures
CGD    - Comptroller General's Department
E]GAT  - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
E`GCO  - Electricity Generating Company
ElXIM   - Thai Export-Import Bank
FC     - Finance Company
F l    - Financial Institution
FCRL  - Finance Companies Restructuring Loan
FIDF   - Financial Institutions Development Fund
FMRP  - Financial Market Reform Program
FRA    - Financial Sector Restructuring Authority
FSIA   - Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
FTC    - Closed Finance Companies
F Y    - Fiscal Year
IBRD   - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAAT - Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors
IFC    - International Finance Corporation
IIAT    - Institute of Internal Auditors of Thailand
IMF    - International Monetary Fund
Vice President:  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager: Masahiro Kawai, EASPR
Task Manager:  Ijaz Nabi, Lead Economist, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JEXIM - Export-Import Bank of Japan
JTI    - Judicial Training Institute
KTB    - Krung Thai Bank
KTT    - Krungthai Thanakit Public Co., Ltd.
MIS    - Management Information System
MOC   - Ministry of Commerce
MOF   - Ministry of Finance
MOU   - Memoranda of Understanding
NESDB - National Economic and Social Development Board
NPL    - Nonperforming Loan
OECF  - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PLMO  - Property Loan Management Organization
RAB    - Radhanasin Bank
SBA    - Stand By Arrangement
SCL    - Single Currency Loan
SEC    - Securities and Exchange Commission
SEPC   - State Enterprise Policy Commission
SET    - Stock Exchange of Thailand
SFI    - Specialized Financial Intermediaries
SIP    - Social Investment Project
SOE    - State-Owned Enterprise
UCABE - Unidad Coordinadora para el Acuerdo Bancario Empresarial (the
Coordinating Unit for Bank-Enterprise Agreement in Mexico)
KINGDOM OF THAILAND - FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kingdom of Thailand.
Amount and terms:        $400 million-Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars,
with a 15-year maturity, including a 3-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard fixed US Dollar SCL interest rate.
Description:             The proposed loan is part of a two-year program  of
structural adjustment of the economy supported by four
single-tranche balance of payments support loans. The first
loan in the series, the Finance Companies Restructuring
Loan (FCRL) approved by the Board in December 1997,
supported measures toward the resolution of the suspended
finance companies and committed the Government to
comprehensive reform of the financial sector over the next
two years. The proposed loan, while further deepening the
restructuring of the financial sector, supports measures to
strengthen the corporate sector. It paves the way for two
more adjustment loans that will continue to track reform of
the financial and the corporate sectors but with a sharper
focus on strengthening the competitive foundations of the
economy.
The proposed adjustment lending program is a flexible
response to the Thai crisis. It allows a closer tracking of the
evolving crisis to commit the Government to remedial
measures, while remaining focused on the needed
fundamental restructuring of the economy. The program is
being coordinated with the IMF, ADB and bilateral lenders.
It is consistent with the objectives of the Country Assistance
Strategy.
The Government has taken a number of actions in
fulfillment of the loan conditions in the areas of the
macroeconomic  framework,  corporate  restructuring,
financial sector, insolvency regime and secured lending,
corporate governance and financial disclosure, and
privatization. The specific actions are listed in the Letter of
Development Policy (Schedule I) and the Policy Matrix
(Schedule II).



- 11 -
Benefits and risks:      The loan will help meet critical foreign exchange needs of
the Government of Thailand to strengthen the capital
account. This will boost confidence and lend stability to the
exchange rate. The loan supports the ongoing reform of the
financial sector. Orderly resolution of the closed finance
companies, restructuring and capitalization of other
financial institutions and strengthening of supervision will
make for healthy bank balance sheets and a sound capital
base to resume lending to the corporate sector. Several of
the reform measures supported by the loan will facilitate
corporate restructuring and thus will strengthen the
corporate sector to resume economic growth. Reform of
bankruptcy and foreclosure laws and corporate governance,
and a sound strategy for privatization and reform of state
enterprises, supported by the loan will restore confidence
and bring investors back to ThailandL. The proposed
structural reform will strengthen and will help modernize
the business environment in Thailand to support future
growth.
The greatest risk lies in misreading the current market
rebound as a sign of complete recovery. Although the
market is less pessimistic now than it was six months ago,
capital inflows are still small, mainly equity in selected
banks and corporations with proven track record. Creditors,
by and large, are still wary. The wrong response to the
market's "wait and see attitude" would be to declare victory
and leave unfinished the reform of financial institutions.
This might well start another round of confidence loss. In
particular, slow progress in reforming the legal and
institutional framework for bankruptcy and foreclosure
could undermine the imminent sale of assets of the closed
finance companies and would affect market confidence
adversely. Another risk lies in heavy-handed intervention in
the ongoing restructuring of financial institutions or
corporations that might crowd out market-led workouts and
result in a large fiscal cost. Among the external risks, further
instability due to regional contagion now seems less likely,
although external demand remains anemic because of the
slowdown in Japan. Finally, the fragile coalition currently in
power, whose economic team enjoys credibility, might not
last long enough to complete the reform agenda. This would
lead to another round of political and economic uncertainty.



- Hi1 -
Fortunately, recent political and economic developments
suggest that the risks outlined above are small. The
Government survived a no-confidence motion in March,
which has dispelled fears of a sudden change. The economic
leadership is aware of the risk of declaring victory
prematurely and is managing expectations accordingly.
Financial sector reform remains a top priority and progress
is satisfactory. The Government is avoiding quick-fix
remedies and is committed to modernizing the legal and
corporate governance framework for strengthening the
overall environment for doing business in Thailand.
Poverty Category:       N.A.
Estimated Disbursements: The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche upon
effectiveness.
Project ID Number:      TH-PE-54801



- iv -
CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION .........................................    1
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE ........................................1l
A. The Status of the Economic Crisis ........................................1l
B. Macroeconomic Prospects .........................................5
3. THE PROGRAM FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY .........................................                        5
A. A Less Contractionary Fiscal Policy .........................................6
B. Protecting the poor .................................6
C. Structural Reform ...............................7
4. BANK GROUP STRATEGY ..............................                                                20
A. The Bank ..............................                                                  20
B. IFC ..............................                                                        22
C. Coordination with IMF ...............................                                    22
D. Cooperation with ADB ...............................                                     23
5. THE PROPOSED LOAN ...............................                                                 23
A. Loan Size and Features ..............................                                    23
B. Conditions for Board Presentation ..............................                         24
C. Benefits and Risks ............................... 24
6. R       ECOMME NDATION ...............................                                            26
TABLES
Table 1: Thailand: Macroeconomic Framework, 1996-98 .29
Table 2:  Thailand: Summary of Public Sector Operations, 1994/95-1997/98 .30
Table 3: Thailand: Monetary Program, 1996-98 .31
Table 4: Thailand: Balance of Payments and Financing Need, 1996-98 .32
Table 5: Thailand: Short-Term Debt by Borrower Type, 1996-98 .33
Table 6:  Thailand: Outstanding Forward and Swap Obligations, 1996-98 .34
Table 7: Thailand: Interest Rates, 1996-97 .35
Table 8: Thailand: Program Monitoring, July 31, 1997 - May 8, 1998 .36
Table 9:  Thailand: Relations with the World Bank Group .............................................. 37
Table 10: Thailand: Net Capital Flows, 1992-96                  ....................................... 38
Table 11: Thailand: Relations with the Asian Development Bank                          . .    39
Table 12: Thailand: Medium-Term  Scenario, 1997-2003 .                    ................................................ 40
Table 13: Thailand: Interest Coverage Ratios of Nonfinancial Private Corporations,
1995-97 ...........................................................                      41
Table 14: Thailand: Existing Official Financing Package .                  ................................................ 42
The task team includes Ijaz Nabi (Task Manager), Michel Cardona (FSD), Stefan Koeberle (EASPR),
Behdad Nowroozi (EAPCO), Eric Haythome (LEGPS), Teresa Genta-Fons (LEGEA), Marina Moretti
(MNSPF), Jacques Bussieres, William Mako (PSDPS), Olivier Fremond (PSDPS), Pedro Alba (PRMEP)
and Alma Kanani (FSD).



KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCLAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and reconmmendation on a
proposed Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan for Thailand.
2.    The Government's commitment to the stabilization program is beginning to bear
fruit. The exchange rate is stabilizing, interest rates are gradually coming down and
market-led capitalization of financial institutions is taking place. This stability, however,
has not yet stimulated economic recovery. The economy is in recession and the highly
leveraged corporate sector is mired in balance sheet losses.
3.    The proposed adjustment operation is part of the Bank's contribution to the $17.2
billion pledge made at Tokyo by the international community in response to Thailand's
economic and financial crisis. The Bank's adjustment operations began with the Finance
Companies Restructuring Loan ($350 million) approved by the Board in December 1997.
This loan supported the orderly resolution of troubled finance companies and helped
strengthen supervision and regulatory framework for the remainder. Together with the
International Monetary Fund's (IMF) policy framework for commercial banks, the loan
committed the Government to establishing resilient financial institutions strong enough to
prevent similar crises in the future. The Government's current reform efforts, which the
proposed loan supports, aim to restore growth by deepening structural reform in the
financial sector and facilitating corporate revival. Reviving the corporate sector will
require removing impediments to restructuring, balancing creditor and debtor interests in
bankruptcy and foreclosure to create incentives for informal workouts, expediting
adoption of international standards for corporate governance, and consolidating reform of
public enterprises, including privatization.
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. THE STATUS OF THE ECONOMIC CRisIs
4.    Since July 1997, the Government has taken tough fiscal and monetary measures to
consolidate macroeconomic stability, and structural reforms-particularly in the financial
sector.
5.    Monetary policy has aimed to curtail the expansion of domestic credit to help
stabilize the exchange rate and maintain the stability of the payments system. Through
the Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF), the Bank of Thailand (BOT) has
had to provide B 300 billion [6 percent of gross domestic product (GDP)] in liquidity



-2 -
support to weak commercial banks and open finance companies to keep the system afloat.
BOT has mopped up excess liquidity from the large banks, but at a high interest cost. In
addition, these banks are reluctant to lend in an uncertain environment. As a result,
private credit expansion has slowed down to under 5 percent a year, and has contributed
to the liquidity crunch faced by many companies.
6.    The program has brought signs of incipient stability. Since January 1998, the
baht-dollar exchange rate has appreciated to around 40 from a low of 53, and daily
volatility has declined. The market responded favorably when the authorities decided to
unify the onshore and offshore exchange markets by lifting the exchange and capital
controls imposed in mid-1997. Meanwhile the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) index
partially recovered in the first quarter of 1998, but fell back to a low of 314 in early June.
7.    Domestic interest rates rose sharply following the float of the baht, the increase in
country risk and the tight credit and monetary program that followed. The repo rate rose
to the 20-25 percent range compared to 10-15 percent before the crisis, but is now
moderating. Deposit rates did not increase by as much because the rise in the short-term
money market rate was perceived to be temporary. Large banks had little incentive to
increase rates since most of the money was coming their way from consumers who were
shifting deposits out of the weaker banks.
8.    There has been modest inflationary pressure despite the steep depreciation, due to
falling domestic demand, reduced wages and the small share of consumer goods in total
imports. While the baht has depreciated 40 percent since June 1997, the consumer price
index (CPI) has increased more slowly from 4.4 percent in June to 10.1 percent in April
1998.
9.    Untfortunately these improvements have come at the cost of driving the economy
into a recession. Private consumption has been dramatically curtailed and retail sales
have plummeted. Some adjustment in private investment was necessary following the
excesses aLssociated with the investment boom, especially in the property sector.
However, the financial crisis has driven the baht so low and interest rates so high that
even manufacturing firms are now curtailing their activities. The index of manufacturing
production has fallen precipitously in the last two quarters. People are losing their jobs;
their real irncomes are declining.
10.   Unemployment has risen to nearly 6-7 percent. Retrenchment is particularly acute
in the financial sector where up to 80,000 workers have been laid off, and in the
construction industry, where the collapse of the real estate markets has sharply contracted
the number of jobs. This labor market burden is likely to fall mainly on young, rural
workers and on unskilled construction workers. The projected slump in GDP growth
suggests that overall job creation would drop significantly, making it harder to absorb
400,000 fresh graduates. Total unemployment could rise to 2 million or higher in 1998.



-3 -
11.    The current account balance has undergone a faster-than-expected adjustment
due to the slowdown in economic activity. The current account has recorded a surplus of
$2.2 billion in the second half of 1997 (compared to a deficit in 1996), but the rapid
adjustment has come mostly from a collapse of imports (-17.3 percent in US dollar terms)
rather than a recovery of exports (only 7.7 percent in US dollar terms, see Box 1).
Box 1: EXPORT PERFORMANCE
Data released by the Bank of Thailand show that calendar 1997 was not a good year for exports.
In the first half of the year, the monthly average export growth was only 1 percent in US dollar terms. In
the second half, monthly average exports rose to 7.1 percent. This coincided with exchange rate
adjustments that started after the Baht was floated in July. The underlying structure of exports shows that
labor-intensive exports (garments, footwear, toys, etc.) continued to decline despite the exchange rate
adjustment while technology-intensive products (computer parts, electrical appliances, integrated circuits
etc.) performed much better. In 1998 export data for the first three months shows a mixed picture. Export
growth was negative 7.9 percent in January, positive 3.2 percent in February, and negative 3.5 percent in
March.
Export growth, though improving, still remains substantially below Thailand's outstanding
performance up to 1995. One reason for this is the reduction in intraregional trade including the slow
recovery of the Japanese economy. In addition, there may also be a volume versus value effect. As other
economies in the region increase exports of competing products, unit values may be on the decline,
offsetting the volume effect of the exchange rate correction.
12.    The Government has taken several tough measures in the financial sector (see Box
2). Following the decision to close down 56 finance companies, impressive progress has
been made in the sale of assets. The prudential and regulatory framework for the
remaining financial institutions is being strengthened. Tougher loan classification
standards have been adopted and provisioning rules are being tightened. The program for
strengthening supervision is being finalized. BOT has recently intervened in several weak
commercial banks and finance companies, removing managers and directors, wiping out
existing shareholders and converting FIDF claims into equity. The market-led
recapitalization has begun and foreign investors are concluding transactions with several
commercial banks.
13.    However, much remains to be done to complete the restructuring of financial
institutions. The institutional design and operating rules for the resolution of closed
finance companies is at a critical stage and the market looks to a transparent and rapid
sale of assets estimated at B 900 billion. The remaining financial institutions need to be
strengthened to reduce their dependence on liquidity support from the FIDF. Direct
intervention by BOT in some open finance compamies and the smaller commercial banks
underscores the weak asset base of many financial institutions. These uncertainties
continue to fuel depositors' flight to quality, exacerbating liquidity problems.



Box 2: LIST OF FINANCIAL SECTOR ACTIONS TAKEN SINCE DECEMBER 1997
1. Resolution of Closed Finance Companies
* Classification by the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) of assets of closed finance
companies completed in February 1998 and creditors of each company provided with "statement of
affairs."' Details on loan portfolios will be provided to qualified bidders during the auction process.
* Forms of payments required from bidders defined by FRA in February 1998.
* Final decision by creditors of the 40 finance companies, whether to choose the note exchange program
or to participate in the FRA auction process, taken in March 1998.
* Appointment of key Asset Management Company (AMC) staff at an advanced stage.
* Plans for adequate recapitalization of financing for AMC and timetable for the disbursement to AMC
being inplemented
* The operating rules and guidelines for AMC partially completed by end-March.
* Rules, guidelines and procedures for the Radhanasin Bank for bidding for high-value assets completed
by end- March.
* Sales of finance company movable assets (cars, computers, works of art, etc.) begun in late February.
2. Handling Weakest Institutions:
* FIDF/BOT has intervened in 4 commercial banks and 7 fnance companies. Managers and directors
were rernoved, existing shareholders wiped out and FIDF claims were converted into equity.
3. Recapitalization Process:
* Stricter loan classification and provisioning rules implemented, end-December 1997.
* Memoranda of understanding (MOUs) signed by BOT with 11 commercial banks in order to achieve
recapitalization plan by March 1998.
* MOUs signed with 16 finance companies to achieve recapitalization plan by March 1998.
* New loan classification and provisioning rules (in line with best intemational practices) issued,
March 31, 1998.
4. Assessment of Financial Institutions:
* Terms of reference (TOR) for diagnostic review of finance company drafted in January 1998
* Diagnostic review test in one finance company undertaken in February 1998
* Program and schedule for diagnostic reviews of 24 finance companies completed.
5. Licensing:
* Circular issued by BOT in December 1997 requesting specific information to conduct a more credible
and accurate assessment of the "fit and proper" condition of new executives and directors of FCs.
6. The Supervisory Regime:
* Investigation Commission for BOT set up by the Government in December 1997, to investigate how
BOT has managed foreign currency reserves, granted its liquidity support and supervised banks and
finance companies. The Commission will decide whether supervision will remain with BOT.
14.    Loan performance and bank balance sheets are unlikely to improve significantly
as long as the highly leveraged Thai corporations (average debt equity ratios of over 3)
remain distressed (nearly a third of the corporations are unable to meet interest expenses).
Poor investment decisions are undoubtedly the primary cause of corporate difficulties but
the steep exchange rate depreciation since July 1997, high interest rates and the current
credit crunch have further weakened corporate balance sheets. The projected shrinkage in
aggregate demand associated with the decline of 4 to 5.5 percent of GDP in 1998 has



-5-
clouded the prospects for many firms. Continued corporate fragility is likely to increase
nonperforming loans, impede recovery of the financial sector and could well prolong the
recession.
B. MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS
15.   The short-term economic outlook remains precarious. Real GDP is expected to
shrink by 4 to 5.5 percent during 1998. The Thai authorities, the IMF and Thai research
institutes predict that the economy will bottom out at end- 1998 and recovery will begin in
1999. However, this depends crucially on whether confidence returns.
16.   Economic contraction and real depreciation of the exchange rate will result in a
large surplus in the current account. The major brunt of adjustment will be borne by
imports, but exports (textiles, garments and electrical products) are expected to pick up.
The current account for 1998 is expected to register a surplus of 6.9 percent of GDP.
Prospects for the capital account are mixed. Regional pessimism and downgrading of
sovereign risk would lower the rollover rate, as would the exercise of put option attached
to bonds and loans and the unwinding of forward and swap obligations. However, foreign
investment in financial institutions is picking up and would offset these factors.
17.   Thailand's economic prospects are intrinsically linked to those of the whole East-
Asian region. Intraregional trade comprised some 40 percent of Thailand's trade prior to
the crisis and recovery would be smoother if the regional economy recovers. If Japan's
now anemic recovery gathers momentum (say 2.0 percent in 1999), Thailand's recovery
prospects would brighten; even so, exports to the United States, Europe and Latin
America would have to increase, and more so should the region's economies continue to
falter. The US and European economies continue to be robust, and since Thailand has a
small market share, the potential for growth is large.
18.   Even under this relatively conservative but positive scenario, Thailand would
need substantial capital to build reserves lost during 1997. Reserves fell by $11.7 billion
in 1997, and are projected to increase by $1 billion in 1998. Thailand's gross financing
requirement is projected to be almost $20 billion in 1998. Disbursements from the $17.2
billion financing package and additional financing such as $1 billion cofinancing by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and $600 million cofinancing from the Export-Import
Bank of Japan, and sovereign bond issues will provide $6.4 billion. The current account
is expected to register a surplus of $8.5 billion, while the rest of the financing
requirement will be met by net foreign direct investment, and net portfolio flows, net
other private capital. For 1998, Thailand will maintain reserves at about $28 billion
equivalent to 6.7 months of merchandise imports.
3. THE PROGRAM FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY
19.   The strategy for economic recovery, designed with multilateral assistance, has
three broad elements. The first, building on the faster-than-expected adjustment in the



- 6 -
current account, consists of a less contractionary fiscal policy to avert collapse of
aggregate demand. The second, designed in close coordination with the Bank and ADB,
protects the vulnerable during the crisis. The third, supported by the Bank, IMF, ADB
and the Government of Japan, addresses the short- and medium-term problems of the
financial sector and Thai corporations and lies at the heart of the recovery program.
A. A LESS CONTRACTIONARY FIscAL POLICY
20.   A key issue for Thailand's recovery program is the stance of fiscal policy, in
particular, the extent to which automatic stabilizers should be allowed to take their
course. During the third review of the IMF's Stand-By Arrangement, the authorities
concluded that the fiscal outlook had deteriorated as a result of sharp decline in the
revenue base and the impact on expenditures of the Baht depreciation. Several factors
needed to be taken into account in developing an appropriate fiscal stance:
* External accounts have adjusted rapidly, and the current account balance for 1997/98
was revised from a deficit of 2 percent of GDP to a surplus of 6.9 percent of GDP. This
turnaround in the external balance implies a much larger adjustment in the private
savings/investment balance than anticipated. Thus, there is more room for
countercyclical fiscal policy to minimize the economic and social impact of the
downturn.
. Indeed, fiscal tightening may be counterproductive, since it would deepen the
recession, worsen corporations' ability to service debt and exacerbate the crisis in the
financial sector. On the other hand, fiscal policy needs to take into account the large
fiscal costs of financial sector restructuring that have not yet been estimated.
* Taking these factors into account, the authorities decided to take some additional
measures to limit the public sector consolidated deficit to about 3 percent of GDP in
1997/9'3. At this level of deficit, the underlying fiscal stance is noncontractionary as
compared to the previous year. The expenditure stance indicates a tightening as
compared to 1996/97, but the revenue stance is loosening, and the net effect leaves the
overall fiscal stance unchanged.
* In the coming months, the authorities will review the fiscal stance in light of changes in
econormic conditions. Any further deepening of the recession may require stronger
countercyclical measures but that decision will be informed by the cost of financial
restructuring, which will become clear as the FRA sales proceed.
B. PROTECTING THE POOR
21.   Thailand's rapid economic growth in the recent past reduced the incidence of
poverty to 14 percent but the crisis has increased the vulnerability of the poor. When
incomes were rising rapidly, the poor, located mostly in rural areas, had developed formal
and informal channels of support such as government programs plus remittances from
family members employed in Bangkok and other urban centers. These supports are now



-7 -
threatened by the steep reduction in public expenditures, the projected recession with its
associated decline in income, and rising unemployment. The incidence of poverty is
likely to increase.
22.   The less well-off are also directly affected by the crisis. The deepening of the
recession is leading to increased layoffs and reduced incomes. The Government has three
main initiatives in response to the challenges of rising unemployment and increased
hardship for the poor. One is to increase its own capacity to systematically analyze the
evidence of poverty so it can more accurately monitor and target remedial measures. The
Bank is assisting the Government's efforts through a two-year program to strengthen
poverty analysis and institutional design. The second initiative seeks finds from
multilateral sources to maintain public expenditures that support the poor. ADB's fast-
disbursing Social Sector Loan ($500 million) bolsters government expenditure in health
(maternal and child health care), education (scholarship programs, teacher training) and
social security for laid-off workers. The third initiative consists of direct interventions to
support poverty programs that had to be curtailed because of the crisis. The Bank's Social
Investment Project ($400 million), being presented to the Board concurrently with this
operation, is part of this effort. The project has two channels: Channel I (approximately
$220 million) will identify government investment programs and increase the productive
capacity of the poor (village roads, small irrigation, public health, rural occupational
training, AIDS care, school renovation, etc.). Channel II is a fund that, by working
closely with local communities, supports small employment-generation programs (Annex
1 provides detail on interventions to strengthen the social safety net).
C. STRUCTURAL REFORM
The Financial Sector
23.   In view  of the financial sector's continued fragility, the Bank, in close
coordination with the Fund, has expanded its program to include support for restructuring
the financial sector, strengthening supervision, upgrading the legal and regulatory
framework and improving market discipline.
Financial Sector Restructuring
24.   Financial institutions need a healthy balance sheet and a sound capital base to
resume lending to the corporate sector. Increased liquidity would also help to bring down
interest rates, which would reduce production costs and restore viability to Thai
corporations. The restructuring program builds upon the policy framework supported by
the previous Bank operation; it has three main components: to complete finance
companies resolution, to restructure remaining financial institutions, and to develop a
strategy for the future provision of financial services in Thailand.
25.   Orderly Resolution of the 56 Closed Finance Companies. There has been
substantial progress in the resolution process. The Financial Sector Restructuring
Authority (FRA) is responsible for overseeing the orderly liquidation of the 56 finance



- 8 -
companies and its work is proceeding on track. FRA has (a) classified core assets
according to type, size and quality and the information is ready for release to qualified
bidders; (b) finalized preparations to sell core assets; and (c) launched the core assets
sales process in late April by announcing the first portfolio tranche auction. Auctions of
noncore assets (vehicles, artwork, etc.) of the 56 companies began in February (see
Annex 2 for further details including a description of FRA auction principles and
procedures). FRA aims to sell all core financial assets by December 31, 1998.
26.   The Asset Management Company (AMC) is an important component of the
resolution process. It will acquire impaired assets auctioned by FRA for which no
acceptable private sector bid is received; manage, restructure, and collect on these assets;
and eventually resell them. AMC is required to maximize asset values and enhance
market confidence; therefore, it must be adequately funded and well managed. The
proposed loan supports actions to accelerate AMC's progress. First, it supports an
increase iin AMC's authorized capital, from the current B 1 billion to B 10 billion. The
Government has prepared and announced plans for adequate funding for AMC with a
timetable for disbursement, and first payment by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in
February this year. Second, the loan supports the development of AMC's internal polices
and procedures; bidding procedures consistent with AMC's role as bidder of last resort,
and agreeable to FRA; and an appropriate Management Information System (MIS) for
asset management and disposition. By August 31, 1998, AMC's operational plan and
MIS will be reviewed and endorsed by external experts selected by MOF.
27.   As part of the resolution process, the Government has also created the Radhanasin
Bank (RAB) a state-owned commercial bank expected to bid for the highest-quality
assets. RAB will have a market-oriented role in the auction process, as defined in its rules
and procedures for asset valuation and bidding. RAB is seeking a foreign strategic
partner, which will be necessary to instill market discipline, ensure good governance, and
bring in the extra capital necessary to participate in the FRA auctions with a view to
strengthening the banking system.
28.   Riestructuring and Recapitalization of Other Financial Institutions. Thai
banks face massive recapitalization needs because past credit policies were irresponsible
and the recently introduced loan classification and provisioning rules are much more
strict. BOT has already taken over four critically undercapitalized banks (Bangkok Bank
of Commerce, First Bangkok City Bank, Siam City Bank and Bangkok Metropolitan
Bank), written down existing shareholders' capital, and converted part of the FIDF
liquidity support to new capital. The Government (via FIDF) does not intend to hold
these banks for long and is seeking private sector-led solutions, including privatization
and liquidation. BOT has also intervened in seven finance companies.
29.   BOT is committed to a tough policy of recapitalization of financial institutions. A
new set of loan classification and provisioning rules, in line with the best international
practices, was issued on March 31, 1998. New Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs)
will be signed with banks and finance companies by August 15, 1998; umder these new
MOUs, recapitalization will be phased in to comply with the new classification and



-9 -
provisioning set of rules at the latest by 2000. In parallel, BOT will conduct enhanced
onsite examinations in all nonintervened domestic commercial banks with expert
assistance.
30.   The authorities expect that the increased transparency of financial institutions will
attract new investors, both domestic and foreign. Since the beginning of the year, several
institutions have been able to raise capital, although it is too early to judge whether
market-driven recapitalization will be sufficient. Therefore, MOF may consider an
accelerated recapitalization scheme for some of the nonintervened banks, based on the
principles of no bailout of the existing shareholders and accelerated provisioning of bad
loans. Government support may include either parallel investments with the private sector
or a government guarantee to new investors to cover further unexpected losses on
existing loans, or both. A similar strategy will be developed to support the
recapitalization (and consolidation) of the finance company sector.
31.   A Strategy for the Future of Financial Services in Thailand. MOF is selecting
the elements of a strategy for the future of the Thai financial sector. What will be the role
of commercial banks (restricted banks vs. universal banks), finance companies (compared
to banks), and specialized financial institutions? How can debt and equity markets in the
financial system be enhanced? How will the roles of securities companies and banks
differ (securities trading, fund management, investment banking, etc.)? Should the
Government support financial conglomerates? How should relationships between lending
institutions and insurance companies be defined (in terms of ownership and provision of
financial products)? The findings of this study will shape the next phase of financial
sector reform.
Strengthening Supervision
32.   In Thailand, financial institutions are currently supervised by different agencies:
BOT supervises commercial banks, finance companies and credit fonciers; MOF oversees
state-owned specialized financial institutions; the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) supervises securities companies; the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) oversees
insurance companies; and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) supervises agricultural
cooperative institutions. Fair competition among different financial institutions requires
harmonized prudential regulations to promote the soundness of the sector.
33.   A Comprehensive Supervision Framework. The Government, with the Bank's
assistance, intends to review its supervisory system with the aim of developing a
comprehensive framework for the supervision of financial institutions. In working out
this strategy, the authorities will compare options such as: (a) market discipline versus
detailed supervision/regulation models, (b) a single supervisory authority versus several
specialized supervisory authorities (for deposit taking institutions, security firms,
insurance companies, investment and pension funds etc.); (c) how to develop consistent
prudential regulations for all financial institutions to create a level playing field; and (d)
which are the best legal and regulatory grounds to consolidate supervision of financial



- 10-
groups. They will also review where the supervisory authorities should be located: MOF,
BOT or independent agency(ies). A comprehensive supervision framework will require
amendments to legal provisions and prudential regulations, which will be carried out in
1998 with assistance from the World Bank and IMF. By December 31, 1998, MOF will
have developed a comprehensive framework for supervision of financial institutions.
34.   Strengthen  the  Supervision  Capacity  of the  Supervisory  Agencies.
Supervisory agencies must be able to get a fast and accurate assessment of financial
institutions; i.e., calculate meaningful capital adequacy ratios by applying strict loan
classification and provisioning rules. Regardless of where supervision functions are
located it is urgent that the existing supervisory capacity is strengthened. In particular,
BOT and MOF must develop their capacity to use supervisory powers (by conducting
adequate offsite and onsite examinations) and enforce prudential rules. BOT has already
adopted a time-bound program to develop its institutional capacity to supervise banks and
finance companies. By July 31, 1998, MOF will conduct an assessment of the supervision
capacity of BOT's and MOF's capacity to supervise Specialized Financial Institutions
(SFIs). Based on this assessment, MOF will develop an Institutional Development Plan
for strengthening supervision capacity of SFIs by September 30, 1998.
Incr easing Market Discipline
35.   Corporate Governance. To prevent financial institutions from taking excessive
risks and accumulating nonperforming assets, it is critical that market discipline is
strengthened through improved corporate governance and the application of stricter
accounting and auditing standards and disclosure requirements. For this purpose, BOT
and MOF will conduct a review of current accounting, auditing and disclosures
requirements for financial institutions and propose amendments in these areas by
September 30, 1998. New specific rules on accounting, external auditing, financial
disclosure for banks, finance companies and SFIs will be proposed by December 31,
1998.
36.   Clealr Exit Rules. To address the moral hazard issue that has undermined the
financial sector discipline, a clear exit policy will be defined for financial institutions,
backed up by bankruptcy provisions. The Government will make clear to managers that
in the event: of capital insolvency, institutions carrying out high-risk operations will be
allowed to fail and shareholders will bear the financial consequences of their strategy. To
be credible, such a policy must to be grounded in Prompt Corrective Actions procedures
to ensure shareholders that further supervisory forbearance will not occur. Overall
credibility will also depend on a legal framework adequate for smoothly liquidating failed
financial institutions. Jointly the IMF and the Bank will provide assistance ito develop an
appropriate legal framework.
37.   An Explicit and Restricted Deposit Protection Scheme. The Government is
committed to a transition: from the general blanket guarantee given in August 1997 to
avoid a systemic crisis to a more restricted deposit protection scheme. To ensure a



- 11 -
smooth transition, a partial deposit protection scheme, planned with assistance from the
Bank and the IMF, will be implemented.
Revival of the Corporate Sector
Difflculties in the Corporate Sector
38.   Thailand's Corporate Sector is in Crisis. Burdened with excess capacity and a
large debt, many corporations are unable to meet their debt service payments and are
defaulting on both domestic and foreign loans. At the end of the third quarter of 1997, the
cash flow of some 32 percent of nonfinancial firms listed on the Stock Exchange of
Thailand (SET) was insufficient to meet interest payments. While debt servicing
difficulties are widespread across the corporate sector, they seem particularly severe in
real estate, building and retail, and in the manufacturing sector among construction
materials and petrochemicals firms. If anything, the financial position of the corporate
sector has worsened since end-September as a result of the deepening recession, exposure
to foreign exchange losses, and continuing high interest rates. For example, many of the
50 largest firms (ranked by market cap) listed on the SET were in severe financial distress
at end-1997, and some had debt/equity ratio over 9.
39.   The depreciation of the Baht has hurt balance sheets and income statements of the
corporate nonfinancial sector. The Thai corporate sector has large debt obligations
denominated in foreign exchange (about $49 billion at end-1997 or 33 percent of GDP),
much of it unhedged. The direct external obligations of the nonfinancial private sector
amount to some $21.5 billion (some 15 percent of GDP). Almost 75 percent of this
external debt is held in the form of loans, originates from Japan (42 percent), and is
concentrated among large corporations (and multinational companies and joint ventures)
in   manufacturing-particularly  automotive   and   energy-real  estate,  and
telecommunications. In addition, Thai corporations have borrowed heavily from Bangkok
International Banking Facility (BIBF) banks in foreign exchange. Total outstanding bank
credit to the nonfinancial private sector at end-1997 amounted to some B 5.5 trillion, of
which some B 1.3 trillion (about 25 percent, or 18 percent of GDP) are denominated in
foreign currency. By economic sector, about 52 percent of this lending was concentrated
in manufacturing, followed by trade and commerce.
40.   Both cost and availability of funds constrain the corporate sector in Thailand. As
described above, interest rates have risen sharply since the onset of the crisis.
Corporations in good credit standing, including exporters, report increased collateral
requirements, severe cuts in maturities, and decline in supplier credits; even the large
firms seem affected. For example, the average quick ratios and inventories of the largest
50 listed firms have declined in 1997, because companies delay payments and reduce
inventories to increase liquidity.
41.   The Roots of the Current Problems. While the financial crisis has exacerbated
the economic downturn in Thailand, capacity utilization was already declining in 1996
and the first half of 1997, suggesting that the roots of the current problems are long-



- 12-
standing. Export performance has been erratic since 1995. In the first six months of 1997,
manufactured exports in baht declined by 2.9 percent compared to the last half of 1996,
with 14 of the leading 20 manufactured exports experiencing a decline. The reasons for
this decline are related at least in part to inadequacies in skills, slow upgrading of
technology and infrastructure bottlenecks.
42.   The problems faced by the corporate sector result from misguided investment, and
how it was financed. Excessive and unproductive investment, particularly, in real estate,
and to expand capacity in goods and services destined primarily for the domestic market,
reduced corporate profitability and increased vulnerability to cyclical conditions.
Corporations invested in risky ventures wvith inflated project costs and optimistic revenue
projections. A symptom of this overexpansion is that in many SET sectors, growth in
assets ouistripped sales and profit growth; for example, in the property sector assets grew
by 115 percent during 1993-96 but profits declined by 69 percent. Similarly, in the paper
and pulp sector, assets expanded by 126 percent during this period but profits turned into
losses. Somewhat blinded by the positive productivity shock of the 1980s and early
1990s, market discipline was weak because of lack of due diligence among domestic and
foreign lenders, and poor disclosure and corporate governance. At the end of 1996,
Thailand had one of the largest capital-output ratios among middle-income countries.
43.   On the financing side, despite the increased activity in the SET during the 1990s
until the onset of the crisis, much of the investment was financed through debt,
denominated in Baht, and foreign currencies. The average debt/equity ratios for
nonfinancial firms listed on the SET increased from 145 percent at end-1994 to 279
percent at end-September 1997. Factors that contributed to excessive borrowing, in
particular foreign and short-term borrowing, are the macroeconomic policy mix (fixed
exchange rate combined with tight monetary policy), cyclical conditions in industrial
countries, and the domestic institutional framework (tax advantages that encouraged
borrowing through the BIBF, restrictions on foreign ownership, the desire of large
shareholders to maintain control, and the absence of a domestic market for long-term
debt).
A Strategy For Revival of the Corporate Sector
44.   Restoring health to the corporate sector will require long-term and short-term
measures plus improving the incentives for prudent decision-making among the creditors,
owners and managers who comprise the corporate culture in Thailand. The structural
reform measures now being implemented are aimed to accomplish this.
45.   In the short term, the corporate sector's systemic debt servicing problems suggest
that corporate restructuring will be the heart of recovery efforts, including efforts to
promote voluntary workouts and readiness to push nonviable corporations toward court-
supervised reorganization or bankruptcy. Government actions to alleviate liquidity
constraints are described in Box 3. Other key reform areas with short- and medium-term
elements include: further efforts to restructure the financial sector (presented above) to



- 13 -
reduce the liquidity constraints faced by corporations,judicial and legal reform, primarily
bankruptcy and legal reform to facilitate corporate restructuring; improvements in
corporate governance and disclosure to improve investor confidence, and privatization.
Box 3: EXPORT RECOVERY AND THE CREDIT CRUNCH
Many Thai corporations, including exporters, report being constrained by the credit crunch.
Exporters are experiencing credit problems such as cuts in maturities and insufficient credit facilities. Some
exporters report that credit lines are held constant in local currency terms creating a significant real credit
reduction if they rely on imnported inputs. And even exporters who do not rely on imported inputs, will be
unable to increase exports without credit expansion. Exporters also report that domestic inputs sources are
less reliable because suppliers without adequate credit cannot maintain production.
Exporters' constraints will be difficult to correct since they are caused primarily by changes in the
patterns of credit availability (in turn resulting from the restructuring of fnancial intermediaries) and by
banks' unwillingness to extend credit in the face of generalized economic uncertainty. While overall
liquidity is tight, to maintain high interest rates to stabilize the exchange rate, it is not the primary cause for
the recent decline in credit growth.
Liquidity is now highly skewed in favor of large Thai and foreign banks, while finance companies
and small commercial banks are either suspended or face liquidity constraints. Hence, commercial bank
clients face reduced credit lines and cannot easily find new banks in current conditions.
Banks with adequate liquidity are reluctant to increase lending because the crisis has sharply
increased credit risk as more corporations move into financial distress. Firms that comprised a significant
proportion of Thailand's export capacity were also serving the domestic market, and are now suffering a
severe downturn in demand or they may have already defaulted on their debts. Second, banks are changing
their asset composition to benefit from the high interbank and repo rates by lending to the FIDF. Similarly,
they are increasing liquid assets because of declining market confidence (including lower credit ratings)
and against the possibility that foreign short-termn credit lines will not be renewed. Third, banks are
improving their capital position to meet new capital adequacy, loan classification, and provisioning
standards.
However there are measures that can ease the liquidity crunch and some of these have already
been implemented. First, the Government is using the tax system to inject some liquidity into the corporate
sector. It has changed tax regulations regarding foreign exchange losses. The tax authorities could consider
other measures including ways to accelerate VAT refunds without compromising antifraud controls.
The authorities have facilitated loans to creditworthy exporters. For example, they have reduced
the risk weight of preshipment L/C export credits, and other non-L/C credits guaranteed by foreign banks,
and increased the refnancing ratio for packing credits. The authorities have also negotiated large foreign
credit lines and domestic credit lines for EXIM Bank from ADB, JEXIM and other bilaterals. Exporters,
however, report that EXIM bank processes credit requests slowly and procedures are complex. Finally, the
authorities are reviewing BIBF regulations, including reducing the minimum BIBF loan amount from $2
million to $0.5 million and allowing BIBF banks to buy export bills from Thai residents and guarantee
export credits.
The authorities are implementing measures with broader objectives that will help alleviate
liquidity pressures on banks and corporations. They intend to phase in the recapitalization portion of the
new loan classification and provisioning rules, and will negotiate an MOU to this end with banks and
finance companies. Because most export capacity is in frms with severe debt problems, the accelerating
informal and formal corporate workouts is critical for banks to increase lending to exporters.



- 1.4 -
Corporate Restructuring
46.   Restructuring has begun slowly. Some corporations appear to have made
significant progress in restructuring their directforeign debt, which consists of bank loans
rather than bonds, easing the coordination problem among foreign creditors.
47.   Progress with domestic debt has been much slower. Large and small, secured and
unsecured, creditors have different interests and little history or experience in corporate
restructuring. To help resolve these coordination problems, MOF has created a working
group, including creditors, corporations and public officials, to identify corporate
candidates for debt restructuring, and facilitate restructuring efforts. In addition, the
authorities, assisted by Bank staff, will organize a seminar on international experience
and best ]practice on corporate restructuring. Some of these experiences illustrate how
government can reduce coordination problems (e.g., Mexico UCABE program).
48.   Thai corporations' ability to implement voluntary restructuring is limited by legal/
regulatory constraints and domestic liquidity. As confidence improves, foreign investors
will be more willing to increase their investments in Thailand, but legal and regulatory
restrictions on foreign purchases of Thai assets, both real estate and operating assets, may
become binding. However, despite political and social concerns, foreign purchases are
being allowed on a case-by-case basis, and we expect the liberalization process to be
widened.
49.   Tax  Impediments and  Distortions. Current tax  laws discourage debt
rescheduling, cash-free asset transfers or acquiring shares through debt and equity
restructuring. Also, the tax regime impedes securitization industry development in
Thailand; it is almost nonexistent. The authorities are reviewing the tax regime to
eliminate these impediments, in particular:
Promoting Debt Restructuring. Currently, a creditor cannot deduct discharged debt
but forgiven debt is considered to be taxable income for the debtor. MOF will review
the tax regulations in 1998 to promote debt restructuring in selected cases so that
corporations that do not need it or are simply not viable do not benefit from this tax
treatment. In particular, the Ministry will change the tax treatment of debt relief for
both debtors and creditors in the context of restructuring a corporation in financial
distress.
Promoting Mergers. Currently, asset transfers and noncash acquisitions of shares
during corporate reorganizations and mergers are considered taxable events. To
alleviate these impediments a draft regulation to allow deferral of taxes on cash-free
asset transfers, share acquisitions and mergers will be submitted to MOF this year.
* Promoting Securitization. The Government will review the tax regulations in 1998
and eliminate any tax disadvantages to the securitization business in setting up
special-purpose vehicles.



- 15 -
50.    In the longer term, the Government will also review the tax treatment of debt
versus equity, and other incentives to excessive borrowing, including foreign borrowing.
In particular, the Government will consider limiting the ability to deduct interest expenses
from corporate income taxes. One option being considered is to develop a "thin
capitalization" rule, which would phase out interest expense deductions on debt above a
specified threshold, e.g., a debt/equity ratio of 200 percent. This measure must consider
the different characteristics of businesses (e.g., cyclicality) and their ability to service
debt.
Reform of Insolvency and Foreclosure
51.    Thailand has lacked an adequate legal framework for corporate bankruptcies and
for enterprise reorganization and workout. Collateral foreclosure is impeded by lengthy
procedures that hamper creditors' ability to foreclose on mortgages against defaulting
corporate mortgagors. Trials of such cases typically take three years. These impediments
threaten the ongoing sale of closed finance company assets under the auspices of the
Financial Restructuring Authority. The Government recognizes that this discourages
potential creditors from returning to Thailand to assist in the economic recovery and so it
is initiating a comprehensive reform program (see Box 4).
Box 4: PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
Once enacted, the proposed amendments will, among other things:
* protect creditors who provide funding to companies in financial distress, regardless of when the debt was
incurred, thereby encouraging new financing to insolvent debtors attempting to reorganize informally;
* repeal the requirement that foreign-denominated debt must be converted into Thai Baht for all purposes
in reorganization proceedings;
* require the court at the outset of a reorganization to determine whether reasonable likelihood exists of
creditors obtaining more through reorganization than a bankruptcy;
* require voting on reorganization plans by classes of creditors;
. provide explicit rules to confirm a reorganization plan by the court;
*provide more comprehensive rules for executory contracts and leases in both reorganization and
bankruptcy proceedings; and
* unify reorganization and bankruptcy rules so that a failed corporate reorganization will result
automatically in bankruptcy proceedings.
52.    Enterprise Reorganization. Significant progress was made in early April 1998
when the Bankruptcy Act B.E.2483 (1940) was amended to provide a conducive
legislative regime for corporate reorganizations. The Bankruptcy Act still requires
various refinements to remove remaining impediments to formal and informal corporate
workouts. The Cabinet has already approved further revisions to the amended Bankruptcy
Act to facilitate corporate bankruptcies and liquidations. By July 31, 1998, the
Government will have submitted these amendments to Parliament for enactment.



- 16-
53.  In fact, improving the legislative framework is just the beginning because there is
also a strong cultural bias against bankruptcies and a dearth of experienced bankruptcy
practitioners and judges. The Government is moving to remedy this. In January 1998, it
established a Company Reorganization Office within the Legal Execution Departmnent of
the Ministry of Justice to oversee the work of official receivers in formal corporate
reorganization proceedings. By October 31, 1998, the Government, with technical
assistance from the Bank, will have designed and begun to implement a program of
capacity-lbuilding within this Office. The Government has initiated a program to retrain
judges and official receivers in business and economics at the Judicial Training Institute
(JTI) of the Ministry of Justice; and it has committed to an action plan that will be
adopted by October 31, 1998 to improve institutional procedures for bankruptcy.
54.   Foreclosing on Collateral. Thailand still lacks a modem regime for creating
secured interests in personal property and for noncourt authority for creditor enforcement.
For the purpose of expediting the process of foreclosure on collateral, by July 31, 1998,
the Government will have: (a) submitted to Parliament, for enactment, amendments to the
Civil and Commercial Procedures (CCP); and (b) prepared adjustments to the existing
procedural frameworks. By October 31, 1998, the Government will have endeavored to
have these amendments approved by Parliament. Also, the existing provisions on pledges
and mortgages in Book III of the Civil and Commercial Code (CCC) need to be amended
so that creditors' rights are more certain. Based on a diagnostic analysis of Book III of the
CCC and the requirements of a registry system of secured interests, by December 31,
1998, the Government will propose steps for: (a) an amended, comprehensive, legislative
regime for secured lending; and (b) an automated, centralized, registry system for secured
interests.
55.  Imaproving Enforcement of Commercial Contracts and Legislation. Judicial
procedures of corporate and commercial cases and the process of enforcing judicial
decisions once made are too slow and inefficient. To improve enforcement of commercial
contracts and legislation, the Government will: (a) undertake a thorough assessment of
the obstacles to the development of a more efficient system of judicial procedures for the
resolution of commercial disputes, including the enforcement of judgments; and (b)
recommend legislative proposals and institutional changes.
Financial Accountability and Corporate Governance
56.   Poor corporate governance has shielded banks, finance companies, and
corporations from market discipline. Ineffective boards of directors, weak internal
control, umreliable financial reporting and poor audits led to risky irnvestments with
unhedged foreign currency exposure and all of these contributed to the current crisis.
57.   The authorities have begun to implement policies to improve corporate
governance, particularly for listed companies. The SET-issued regulations in January
1998 require that all companies applying for a listing to have an audit committee for the
Boards olf Directors. Companies already listed will be required to set up audit committees



- 17-
by December 31, 1999. Guidelines have been issued on the functions and responsibilities
of listed company directors. The Government is now rationalizing the institutional
framework for setting accounting standards, encouraging private professionals to take the
lead to revamp the accounting profession, improve the quality of financial information
and strengthen enforcement and accountability.
Setting Accounting Standards
58.   The authorities recognize that the current institutional framework for setting
accounting standards and regulations is cumbersome and outdated. Too many
government agencies regulate, supervise, and define reporting requirements; these include
the Ministry of Commerce (Commercial Registration division), Revenue Department,
Bank of Thailand, Stock Exchange of Thailand, and Securities and Exchange
Commission. To streamline this, the Government has adopted a time-bound program to
establish an independent organization responsible for setting accounting standards
consistent with international best practices, by December 31, 1998.
59.   By September 30, 1998, the Government will ensure that the Institute of Certified
Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) takes the lead in conducting a
comprehensive review of standard-setting and the regulation framework of the accounting
and auditing profession; it will then propose amendments to applicable laws and
regulations by December 31, 1998.
Strengthening ICAA T
60.  ICAAT is weak and does not lead in developing and promulgating auditing
standards or ensuring compliance. The Government has announced that, consistent with
international best practice, ICAAT will become an independent self-regulatory
professional body by December 31, 1998. The Government will ensure that by
December 31, 1998, ICAAT will take the lead in strengthening the accounting profession
and the regulatory and auditing practices. Its mandate will include certification of
accountants, assurance of quality and enforcement of the code of ethics for the profession.
Improving the Quality and Reliability of Financial Information
61.   Recently, the Government has announced further improvements to ensure that
financial statements of listed companies, nonlisted public companies, banks, and other
financial institutions with assets in excess of B 1 billion will be prepared and audited
according to international practices beginning in 1999. To accomplish this, accounting
standards must be revised for financial statement disclosures (i.e., loans and deposits,
pension information, risks and uncertainties, and capital requirements), asset
classification, marketable securities, and loss recognition.
62.   By September 30, 1998, ICAAT, SET and SEC will prepare a plan to improve the
quality of audit reports for listed and nonlisted public companies, banks and financial
institutions. ICAAT will issue revised accounting standards for 1998 for financial



- 18-
disclosures and loss recognition; it will also develop new standards for debt restructuring
and assets impairment, and phase out the burdensome statutory and mandatory audit
requirements for about 300,000 partnerships and inactive limited companies.
Accountability and Enforcement
63.   The Government is committed to improving enforcement of accounting standards
and accountability of corporate officers for their financial disclosures. To that end, the
following targets are set:
*  By December 31, 1998, SET and SEC will recommend changes to protect minority
shareholder rights after reviewing duties of corporate officers and directors.
*  By September 30, 1998, the Government will review the roles of SET, SEC, MOC,
BOT and MOF under terms of reference (TORs) with the Bank, in enforcement of
laws and regulations related to public companies to ensure sanction against breach of
duty by corporate officers.
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
64.   Reviving the private sector and increasing the effectiveness of public investment
requires leveraging private management and resources. Thailand has about 60 state-
owned. enterprises (SOEs) ranging across the economy-industry, agriculture, power-
even a national pawnshop and cold storage facility. These enterprises undertake about
half of the public investments. They generally record profits on sales and since these
profits finance only three-quarters of their investment, their borrowing adds to the stock
of sovereign debt. To gain economic efficiency, increase capital revenues and widen the
future tax base, the Government plans to cede many of these activities to the private
sector. Divestitures will be complemented by a regulatory framework so that sectors such
as energy, transport and communications can provide competitive services. Creating a
coherent legal framework-including the Corporatization Law-is an important step to
speed up privatization. The Government will also reform those SOEs that will remain in
public ownership to enhance their performance.
Principles for Public Enterprise Reform
65.   Only those public activities that are best left to the private sector will be targeted
for divestiture. Raising capital revenues is important, but secondary to gaining economic
efficiency. The public sector will withdraw from commercial activities such as
warehouses, cold storage, and even some of the large public utilities.
66.   In pursuing this program, the Government will:
establish clear regulatory mechanisms to guide asset sales; select efficient solutions
over quick cash generation;



-19-
*  rely, where possible, on competition to discipline corporate behavior in the newly
privatized sectors; rely on regulation only in areas where competition (e.g., capital
markets) cannot be fully effective;
*  conduct the process of divestiture and private sector participation in a transparent and
competitive manner; and
*  clearly separate the authority and responsibility of policy, regulatory and operational
functions to avoid conflict of interests and unnecessary interference.
67.   A few SOEs will be deemed of strategic importance and will remain in the public
domain. For these the authorities will separate the three functions of line ministries that
presently overlap: those of policymaker, regulator and operator of the public enterprise.
At the end of the reform process, responsibility will be clearly delineated; the ministry
will make policy, the state enterprise will operate autonomously and an independent
authority will regulate.
Reform Program
68.   The Government is implementing  the following  key  steps toward  a
comprehensive privatization program.
69.   The Government will streamline the institutional framework for privatization.
Currently, the responsibility for privatization, SOE reform and private participation in
infrastructure services is fragmented among the Comptroller General's Department
(CGD), Fiscal Policy Office, and National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB). The Government is establishing a Department of State Enterprises within
MOF to support the State Enterprise Policy Commission and to oversee the privatization
program. The staff will have technical skills and seniority for effective decision-making.
70.   Privatizing individual SOEs that have not been corporatized leads to delays
because it requires complex case-by-case approvals by Parliament. The Cabinet has
approved the draft Corporatization Law to enable SOEs to convert into corporatized
companies. The law will permit corporatization of SOEs so that these may be wholly or
partly divested to private owners, and also includes measures to set up effective
regulatory oversight. By July 31, 1998, the Government will submit Corporatization Law
to Parliament.
71.   A Master Plan for State Enterprise Reform will set out the Government's
medium-term strategy for privatization and SOE restructuring. It will state the
commitment to privatization, the priorities for divestiture of key enterprises, and public
concession agreements in those enterprises [including Thai Airways, Barnchak,
telecommunications, railways, water and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT)] and lay out the divestiture strategy. By August 31, the Department will submit
to the cabinet the Master Plan for the privatization strategy and SOE restructuring over
the next two years. The Master Plan will:



- 20 -
*  state objectives, organizational arrangements, privatization strategy and the future
role of the State;
*  specify timetables and sequence for corporatization and divestiture of key SOEs
(including energy, telecommunications, water, EGAT);
*  outline choice of the divestiture strategy (liquidation, full or partial privatization
through joint ventures, private placements or public offers) linked to sector
objectives;
*  estalblish regulatory framework for transport, water, energy, and telecommunications;
and
*  improve monitoring of state enterprises remaining in public ownership.
72.    To lend credibility to the privatization program, the authorities propose to divest
government holdings on a fast-track program. The progress on this is reported in Box 5.
Box 5: RECENT ACTIONS ON PRIVATIZATION
* ESSO: the Cabinet has approved the sale of the Government's 12.5 percent share and is now discussing
valuation of these shares.
* Electricity Generating Company (EGCO): the Govermnent has issued a request for cost and technical
proposals for its 15 percent share. It has received 14 responses, from which it has qualified 12. By
April 8, due diligence will begin on the selected 4-6. Transaction is expected to be closed by June 30.
* The Textile Company: the Cabinet has decided to liquidate it.
* The Glass Company: the Government is discussing a joint venture with a potential investor who would
like to retain 2-3 years' monopoly privileges currently planned for the state-owned glass company.
* The Battery Company: the Cabinet has decided to contribute its assets to a joint venture that will be
owned 30 percent by the Government and 70 percent by a private investor.
* The Canning Company: the Cabinet has decided to liquidate it.
* The Cold Storage Company: the Cabinet has decided to liquidate it and look into the value of the real
estate.
* The Plywood Company: the Cabinet has decided to sell it.
4. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A. THE BANK
73.    The Thailand Country Assistance Strategy of the Bank (CAS) is being presented
to the Board concurrently with this operation. In addition to supporting the Government's
diligent implementation of the macroeconomic program, the Bank's strategy will focus
on the following.



- 21 -
74.   Renewing  Competitiveness.  The  Government  must  foster  renewed
competitiveness in the private sector because it is the key to returning to high growth.
Private savings must be channeled into efficient investment, capital markets must be
developed, and new options for savings, such as funded pension programs, must be
created. This requires a sound and stabilized financial sector, and increased government
capacity to set the rules for the market where it serves the country's economic interests. It
also requires a restructured corporate sector operating under a modern legal framework
and financial accounting system to improve market discipline. Thailand must improve the
quality of its workforce so that it can produce higher value, more technologically
sophisticated exports; it must also remove export infrastructure bottlenecks and provide
an effective framework for corporate restructuring.
75.   Improving Governance. Thailand must ensure that its public sector supports-
not distorts-development. It needs to strengthen macroeconomic management, improve
public financial management and administration, strengthen the legal framework to
facilitate business revival, and create an efficient public production apparatus.
76.   Sharing Growth and Ensuring Quality of Life. Thailand must ensure that
economic benefits of development are shared among all segments of society, especially
the poor and the vulnerable. Finally, sustainable economic recovery requires diligent
attention to protect the environment to ensure present and future quality of life for all
citizens. This requires better public expenditure allocations and environmental
management.
77.   The Government of Thailand is committed to this agenda and has been taking
actions toward major political, bureaucratic, legal, and institutional reforms. But moving
from a fragile stability to sustained economic recovery requires adequate external finance
to support the country while it undertakes reforms during a period when it is unable to
attract private capital. Thailand has therefore requested a program of substantial resource
transfers, and of strategic policy, institutional and legal advice based on the Bank's
international experience.
78.   A base lending program in the range of $2.9 billion over the three fiscal years
FY98-00. This level of financing will stimulate capital inflows to help the country restore
sustains economic growth. In addition, partial credit guarantees of around $500 million
would enable selected public sector enterprises to mobilize foreign investment for
sectoral programs to foster economic recovery and improve prospects for eventual
privatization. Lending would comprise: capacity-building operations to strengthen
institutions that implement economic, financial and sectoral reforms; structural
adjustment lending to revitalize the financial sector, improve the macroeconomic
framework and strengthen sectoral performance by increasing competitiveness and
restructuring industry; public sector reform loans buttressed by policy and institutional
reforms and reinforced by reforming public administration and civil service to improve
governance; and investment projects to ensure that economic benefits are shared among



- 22 -
all segments of society, especially the poor and vulnerable; and[ to protect the
envirornent to ensure present and future citizens a better quality of life.
79.   Nonlending services would comprise two to three formal analytical reports per
year, inf:ormal policy notes, a program of international knowledge exchange, and seminar
and workshop series. The Bank's role as a knowledge institution would be to provide
access to international best practice.
B. IFC
80.   The International Finance Corporation (IFC) seeks to work closely with the Bank
for ways to contribute to the Bank's program for financial sector reforms and
restructuring of Thai industries for long-term competitiveness. In past discussions, the
Thai Government has expressed appreciation for IFC's investment and advisory activities
in Thailand. In recent years, IFC's investment activities have focused mainly on
infrastructure, petrochemicals and capital markets. IFC has played a critical role in
developing Thailand's petrochemicals industry by arranging nearly $1 billion dollars in
financing for six petrochemical projects. In social infrastructure, IFC approved a
pioneering project in financing a private hospital in Bangkok in FY93, and is pursuing
additional opportunities in this area. Private investors are interested in IFC support in
other social infrastructure projects such as private technical schools and universities.
IFC's cufrent priority is to play a role in the financial restructuring process in which it has
an interest.
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF
81.   On August 20 1997, the IMF's Executive Board approved a 34-month Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) for Thailand for an amount equivalent to SDR 2,900 million (505
percent of quota). SDR 1,200 million (209.1 percent of quota) was disbursed upon Board
approvad. Access under the SBA exceeds normal limits considering Thailand's
exceptionally large balance of payments needs, and it is heavily frontloaded to ensure that
the external financing essential to restore confidence is available as early as possible. In
May 1998, the IMF completed the third review of the program and to date has extended
$2.8 billion of the total committed funds under the SBA.
82.   The Bank has been working closely with IMF in Thailand. Since the onset of the
financial crisis, the Bank and Fund have jointly assisted the Governnent to design the
comprehensive financial sector restructuring program that is currently being
implemented. IMF has paid special attention to issues related to commercial banks, while
the Bank has focused on the resolution framework for finance companies and on
strengthening the supervision and regulatory framework for the entire system. As the
reform program is widened, cooperation between the two institutions continues and
includes corporate restructuring and reform of the legal framework and corporate
governance.



- 23 -
D. COOPERATION WITH ADB
83.   The Asian Development Bank (ADB) pledged $1.2 billion at the August 1997
Tokyo Pledge meeting on Thailand. This amount represents disbursements from ADB
over the period 1997-99. One-half of the disbursements would be from ongoing projects
and other project loans that are expected to be approved by ADB over the same period.
The other half would be disbursements from two proposed program loans that are being
proposed-the Capital Markets Development Program Loan and the Social Sector
Program Loan. These program loans are new and represent additionally over the average
$250-300 million that the ADB extends to Thailand annually on a commitment basis.
Disbursements are projected to average $150-200 million per year from 1997 to 1999,
excluding the two proposed program loans.
5. THE PROPOSED LOAN
84.   The proposed loan is part of a two-year program of structural adjustment of the
economy supported by four single-tranche balance of payments support loans. The first
loan in the series, the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL) approved by the
Board in December 1997, supported measures toward the resolution of the suspended
finance companies and committed the Government to comprehensive reform of the
financial sector over the next two years. The proposed loan, while further deepening the
restructuring of the financial sector, supports measures to strengthen the corporate sector.
It paves the way for two more adjustment loans that will continue to track reform of the
financial and the corporate sectors but with a sharper focus on strengthening the
competitive foundations of the economy.
85.   The proposed adjustment lending program is a flexible response to the Thai crisis.
It allows a closer tracking of the evolving crisis to commit the Government to remedial
measures, while remaining focused on the needed fundamental restructuring of the
economy. The program is being coordinated with IMF, ADB and bilateral lenders. It is
consistent with the objectives of the CAS.
86.   The Government has taken a number of actions in fulfillment of the loan
conditions in the areas of the macroeconomic framework, corporate restructuring,
financial sector, insolvency regime and secured lending, corporate governance and
financial disclosure, and privatization. The specific actions are listed in the Letter of
Development Policy (Schedule I) and the Policy Matrix (Schedule II).
A. LOAN SIZE AND FEATURES
87.   Loan Size. A single-tranche loan of $400 million is proposed to be made
available upon loan effectiveness, anticipated for July 1998. The Closing Date of the loan
would be December 31, 1998.



- 24 -
B. CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
88.   Terms and Conditions. At the request of the Government, and consistent with
the country's external debt management policy, the proposed loan, in the amount of $400
million, would be a Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars, with a 15-year maturity,
including a 3-year grace period, at the Bank's standard fixed US Dollar SCL interest rate.
89.  D)isbursement and Procurement. The proposed loan would support the
economiic and financial restructuring program of the Govermment described in the Letter
of Development Policy, except for items specified in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with BOT. Upon effectiveness
and tranche release, the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to
the Banlc, against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds in one tranche into the
Deposit Account. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting
evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. If after deposit is made in the
Deposit Account the proceeds of the loan and any part thereof is used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the borrower to either
(a) return the amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund
the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan.
90.   Accounts and Audit. BOT, on behalf of the Government, will maintain the
accounts for this loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. The accounts and
disbursements under the program will be audited within four months after the close of the
fiscal year.
91.   Monitoring Arrangement. MC)F and BOT will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the restructuring program with the help of the Letter of Development
Policy, through regular reviews, as well as in the context of the preparation and
supervision of other projects. MOF and BOT will prepare a final report on the progress of
the program within six months after the closing date of the loan, and submit the report to
the Bank.
92.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "U" and will not require em environmental
assessment.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
93.   Benefits. The loan will help meet critical foreign exchange needs of the
Government of Thailand to strengthen the capital account. This will boost confidence and
lend stalbility to the exchange rate. The loan supports the ongoing reform of the financial
sector. Orderly resolution of the closed finance companies, restructuring and
capitalization of other financial institutions and strengthening of supervision will make
for healthy bank balance sheets and a sound capital base to resume lending to the



- 25 -
corporate sector. Several of the reform measures supported by the loan will facilitate
corporate restructuring and thus will strengthen the corporate sector to resume economic
growth. Reform of bankruptcy and foreclosure laws and corporate governance, and a
sound strategy for privatization and reform of state enterprises, supported by the loan will
restore confidence and bring investors back to Thailand. The proposed structural reform
will strengthen and will help modernize the business environment in Thailand to support
future growth.
94.   Risks. The greatest risk lies in misreading the current market rebound as a sign of
complete recovery. Although the market is less pessimistic now than it was six months
ago, capital inflows are still small, mainly equity in selected banks and corporations with
proven track record. Creditors, by and large, are still wary. The wrong response to the
market's "wait and see" attitude would be to declare victory and leave unfinished the
reform of financial institutions. This might well start another round of confidence loss. In
particular, slow progress in reforming the legal and institutional framework for
bankruptcy and foreclosure could undermine the imminent sale of assets of the closed
finance companies and would affect market confidence adversely. Another risk lies in
heavy-handed intervention in the ongoing restructuring of financial institutions or
corporations that might crowd out market-led workouts and result in a large fiscal cost.
Among the external risks, further instability due to regional contagion now seems less
likely, although external demand remains anemic because of the slow down in Japan.
Finally, the fragile coalition currently in power, whose economic team enjoys credibility,
might not last long enough to complete the reform agenda. This would lead to another
round of political and economic uncertainty.
95.   Fortunately, recent political and economic developments suggest that the risks
outlined above are small. The Government survived a no-confidence motion in March,
which has dispelled fears of a sudden change. The economic leadership is aware of the
risk of declaring victory prematurely and is managing expectations accordingly. Financial
sector reform remains a top priority and progress is satisfactory. The Government is
avoiding quick-fix remedies and is committed to modernizing the legal and corporate
governance framework for strengthening the overall environment for doing business in
Thailand.



-26 -
6. RECOMMENDATION
96.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstr6m
Washington, D.C.
June 16, 1998
Attachments



- 27 -
THAILAND: KEY PROGRAM INDICATORS
Nominal Exchange Rate (end of                 Ratio of Credit to GDP, 1987-1996
period) and Interbank Interest Rate
(average)                         1.4
60-                                              1.3-
so                                               1.2
40                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.1
40     I  X                    1   .   I   l   l   l   l   l   l   I
301                                              0.9
20.                                              0.8.
0.7-
10.                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.6
0 -  .~           ~                              00    0 0           %  0%  0   %  0
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                       ono  a,o
BOT  _ Exchange Rate (Baht/US$)       Source: IMF
Source: BOT   - Interbank Rate (average)
THAILAND: OVERVIEW OF KEY FINANCIAL SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Figures for banks and finance companies as Commercial  Finance   Specialized Financial   Total
of December 1996, SFIs as of March 1996   Banks    Companies    Intermediaries    (see Note)
Number of Institutions                       29          91            6              4,870
Of which Foreign                          14          0            0               N/A
Total Assets (million Baht)                5,627       1,812         842              9,030
Share of Financial System Assets (%)         62          20            9               100
Total Funds from Households (Deposits)     2,643        661          321             3,948
Share of Financial System Deposits (%)       67          17            8               100
Note: Total includes Credit Foncier, mutual fund management and insurance companies, agricultural and
savings cooperatives (estimated at end-1995), and provident funds
Source: Bank of Thailand.



-28 -
THAILAND: EXTERNAL FINANCING OUTLOOK
(In billions of US dollars)
Actual     Est.  Prog./a    Projected
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Uses
Current Account Balance             -14.4    -3.0      8.5      5.5      2.3
Repayments on LT Debt                -4.3    -6.4    -8.6    -7.1    -7.2
Other Capital Flows                   3.6   -22.1   -18.3       0.0      0.0
Swaps and Forwards                  0.0    -9.8    -8.9       0.0      0.0
Outflow of ST and other capital     0.0   -12.3    -9.4       0.0      0.0
Change in International Reserves     -2.2    11.8    -1.0    -8.0    -6.0
(- = accumulation)
Financing Requirement               -17.3   -19.7   -19.4    -9.6   -10.9
Sources
Foreign Direct Investment             1.6     2.3      2.7      3.0      3.3
Portfolio Investment                  1.1      0.0     0.6      0.7      1.1
Multilateral                          0.3      1.2     1.8      1.6      1.3
IBREI                                0.1     0.5      1.0      1.0      1.0
ADB                                  0.1     0.6      0.6      0.4      0.3
Bilateral                             1.3     6.2      2.9      1.6      1.3
IMF                                   0.0     2.4      0.7      0.5      0.4
Net Other and Unidentified Capital /b  13.0    7.7    10.8      2.2      3.4
/a Projections from the IMF program.
/b These include new rollover of short-term credits, new private flows and rescheduling
of private debt.



-29 -
TABLE 1: THAILAND: MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK, 1996-98
1996                1997                          1998
Revised     First    Second   Estimate    First    Second    Third
Review    Review             Review   Review   Review
Real GDP growth (%)                             5.5        0.6     -0.4      -0.4       0-1  -3 to -3.5 -4 to -5.5
Consumption                                    6.7       0.5       0.1       0.1      -1.1      -5.0     -8.0
Gross fixed investment                         6.0      -13.3    -16.0    -16.0       -6.5     -21.0    -24.0
CPI inflation (end period, %)                   4.8       10.0      7.7       7.7       6.0      10.6     10.0
CPI inflation (period average, %)               5.9        6.0      5.6       5.6      10.0      11.6     10.5
Saving and Investment (% of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                     41.7      35.8      35.0      35.0      34.3      29.1     28.2
Private, including stocks                    31.5      25.3      23.5      23.5      24.7      17.6     16.4
Public                                       10.2       10.5     11.5      11.5       9.6      11.5     11.8
Gross national saving                         33.7      31.8      32.9      32.9      32.5      33.0     35.0
Private, including statistical discrepancy   20.6      21.3      22.2      22.2      21.7      23.0     25.6
Public                                       13.1       10.6     10.7      10.7      10.8      10.0      9.5
Foreign saving                                 7.9       3.9       2.2       2.0       1.8      -3.9     -6.9
Fiscal accounts (percent of GDP) /a
Central government balance                     2.4      -0.9      -1.0      -1.0       1.0      -1.6     -2.4
Revenue and grants                           19.4       17.6     18.1      18.1      16.6      15.8     15.5
Expenditure and net lending                  17.0       18.5     19.1      19.1      15.6      17.4     17.9
Overall public sector balance                  2.7      -1.5      -1.5      -2.1       1.0      -2.0     -3.0
Monetary accounts (end period, I%)
M2A growth                                    12.7        1.5      3.1       2.1       6.8       5.1      9.0
Reserve money growth                          12.0       4.4       4.7       4.7       6.8       6.6      8.5
Balance of payments ($ billions)
Exports, f.o.b.                               54.7      56.4      56.6      56.7      60.9      60.1     57.5
Growth rate (in dollar terms)                -1.9       3.2       3.5       3.8       7.9       6.2      1.4
Growth rate (in volume terms)                -5.1       8.3       6.4       9.2       7.7      10.6      8.8
Imports, c.i.f.                               70.8      64.2      61.5      61.3      64.3      56.8     50.5
Growth rate (in dollar terms)                 0.6      -9.3    -13.1    -13.4         0.2      -7.7    -17.7
Growth rate (in volume terms)                -4.0      -8.4      -9.8    -11.8       -6.2      -5.2    -13.6
Current account balance                      -14.4      -6.4      -3.3      -3.0      -2.5       4.4      8.5
(% of GDP)                                  -7.9      -3.9      -2.2      -2.0      -1.8       3.9      6.9
Capital account balance                       13.9     -17.9    -18.0    -15.8         0.3  -12 to -14 -14 to -16
Medium- and long-term                        11.0       6.5       6.8       6.3       8.5       2-3      4-6
Short-term /b                                 2.9     -24.4    -24.8    -22.1        -8.2  -15 to -16 -18 to -20
Overall balance                                2.2     -24.6    -19.8    -18.6        -2.2  -8 to -10  -6 to -8
Identified financing (net)                     0.0       8.9       5.9       8.0       3.9       5.9      6.4
Gross official reserves (end year)            38.7      23.0      27.0      27.0      24.8     23-25    26-28
(Months of imports)                           6.6       4.3       5.3       5.3       4.6    4.9-5.3   6.2-6.7
(Percent of short-term external debt)        103         75        93      90.1       87   109-118  117-126
Forward position of BOT (end-year) /c         -4.9     -18.0    -18.0    -18.0        -9.0      -9.0     -9.0
External debt (percent of GDP)                 49.9       58.6     59.9      59.9      76.4      76.3     72.5
Total debt (billions of US$)/d                90.5      94.9      91.7      91.8    102.5       85.9     89.7
Public sector                                16.8      27.8      24.9      24.5      35.4      31.7     32.3
Private sector                               73.7      67.1      66.8      67.3      67.1      54.2     57.4
Medium- and long-term 1                     36.2      38.0      38.2      37.4      39.0      33.6     34.5
Short-term                                  37.6      29.1      28.6      29.9     28.1       20.6     22.8
Debtserviceratio_/                            12.3       15.0     15.2      16.2      16.8      18.8     19.5
/a On a fiscal year basis.
lb Including outflows associated with the closing of swap and forward contracts by the Bank of Thailand.
/c Consistent with the elimination of al BOT offshore forward and swap obligations by end-1998.
/d Excludes loans (estimated at around $4 billion at end-1997), proceeds of which were not brought by Thai corporations into
Thailand.
/e Percent of exports of goods and services.
Source: IMF.



- 30 -
TABLE 2: THAILAND: SUMMARY OF PUBLIC SECTOR OPERATIONS, 1994195-1997/98 /a
1994/95     1995196     1996/97                  1997/98
First     Second      Third
Review     Review      Review
(In billions of baht)
Central government
Revenue and grants                                             763         872          866          895         S08        778
Of which: VAT                                                142          ...        145           209         199        195
CIT                                                159           ...       163           III          81        60
Excises                                            154           ...       180           194         160        160
Expenditure and net lending                                    659         765         912           839         891        899
Current expenditure                                           438         483         516           460         497        505
Capital expenditure                                           217         273         380           370         382        382
Net lending /b                                                  4           10          15            9          12         12
Overall balance                                                 104         107         -46           56         -83       -121
Local govermment
Overall balance                                                  3           6            1            2           2          2
Nonfinancial public sector operations
Retained income                                                 132         153         146          133         159        134
Capital expenditure                                             148         149         178          133         181        166
Overall balance                                                 -16          4          -32            0         -22        -32
Net lending to nonfinancial public sector enterprises             10           6           6            2           2          2
Consolidated public sector balance                               101         122         -71           60        -101       -151
Financing                                                       -101        -122          71          -60         101        151
External                                                         17         11          17            27          52         40
Domestic                                                      -117         -133          54          -87          50        III
Banking system /c                                            -122         -145         133          -87          48        117
Other                                                           5           11        -79             0           2         -6
(In percent of fiscal year GDP)
Central government
Revenue anid grants                                            18.8        19.1        18.1         16.6         15.8      15.5
Expenditureandnetlending                                       16.3        16.8        19.1         15.6         17.4      17.9
Current expenditure                                           10.8        10.6        10.8          8.5         9.7       10.0
Capital expenditure                                            5.4         6.0         8.0          6.9         7.4        7.6
Overall balance                                                 2.6         2.3        -1.0          1.0         -1.6      -2.4
Local government
Overall balance                                                 0.1         0.1         0.0          0.0          0.0       0.0
Nonfinancial public sector operations
Retained income                                                 3.3         3.4         3.1          2.5         3.1        2.7
Capital expenditure                                             3.6         3.3         3.7          2.5         3.5        3.3
Overall balance                                                -0.4         0.1        -0.7          0.0         -0.4      -0.6
Consolidated public sector balance Id                            2.5         2.7        -1.5          1.1         -2.0      -3.0
Financing                                                       -2.5        -2.7         1.5         -1.1          2.0       3.0
External                                                        0.4         0.2         0.4          0.5          1.0       0.8
Domestic                                                       -2.9        -2.9         1.1         -1.6          1.0       2.2
Banking system /c                                             -3.0        -3.2         2.8         -1.6         0.9        2.3
Other                                                          0.1         0.2        -1.7          0.0         0.0       -0.1
(In billions of baht, except as indicated)
Memorandum items:
Fiscal year GDP                                               4,055       4,566       4,770        5,378        5,130     5,028
Revenue, treasury accounts basis                               761         850          844          872         785        755
Expenditure, treasury accounts basis le                        643         750          889          802         835        872
Cash balance, treasury accounts basis /e                        118        100          -44           70         -50       -117
Cost of financial sector restructuring (percent of FY GDP) /f                                        1.3          3.0       2.7
Central aovernment debt (Percent of FY GDP)                     4.8         3.8         4.6          5.1          5.4       5.4
/a The fiscal year is October I to September 30. Second and Third reviews include fiscal measures.
/b Excludes B 60 billion in 1997/98 for recapitalization of specialized government institutions (EXIM Bank, Government Housing Bank, Bank of
Agricultural Cooperatives and the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand.)
AD Including, in 1996/97, a drawdown of deposits (amounting to 3 57 billion) to capitalize the Government Pension Fund, which is offset in domestic
nonbank financing.
/d The deficit of state enterprises, and the overall public deficit in 1996/97, has been revised upward by 0.6 percent of GDP. The revision does not result
in the violation of any performance criteria for September 1997.
/e The treasury accounts do not incorporate foreign-financed expenditures.
If Estimate based on the imputed interest cost of servicing total financial assistance operations. (This definition has been expanded to become more
comprehensive.) These costs are not included in the public sector accounts.
Source: IMF.



TABLE 3: THAILAND: MONETARY PROGRAM, 1996-98
1996   1997
Dec     Mar   Jun    Sep    Dec    Jan    Feb              Mar               Jun            Sep           Dec
Actua    Actua  Actual Actual Actual  Actual Actual  Prog.   Actual /d    Prog.  Rev.   Prog.  Rev.  Prog. Rev.
(In billions of baht, end period)
Reserve Money                                  453     462   514    434   474        471    465    480          448      464   468    469   471   505   515
Net foreign assets /a                         991      987   833    804   628       596    578    446          586      433   485    418   474   403   474
Netdomestic assets                           -538    -525  -319   -370  -154    -125   -112          34       -138       31   -17      51    -2   103    40
Net credit to public sector                 -290    -240  -255   -191  -180        -161   -149   -158        -156     -158  -129    -107   -86   -80   -60
Creditto financial institutions               62       18   261    213   319       272    154    450          118      408   170    360   125   368   125
FIDF credit/b                                28      145   311    554   676        722    626    726         619      731   605    736   600   741   600
Indirect instruments                         -5    -164   -90   -380  -397    -492   -517   -315            -548     -362  -481   -416  -521  -412  -522
Other                                        40       38    40      39    40       42      46      40         47       40    47      40    47    40    47
Other items, net                             -310    -304  -326   -393  -293    -235   -118   -259            -100     -219   -59   -203   -42  -185   -25
Memorandum items:
Reserve money growth (percent)               12.0    12.4  29.8    7.4   4.7         2.6    1.7    3.8        -3.2      -9.8  -9.1    8.1   8.7   6.6   8.5
Money multiplier (seasonally adjusted)       10.6    10.4   9.1   10.5  10.5    10.9   10.9   10.4            11.0      10.4  10.5   10.3  10.4  10.4  10.5
M2A (billions of baht)L/c                   4,725    4,721  4,721   4,682  4,825    4,893   4,896   4,860    4,863    4,892  4,938   4,912  5,016  5,118 5,259
Growth rate (percent)                       12.7      7.3   4.6    3.0   2.1        3.6    3.8    2.9         3.0      3.6   4.6    4.9   7.1   5.1   9.0
Velocity (Dec. 1996 = 100, seas. adj.)       100      101   102    103   103        102    102    105         104      106   103    107   103   107   103
Total FIDF Support                             ...     145   311    554   676        722    626    726         706      731   692    736   687   741   687
Credit                                        ...    145   311    554   676        722    626    726          619      731   605    736   600   741   600
Equity                                        ...      0      0       0      0       0       0       0         87        0    87       0    87       0    87
/a Including expected reserve losses, owing to swap and forward transactions of the bank of Thailand, consistent with the balance of payments; at the program exchange rate.
/b Includes credit extended, and not FIDF equity holdings. In February 1998, a debt-equity conversion of B 87 billion occurred; earlier program projections did not incorporate the conversion.
/c M2A consists of currncy in circulation and the deposits of banks and finance companies.
/d For Mach, M2A and its veocity are projectons.
S50es: Do.



TABLE 4: THAiLAND: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND FINANCING NEED, 1996-98
1996            1997                      1998                                     1998
Actual         First      Actual       Second      Revised            First Half                Second Half
Review                    Review                   Second Review    Revised   Second Review   Revised
(in billions of US dollars)
1. Current account balance                      -14.4         -3.3         -3.0           4.4         8.5                2.7       5.6              1.7      2.9
Trade balance                                 -16.1         -4.9         -4.6           3.3         7.1                2.1       4.6              1.2       2.5
Exports, f.o.b.                               54.7         56.6         56.7          60.1        57.5               29.2      27.1             30.9      30.4
Imports, c.i.f                                70.8         61.5         61.3          56.8        50.5               27.1      22.5             29.7      28.0
Services and transfers                          1.S          1.6          1.6           1.1          1.5               0.6        1.0             0.5       0.5
2. Capital account balance                       13.9        -18.0        -15.8         -14.3        -13.6             -11.1       -9.2            -3.2      -4.5
Medium- and long-term capital                  11.0          6.8          6.3           2.4          4.7 /a            0.2        3.1             2.2       1.5 /a
Short-term capital                              0.0         -7.3         -7.3          -8.0         -7.1              -6.0       -5.0            -2.0      -2.1
Other capital /b                                2.9         -6.0         -5.0           0.3         -2.3              -0.1      -2.8              0.4       0.5
Forwards/Swaps                                  0.0        -11.5         -9.8          -8.9         -8.9              -5.2       4.4             -3.7      -4.5
3. Errors and omissions                           2.6          1.6          0.3           0.0         -0.2               0.0       -0.2             0.0       0.0
4. Net balance = 1+2+3                            2.2        -19.8        -18.6          -9.9         -5.3              -8.4       -3.7            -1.5      -1.6
5. Changes in official reserves (increase-)      - .7          1 .8        10.6           4.0         -1.0               4.0       0.0              0.0      -1.0
6. Financing need = -4-5                          0.5          8.0          8.0           5.9          6.4               4.4        3.8             1.5       2.6
7. Available financing = 8 + 9                    0.5          8.0          8.0           5.9         6.4                4.4       3.8              1.5       2.6
8. Existing Financing package                     ...          8.0          8.0           4.3         4.8                2.8       2.8              1.5       2.0
Fund                                            ...         2.4          2.4           0.7          0.7               0.4        0.4             0.3       0.3
Othae/c                                        ...          5.6          5.6           3.6         4.1                2.4        2.4             1.2       1.7
9. Identified new financing /d                    ...          0.0          0.0           1.6          1.6               1.6        1.0             0.0       0.6
(In percent; unless otherwise specified)
Memorandum items:
Current account balance/GDP                     -7.9         -2.2         -2.0           3.9          6.9               2.4        4.5             1.5       2.4
Export growth                                   -1.9          3.5          3.8           6.2          1.4               6.6       -0.8             5.8       3.4
Export volume growth                            -5.1          6.4          9.2          10.6          8.8                ...       ...             ...       ...
Import growth                                    1.8        -13.1        -13.4          -7.7        -17.7             -19.3      -33.0             6.3       0.7
Import volume growth                            -2.9         -9.8        -1 1.8         -5.2        -13.6                ...       ...             ...
Gross official reserves                         38.7         27.0         27.0          23.0         28.0              23.0       27.0            23.0      28.0
(in months of imports)                         6.6           5.3          5.3           4.9          6.7               5.1        7.2             4.9       6.0
(In percent of stock of short-term debt)      103.0         92.6         90.1         108.8        122.5              92.4      108.3           108.8    122.5
/a Includes sovereign bond issues in the third quarter. The proceeds of the bonds are assumed to be deposited with the Bank of Thailand. If the proceeds are deposited with commercial banks, the
corresponding rise in the banks' assets is recorded as outflows in the balance of payments.
/b Consists mostly of unidentified portfolio flows.
/c Consistent with the agreed financing package and assuming that bilateral creditors disburse proportionally with the Fund.
/d Includes export financing facilities arranged by ADB ($1 billion) and the JEXIM ($0.6 billion).
Sowce: IMF.



TABLE 5: THAILAND: SHORT-TERM DEBT BY BORROWER TYPE, 1996-98 /a
(In billions of US dollars at end of period)
1996                   1997                                1998
Dec        Jun      Aug        Oct      Dec         Feb         Dec
Actual     Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual     Prelim. Sec. Rev.   Revised
Private sector             37.7       36.9      34.6      32.0      29.9       28.2      21.1      22.9
Banks/b                    28.9       30.1      28.0      31.3      25.4       24.9      17.9      20.4
Foreign banks             18.5       20.4      18.4      18.5       ...         ...      ...        ...
Thai banks                10.4        9.7       9.6      12.8       ...         ...      ...        ...
Nonbank                     8.8        6.8       6.6       5.2       4.5         3.2      3.2       2.5
Trade credits              3.8        3.9       3.8       4.0       ...         ...      ...
Other                      5.0        2.9       2.8       1.2       ...         ...      ...        ...
Finance companies         ...        2.0        ...       ...      ...         ...      ...        ...
Other                      ...       0.9        ...       ...       ...        ...       ...       ...
Public sector               0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                   37.8       36.9       34.6      32.0     29.9        28.2     21.1       22.9
/a Debt with original maturity of one year and less.
/b Includes offshore Bangkok International Banking Facilities (BIBFs), and the Thai Export-Import Bank's debt that is not
guaranteed by the Government. The latter was previously included in the public sector debt.
Source: MF.



-34 -
TABLE 6: ITAILAND: OUTSTANDING FORWARD AND SWAP OBLIGATIONS, 1996-98
(In billions of US dollars)
1996    1997                            1998
Dec    Dec         Mar                Jun                 Dec
Actual  Actual  Second  Actual  Second  Revised        Second    Revised
Review           Review               Review
Onshore             3.9      9.2      9.1     9.7       9.1     10.2        9.0         9.0
Foreign banks      2.9     6.7       7.0     7.2       7.0      7.4        6.9         6.9
Thaibankts         1.0      2.5      2.1     2.5       2.1      2.8        2.1         2.1
Offshore            1.0      8.8      5.7     6.0       3.8      1.9        0.0         0.0
Hedge funds        0.4      2.5      0.7     0.9       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0
Other              0.6      6.3      5.0     5.1       3.8      1.9        0.0         0.0
Total             4.9    18.0     14.8    15.7      12.9     12.1         9.0        9.0
Source: IMFI.



TABLE 7: THAILAND: INTEREST RATES, 1996-97
(In percent a year, end of period)
1996                                        1997                                                     1998
Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr  May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec    Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr
Bank of Thailand
Bank rate                                     10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5   12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5
FIDF lending (average)                        14.3  14.2  14.5  14.9  14.9  13.1  13.2  16.0  16.8  18.5  16.2  19.2  21.3    19.9  19.7  19.1   18.3
Market-determined
Repurchase /a
One-day                                     12.0  13.5   9.0   9.8   8.4  11.0  17.0  16.5  20.0  20.8   16.3  20.5  24.0   20.5   21.0   19.8   18.0
One-month                                   11.3  13.0  11.5  10.0   9.0  13.1  14.8  13.9  20.3  20.0   16.5   18.5  24.5    22.4  21.8  21.6   18.1
Interbank (ovemight) /b
Lowest (most creditworthy)                  12.5  11.0   8.5   5.8   6.5  10.0  13.5   9.5   19.8  16.3  14.8  14.8  16.0    16.5   15.5   15.0   16.0
Highest (least creditworthy)                15.5  18.0  10.6   9.5   8.5  13.0  21.0  20.0  22.0  29.0  25.5   26.0  29.8    24.5  26.3  23.3   19.0
Interfinance (overnight) /b
Lowest (most creditworthy)                  14.8  12.8  11.3   7.0   7.9   11.4  13.5  20.0   18.0  18.0   11.5  15.5   18.0    16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0
Highest (least creditworthy)                17.8  19.0  19.0  15.6  15.0  23.0  35.0  35.0  30.0  33.0  28.0  31.5  37.5    34.5  26.5   25.0  27.0
Deposit sates
Commercial banks /c
Savings deposits                             5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0                5.0   5.0   5.0    5.0
3-monthstime deposits Id                     9.3   9.3   9.3   9.3   9.1   8.8   8.8  10.8  10.8  10.8  10.8  10.8  10.8    10.8  11.1   11.1   11.1
12-monthstimedeposits/d                      8.9   8.9   8.9   8.9   8.8   8.4   8.4  10.8  10.8  10.8  10.8  10.8  11.5    10.8  11.1   11.1   11.1
Finance companies
3-monthstime promissory notes/d             10.9  11.0  11.0  11.3  11.3  11.8  11.6  14.0  13.3  14.1  13.0  13.0  13.9   13.9  12.9  13.3    ...
Government Savings Bank
Savings deposits Id                          4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9    4.9   4.9   4.9               4.9   4.9   4.9
6-monthstime deposits /d                     9.1   9.1   9.1   9.1   9.1   8.6   8.6   9.1   9.1   9.1   10.5  10.5  10.8    10.9  11.3   11.3    ...
Lending rates
Commercial banks
Minimum lending rate /c/d                   13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1   13.0  12.8  12.8  13.8  13.8  14.3  14.8  14.8  15.3    15.3  15.4   15.4   15.4
Minimumoverdraftrate" c/d                   13.4  13.4  13.4  13.4  13.4  13.4  13.4  14.4  14.4  14.9  15.4  15.4  15.9    15.9  16.0  16.0  16.0
Minimum retailratelcld                      13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  14.3  14.3  14.8  15.3   15.3  15.8    15.8  15.9   15.9   15.9
Finance companies
Minimum loan rate (average)                 13.7  13.6  14.0  14.2  14.2  13.9  13.8  15.3  15.4  16.2  16.3  16.3  17.3    17.4  17.6  17.6    ...
/a Collateralized by govenmment securities.
lb Uncollateralized.
/c As offered by the four largest commercial banks.
Td Midpoint of range.
Source: Bank of Thailand.



- 36 -
TABLE 8: THAILAND: PROGRAM MONITORING, JuLY 31,1997 - MAY 8,1998
Jul-31  Aug-29  Sep-30  Oct-313  Nov-28  Deo-33  Jan-30  Feb-27  Mar-31  Apr-30  May-6   May-7   May-3
(In bakt per US dollar)
Spot exchange rate
Onshore                                     .31.7    34.2    36.4    41.1    40.2    4g.0    52.5    43.2    38.9    38.6    38.7    38.7    38.7
Offshore/la                                  31.9    34.3    35.9    40.6    40.3    46.9          ...      ...      ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
NEER (increase denotes baht appreciation)      83.4    77.6    73.6    65.4    68.6    39.0    54.9    65.9    72.7    73.6    72.5    73.1
Forward exchange rate, one-month /h
Onshore                                      31.9    34.5    36.6    41.3    40.5    48.3    53.0    43.4    39.2    39.0    39.1    39.1    39.1
Offshore /a                                  32.1    35.0    36.2    40.9    40.7    47.3          ...      ...      ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
Swap premium, oine-month (in percent) Ab
Onshore                                       6.0    13.0       7.2     8.3      9.5      8.6    12.0      8.2      9.5    11.6    11.4    12.1    12.3
offshore /a                                   9.6    27.5       8.0    10.2    10.9    10.7        ...      ...      ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
(In billions of US dollaus)
Cufrent accDunt balance, end-month             -0.4    -0.4      0.1      0.7      1.0      1.2      1.2     1.2       ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
Exports (12-month percent change)             7.9      2.2     1 1.5    11.7     0.8      7.8    -7.9       5.4      ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
Net intemnational ieserves                      1.3      0.8     4.6      5.2      6.3      6.6      6.2     7.4      9.2    11.2    11.4    11.3    11.4
Foreign asset                                30.5    25.9    29.6    31.2    26.2    27.0    26.4    26.2    27.6    29.5    30.4    30.3    30.2
Foreign liabilities                           0.0      1.6      4.5      5.1     5.5      7.3      8.1      8.1     9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4
Of which: IMF                                  .       1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      2.4      2.4      2.4     2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
Swaps and forwardls,notastock                 -29.2   -23.6   -23.4   -24.4   -18.3   -18.0   -17.8   -16.3   -15.7   -15.6   -16.3   -16.3   -16:1
Onshore                                     -10.1    -7.9    -8.2   -10.2    -9.4    -9.2    -9.3    -9.1    -9.7   -30.2   -10.5   -10.6   -30.9
Offshore /a                                 -19.1   -15.6   -15.2   -14.2    -8.9    -8.8    -8.5    -7.2            -6    -5.4    -5.8    -5.7    -5.2
Percent
Jul    Aug       Sep     Oct    NOV        Dec      Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr
Extemal debt rolloverrate /c                     ..       ..       ..      91      73       73       63       75       ...      ...      ..       ..       ..
Thai banks (excludingliBEEF)                   ..       ..       ..      63       38       60      58      110       86      III
Nonbanks                                       ..       ..       ..      67       49       33      19       44       66       68
Interet rates
One-day repurchiase                          16.5    20.0    20.8    16.3    20.5    24.0    20.5    21.0    19.8    18.0    17.8    37.8    17.8
Overmight interbank (median)                 13.8    20.9    22.6    16.0    21.5    24.8    21.3    22.1    20.4    17.5    16.0    15.0    36.5
Lowest (most creditworthy)                  9.5    19.8    16.3    lt.0    14.8    16.0    16.5    15.5    15.0    16.0             8.0    11.0    33.0
Hfighest (least creditworthy)              20.0    22.0    29.0    25.5    26.0    29.8    24.5    26.3    23.3    19.0    18.3    18.0    37.8
(in billions of baht)
FIDF support,totsivalue                        423      512      554      591     630      676      fl2      713      706      696     694      693      693
Banks                                          47      128     168      206      227     292      332      320      309      298     295      293      293
Of which: deht-equity swaps                ...     ...      ...      ...      ...      ...     ...      87       87       87       87      87       87
Thirty-three finance companies                  8       16      21       25       25      29       37       39       44       45       46      46       46
Fifty-eight finance companies                368      368      364      360      358     355      354      354      353      353      353     353      353
Balance sheet ofdthe BOT
Reserve money                                469      436      434      444      442     473      471      465      448      456
Net foreign assets /d                         973     778      804      838      665     630      596      578      586      645
Net domestic aswets                          -505    -343    -370    -395    -224    -157    -325    -112   -t238           -189
(SET index)
Stock market index                             666      502      545     447      395      373      495      528     459      432      393      394      386
/a Capital and exclhange restrictions were lifted on January 30, 1998, and the onshore and offshore markets are unified.
/b The forward rare is computer from the swap premiium and the spot (closing) quote. The swap premnium is equivalent to a baht-dollar interes rafte differential.
/c The rollover rate is calculated as (1-(Ioan repayments - new cradits/asnortization due)* 100.
Td At programn exchange rates.
Sourc: Bank of Tbailand and IMF.



- 37 -
TABLE 9: THAILAND: RELATIONS WITH THE WORLD BANK GROUP
(As of May 12, 1998)
(In millions of US dollars)
IBRD         IDA         Total
Total lending
Agriculture/rural development           1,094.6       37.5      1,132.1
Education                                384.3        54.5        438.8
Urban development                        185.9         0.0        185.9
Industry                                  69.5         0.0         69.5
Transportation                          1,129.1        0.0      1,129.1
Telecommunications                       303.6         0.0        303.6
Power and energy                       2,512.6         0.0      2,512.6
Population                                 0.0        33.1         33.1
Public administration                     32.0         0.0         32.0
Structural adjustment                    675.5         0.0        675.5
Financial sector technical assistance     15.0         0.0         15.0
Finance companies restructuring          350.0         0.0        350.0
Economic management implementation        15.0         0.0         15.0
Total /a                             6,767.1       125.1      6,892.2
Commitments for FY 1998                   350.0          0.0       350.0
/a Of which $5,215 million has been disbursed.



- 38 -
TABLE 10: THAILAND: NET CAPITAL FLOWS, 1992-96 /a
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(US$ million)
Net Capiltal Flows                9,652  10,515  12,183  21,921   18,031
Medium and long term             4,263   7,396   4,606   9,332   12,242
Private Sector                 3,972   6,647   4,628   8,140   10,964
Direct investment (equity)    1,548   1,232     813   1,129    1,602
Loans and credit              1,745   1,847   3,161    3,915    8,243
Portfolio and other /b         679   3,568      654   3,096    1,119
Public Sector                    291     749      -22   1,192   1,278
Public enterprises             501     622      192     810      828
Central government            -210      127    -214     382      450
Short-term capital             5,389   3,119   7,577  12,589   5,789
(as % of total)
Net Capilal Flows (as % of total)  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Medium and long term              44.2    70.3    37.8    42.6    67.9
Private Sector                  41.2    63.2    38.0    37.1    60.8
Direct investment (equity)     16.0    11.7     6.7      5.2     8.9
Loans and credit               18.1    17.6    25.9    17.9    45.7
Portfolio and other /b          7.0    33.9     5.4    14.1      6.2
Public Sector                    3.0      7.1    -0.2     5.4      7.1
Public enterprises              5.2     5.9      1.6     3.7     4.6
Central government             -2.2     1.2    -1.8      1.7     2.5
Short-term capital              55.8    29.7    62.2    57.4    32.1
/a These capital flows do not include any movements in monetary capital such as
monetary gold or net balances in IMF accounts.
/b Including debt securities.
Source: IMF.



- 39 -
TABLE 11: THAILAND: RELATIONS WITH THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
(As of April 30, 1998)
(In millions of US dollars)
Total lending
Energy                              1,632.2
Transport and communications        1,214.5
Social infrastructure                569.4
Agriculture and natural resources    409.1
Financial sector                     440.0
Industry and nonfuel minerals         39.0
Total /a                    4,304.3
Commitments for FY 1998                  850.0
/a Of which $2,729.4 million has been disbursed.
Source: Prepared by ADB staff.



- 40 -
TABLE 12: THAILAND: MEDIUM-TERM SCENARIO, 1997-2003
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
Real GDPI growth (percent)             -0.4  -5.0   2.0   4.5   6.0   6.0   6.0
Consumption                            0.1  -8.0   1.2   3.1   5.5   6.8   6.2
Gross fixed investment              -16.0  -24.0   6.5  13.0  12.0   6.5   6.5
CPI inflalion (period average, percent)  5.6  10.5   7.0   5.0   s.0   4.0   4.0
Savings and investment (percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment            35.0  28.2  29.6  32.4  34.2  34.3  34.5
Gross national saving                32.9  35.0  33.8  34.3  34.0  32.8  32.2
Foreign saving                        2.0  -6.9  -4.1  -1.9   01.2   1.6   2.3
Fiscal accounts (percent of GDP) /a
Overall public sector balance        -2.1  -3.0  -1.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Balance of payments ($ billions)
Exports, f.o.b.                       56.7  57.5  61.7  66.7  72.0  77.5  83.3
Imports, c.i.f.                       61.3  50.5  58.0  66.5  75.1  82.9  90.1
Trade balance                        -4.6   7.1   3.7   0.2  -3.0  -5.4  -6.9
Current account balance               -3.0   8.5   5.5   2.6  -0.3  -2.6  -4.1
(percent of GDP)                    -2.0   6.9   4.1   1.9  -0.2  -1.6  -2.3
Capitalaccountbalance/b              -15.6  -13.8  -0.1   2.5   4.6   4.6   4.5
Overall balance                      -18.6  -5.3   5.4   5.1   4.3   2.0   0.4
Gross official reserves (end-year)   27.0  28.0  36.0  41.6  41.6  38.6  36.4
(Months of imports)                  5.3   6.7   7.4   7.5   6.7   5.6   4.8
(Percent of short-term external debt)  90   122   201   280   312   312   320
External debt (percent of GDP)         59.6  72.5  64.4  58.3  49.5  41.0  34.4
Debt service ratio /c                 16.2  19.5  19.2  18.4  19.5  20.1   17.8
Debt service to the Fund
In percent of exports of goods and     0.0   0.2   0.2   0.5   1.7   1.6   0.6
nonfactor services
In percent of total debt service       0.1   0.9   1.0   2.4   8.3   7.7   3.5
/a On a fiscal basis.
/b Including errors and omissions.
/c Percent of exports of goods and services.
Source: IMIF.



- 41 -
TABLE 13: THAILAND: INTEREST COVERAGE RATIOS OF NONFINANCIAL PRIVATE
CORPORATIONS, 1995-97 /a
1995     1996      1997
All nonfinancial corporations /b                    3.7      2.5       1.1
Agribusiness                                     3.6       3.2       2.5
Building and furnishing materials                2.1        1.8      1.2
Chemicals                                        2.8       1.9       0.7
Commerce                                         6.0       7.0       4.8
Communication                                    5.5       3.2       1.4
Electrical products, computer, and electronic parts  4.6   3.1       2.1
Health care services                             3.8       2.3       0.5
Property development                             7.3       4.1       -0.3
Textiles, clothing and footwear                  2.6       0.2       0.4
Other                                            2.7       2.0       1.2
(In percent)
Memorandum items:
Growth in earnings before interest and tax payments
All nonfinancial corporations 2/                  ...     -4.2    -26.9
Growth in interest obligations (in percent)
All nonfinancial corporations 2/                  ...     43.3      67.7
/a Interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of earnings before interest and taxes
(EBIT) to interest obligations.
/b Consisting of 65 corporations, which account for about one-fourth of the nonfinancial
private corporate sector's external debt.
Source: Based on information provided by Stock Exchange of Thailand.



TABLE 14: THAILAND: EXISTING OFFICIAL FINANCING PACKAGE
(In billions of US dollars)
Signing Date   Loan Amount      Original Disbursement         First Review            Second Review          Total    Third Review
Date         Amount      Date         Amount       Date         Amount    Disbursement    Projected
to date      to date
Total financing package /a /b                             17.20                      6.34                      2.97                     0.98         10.29          0.47
IMF                                    20-Aug-97           4.00      25-Aug-97       1.62     11-Dec-97       0.81       9-Mar-98       0.27         2.70          0.14
ADB/c                                  19-Dec-97           1.20      23-Dec-97      0.30      17-Mar-98       0.30            ...        ...          0.60         0.00
IBRDl/d                                12-Dec-97           1.50      29-Dec-97      0.35             ...        ...           ...        ...         0.35          0.42
Bilateral creditors                                       10.50                     4.07                      1.86            ...       0.71          5.93         0.33
Japan /e                               1-Sep-97          4.00       10-Sep-97      1.67       6-Jan-98       0.76     23-Mar-98       0.27          2.70          0.14
Australia                              9-Sep-97           1.00      12-Sep-97      0.40      17-Dec-97       0.20     13-Mar-98       0.08          0.68          0.04
Brunei Darusalam                      16-Nov-97          0.50       4-Mar-98       0.20      4-Mar-98        0.10     25-Mar-98       0.04          0.34          0.02
China                                 29-Oct-97           1.00      10-Nov-97      0.40      17-Dec-97       0.20     13-Mar-98       0.08          0.68          0.04
Korea /f                              11-Oct-97          0.50       22-Oct-97      0.20            ...        ...            ...        ...         0.20          0.00
Hong Kong, China                      21-Sep-97           1.00       8-Oct-97      0.40      17-Dec-97       0.20     13-Mar-98       0.08          0.68          0.04
Indonesia /f                         Not signed          0.50             ...       ...            ...        ...            ...        ...         0.00          0.00
Malaysia                              15-Sep-97           1.00      25-Sep-97      0.40      17-Dec-97       0.20     13-Mar-98       0.08          0.68          0.04
Singapore                              6-Sep-97           1.00      11-Sep-97      0.40     17-Dec-97        0.20     13-Mar-98       0.08          0.68          0.04'
Memorandum items:
Total package after shortfall g                           16.40                      ...            ...        ...            ...        ...          ...           ...
Possible contribution from Canada  Not yet signed         0.50                       ...            ...        ...            ...       ...           ...         0.36
/a The original program assumed disbursements of $14 billion for 1997-98, although final commitments were $17.2 billion.
/b Excludes Canada's possible contribution.
/c The $1.2 billion comprises the financial Markets Reform Program (FMRP) Loan ($300 million) approved in December 1997; a social sector program loan ($500 million to be disbursed in two tranches:
$300 million in March and $200 million in December); and project loans (totaling $400 million), including some existing projects. ADB has arranged $950 million commercial cofinancing of a $50 million
export sector loan.
/d The World Bank approved the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan of $350 million in December 1997.
/e The loan amount is Y 480 billion, equivalent to about $4 billion. Actual disbursements in US dollars may vary with the yen-dollar exchange rate.
/f In light of difficult conditions in these countries, no further drawings are envisaged.
2S From Korea and Indonesia.
Source: IMF.



-43 -                     SCHEDULE I
SCHEDULE 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(English Translation of the Original Document in Thai)
[Date]
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St. N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Subject: Proposed Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
Letter of Development Policy
The economy is showing signs of stability in response to the macroeconomic
framework designed with assistance of the International Monetary Fund. The baht-dollar
exchange rate has appreciated and daily volatility has declined. Domestic interest rates
that rose sharply following the float of the Baht have started to moderate. The inflationary
pressure has been modest and the current account, undergoing a faster-than-expected
adjustment, will record a large surplus in 1998.
To fundamentally achieve financial sector restructuring and recover confidence
for the financial sector in general, we have taken several important measures in the
financial sector. Following the decision to close down 56 finance companies, satisfactory
progress was made toward the sale of assets. The prudential and regulatory framework for
the remaining financial institutions is being strengthened. International loan classification
standards have been adopted and provisioning rules are being tightened. The program for
strengthening supervision is being finalized. The Bank of Thailand has recently
intervened in several weak commercial banks and finance companies, removing managers
and directors, wiping out existing shareholders and converting FIDF claims into equity.
The market-led recapitalization has begun and foreign investors are concluding
transactions with several large commercial banks.
However, the economy is contracting more than previously anticipated due to
continuous regional turmoil and drastic domestic demand drop. Some adjustment in
private investment was necessary following the excesses associated with the investment
boom, especially in the property sector. But devaluation of the Baht and liquidity
shortages have caused firms across a broad spectrum of economic activity to curtail their
activities. Continued corporate fragility will likely increase nonperforming loans, impede
recovery of the financial sector and perhaps prolong the contraction phase.



- 44 -                    SCHEDULE I
Macroeconomic stability and consolidation of financial sector restructuring will
remain top priority in the next phase of structural reform. The stable economic
environment now permits a more flexible fiscal and monetary stance to stimulate
aggregate demand and lower the cost of capital. In corporate restructuring, we are
encouragiing dialogue between creditors and debtors and we are reforning the bankruptcy
and foreclosure regime to provide a range of workout options. We are also improving the
investment climate and promoting market discipline through reliable financial
information and strengthened corporate governance. The enabling environment for
private investment will be further strengthened by our programs for privatization and
public enterprise reform.
While maintaining the pace of structural reform for corporate and economic
recovery, we are committed to cushioning the impact of the crisis on the more vulnerable
segments of the population. With assistance from the World Bank, the OECF (Social
Investment Project, B 21.6 billion) and the Asian Development Bank (Social Sector
Program Loan, B 20 billion), we are strengthening the social safety net by creating
employment, providing training, and easing access to health and education services. We
shall maintain crucial rural development programs and promote community participation
in their design. We are strengthening our capacity to monitor poverty incidence for
improved targeting. The price-based support programs that we have designed include
maintaining subsidized urban bus and rail fares and increasing severance pay to workers
with more than 10 years of work experience.
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Program
We recognize that macroeconomic stability is fundamental to the return of
confidence and corporate recovery. Following the successful completion of IMF's third
review, we are further modifying the macroeconomic framework. Recently the currency
has strengthened and the recession has deepened, creating room for monetary expansion
to meet the economy's liquidity needs, and lower interest rates. Consequently, reserve
money growth for 1998 is now revised upward to about 8.5 percent (compared to 6.6
percent set in March) to be met largely from the improved foreign reserves. As a result
specialized banks can alleviate the credit crunch arising from the commercial banks'
reluctance to lend, and can add to the trade finance facilities provided by the Japan EXIM
Bank ($600 million) and ADB under the cofinancing facility ($1 billion). We shall retain
flexibility in the monetary program design and will tailor it to support economic
recovery.
Fiscal tightening was an appropriate signal to the market of our resolve to bring
down the current account deficit. However, maintaining a tight fiscal stance during
economic contraction and reduced revenue collections will exacerbate the decline in
aggregate demand and may delay economic and corporate recovery. Therefore, we have
decided to revise the targeted 1998 overall public sector balance from minus 2 percent of
GDP to minus 3 percent of GDP. This will create the fiscal room for foreign financing of
social expenditures. We will watch economic developments closely and will retain



-45 -                      SCHEDULE I
flexibility in the fiscal stance to meet the cost of financial restructuring and, if needed, to
stimulate aggregate demand.
Financial Sector Restructuring
The progress made in financial sector reform is encouraging but we recognize that
much remains to be done. The institutional design and operating rules to resolve closed
finance companies are at a critical stage and the market anticipates a transparent and rapid
sale of assets estimated at B 900 billion. The remaining financial institutions need to be
strengthened to reduce their dependence on liquidity support from the Financial
Institutions Development Fund. Recent direct intervention by the Bank of Thailand in
some open finance companies, plus the smaller commercial banks, underscores the weak
asset base of many financial institutions. These uncertainties continue to fuel depositors'
flight to quality, exacerbating liquidity problems. We are committed to taking steps to
address these concerns and to further consolidate reform and rebuild confidence in the
financial sector.
The program for the successful resolution of the closedfinance companies is on
target. The Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) has adopted and begun
implementation of a program to sell the portfolio of core financial assets pertaining to
finance companies taken over by FRA. FRA aims to complete the disposal of all assets
by December 31, 1998. We are now ensuring that the Asset management Company
(AMC) is adequately funded and helps the resolution process to succeed. We have taken
several steps to maximize the value of assets to be sold by the FRA, including: (a)
approving an increase to the authorized capital of AMC; (b) approving internal policies
and procedures; (c) setting up a Management Information System (MIS) asset
management and disposition; and (d) approving bidding methodology and asset valuation
procedures for the resolution of assets pertaining to finance companies taken over by
FRA. The operational plan and MIS will be reviewed and endorsed by external experts
selected by Ministry of Finance by end-August, 1998. This will ensure that the AMC will
efficiently manage, restructure, and collect on assets acquired through the FRA process.
Furthermore, AMC will eventually resell all assets.
We have created the Radhanasin Bank (RAB), a state-owned commercial bank
expected to bid for the highest quality assets. We will ensure that RAB (a) plays a
market-oriented role in the auction process, and (b) bids only for the highest quality
assets. We will ensure that the RAB acquires a strategic foreign partner with a view
toward acquisition of existing Thai bank(s) to strengthen the banking system.
To ensure the safety and soundness of the financial sector, we are taking strict
actions against the weakest financial institutions, and speeding up the recapitalization and
restructuring process of the whole financial industry. BOT is assessing the finance
companies using diagnostic reviews conducted under specific TORs and with assistance
of foreign experts. It is monitoring recapitalization of all financial institutions by
progressively implementing loan classification and provisioning standards in line with



-46 -                      SCHEDULE I
best international practices; carrying out special audits and developing a strategy for the
four intervened banks, and also for the remaining weak institutions, particularly any
finance company unable to recapitalize under the MOUs signed in 1997.
To restructure and strengthen the core financial institutions, the Bank of Thailand
has launched a due diligence program to assess the financial condition of four intervened
banks. We will take the following steps: (a) develop a restructuring and privatization
strategy for the 4 intervened banks bty July 31, 1998; (b) complete all scheduled
diagnostic reviews by December 31, 1998; (c) conduct enhanced onsite examinations in
all nonintervened domestic commercial banks with expert assistance; (d) sign new MOUs
with banks and finance companies by August 15, 1998; under these new MOUs,
recapitalization will be phased in to comply with the new classification and provisioning
rules by thie year 2000, at the latest.
In addition, we intend to develop a strategy for a more sound and efficient
financial sector in Thailand over the next several years. MOF has been assigned the
responsibility for doing this. It will explore efficient ways to provide financial services to
various economic players. In particular, MOF will review the roles of commercial banks,
finance companies, security companies and other specialized financial institutions, and
determine how they will operate in the future. MOF, BOT and SEC will study future
options for the structure of the financial sector and will make recommendations to the
Government by November 30, 1998.
We will develop a comprehensive framework for supervision of all financial
institutions by December 31, 1998. By October 31, 1998 BOT will review the legal and
regulatory framework for supervision of commercial banks and finance companies. Based
on this review, by December 31, 1998, MOF and BOT will present to the cabinet legal
amendments to the Banking Act and the Finance Companies Act. By December 31, 1998,
BOT will begin to revise existing regulations and will issue new prudential rules for
commercial banks and finance companies, including regulations on insider lending and
foreign exchange exposure. By July 31, 1 998, MOF will review the legal and regulatory
framework for supervision of the Specialized Financial Institutions. Based on this review,
by December 31, 1998, MOF will revise existing regulations and issue new ones.
Regardless of where the supervisory functions are located, we will begin to build
up supervision capacity in existing agencies. BOT has adopted a time-bound program to
develop its institutional capacity to supervise commercial banking institutions. By
July 31, 1.998, MOF will assess MOF's/BOT's capacity to supervise Specialized
Financial Institutions; based on this assessment, MOF will develop by September 30,
1998, an Institutional Development Plan to strengthen supervision capacity.
The lack of transparency in financial institutions has undermined the timely
assessment of the weaknesses of financial institutions and risks borne by investors.
Therefore, we will improve transparency by developing accounting, external auditing and
disclosure standards in line with best international practices so that shareholders,



-47 -                      SCHEDULE I
supervisors and market participants will be provided with accurate and meaningful
information on activities carried out and risks borne. By September 30, 1998 a review of
current accounting, auditing and disclosures requirements for financial institutions will be
conducted by MOF and BOT and amendments proposed in these areas. New specific
rules on accounting, external auditing, and financial disclosure for banks, finance
companies and SFIs will be proposed by December 31, 1998.
To promote market discipline once financial markets have stabilized, we will
move away from the blanket guarantee set in August 1997 and toward a limited deposit
protection scheme. By December 31, 1998 we will define the scope of the new deposit
protection and clarify the status of quasi-deposits in the new scheme. We will set up an
institutional framework to manage the scheme and develop an adequate funding
mechanism.
Revival of the Corporate Sector
The corporate sector is now facing the brunt of economic and financial adjustment
to the crisis. Corporate balance sheets are rapidly deteriorating due to falling domestic
demand, high cost of capital, difficulties in accessing credit and lackluster export
performance. This, in turn, is increasing nonperforming loans and retarding financial
sector recovery. Thus corporate recovery is the priority in the next phase of our reform
agenda.
Our strategy for restoring corporate viability requires both long-term and short-
term measures to strengthen the incentives for prudent decisions by creditors, owners and
managers who comprise Thai corporate culture. In the short run, besides ensuring
adequate liquidity especially to exporting firms, corporate restructuring will be at the
heart of recovery. This will include efforts to promote voluntary workouts through
adoption of NPL Exit Procedures and tax incentives, plus a readiness to push nonviable
corporations toward court-supervised reorganization or bankruptcy. Other short- and
medium-term reforms for the corporate sector include: efforts to restructure the financial
sector (discussed above) to reduce the liquidity constraints faced by corporations, judicial
and legal reform, primarily bankruptcy and legal reform to facilitate corporate
restructuring; improvements in corporate governance and disclosure to bolster investor
confidence and privatization.
Corporate restructuring has begun slowly. Some corporations have progressed in
restructuring their direct foreign debt but this is because such debt consists mostly of
bank loans rather than bonds, which eases coordination among foreign creditors. Progress
on restructuring domestic debt has been much slower. Large and small creditors, secured
and unsecured creditors have different interests and lack experience in corporate
restructuring. To remove and/or reduce the impediments and facilitate debt and equity
restructuring, a working group, set up by MOF on May 15, 1998, will look into matters
including identification of corporate candidates for debt restructuring. The measures are
considered to be temporary in nature. The three organizations (Thai Bankers'



-48 -                      SCHEDULE I
Association, the Federation of Thai Industries and the Board of Trade of Thailand) will
also be consulted. In addition, we will offer a seminar (with assistance from the World
Bank) on international experience and best practice in corporate restructuring. We will
then develop our own framework using others' experience, to reduce coordination
problems among debtors and creditors.
Corporations' ability to implement voluntary restructuring is limited by
legal/regulatory constraints and domestic liquidity. As confidence rises, foreign investors
will be mnore willing to increase their investments in Thailand, but legal and regulatory
restrictions on foreign purchases of Thai assets, both real estate and operating assets, may
become binding. However, foreign purchases are being allowed on a case by case basis,
and we expect the liberalization process to be widened.
Currently, our tax laws favor debt over equity, do not promote debt rescheduling,
and discourage cash-free asset transfers, share acquisitions, and mergers as methods of
corporate restructuring. A draft proposal to allow tax deferral on cash free asset transfer,
share acquisitions, and mergers, for the purpose of encouraging mergers and acquisitions
in suppoit of corporate reorganization, will be submitted to MOF for consideration by
July 15, 1998. Also, by September 30, 1998, we will review the Revenue Code to remove
and/or reduce impediments to corporate debt and equity restructuring. We will look into
debt restructuring in selected cases and also encourage mergers and acquisitions in
support of corporate reorganization.
The securitization industry has remained underdeveloped. This has prevented
banks from improving balance sheets, so they can resume lending to the corporate sector.
We are reviewing the tax regime to eliminate any tax disadvantages to the securitization
business iin setting up special-purpose vehicles.
Reform of the Insolvency Regime and Secured Transactions
We recognize that Thailand's legal framework has been unable to handle
corporate bankruptcies and secured lending. The law is inadequate and court procedures
are lengthy and cumbersome. The lack of statutory support for the continuing financing
of companies in financial distress has prevented efficient informal workouts of insolvent
corporations with financial problems vvhich may be temporary. The legal regime for
secured lending is also in urgent need of reform. Collateral foreclosure involves lengthy
procedures, which make it difficult for creditors to foreclose on mortgages against
defaulting corporate mortgagors. The Civil and Commercial Code (CC'C) needs to be
reviewed to secure creditor rights and to expand the range of collaterable assets. We also
need to establish and operate a modern, automated and centralized registry for secured
lending. We recognize that the credibility of the Financial Restructuring Authority
fcreclosure regime is essential to the successful sale of closed finance companies' assets.
Several amendments were passed by the parliament to the Bankruptcy Act B.E.
2483 (1940) (the Bankruptcy Act) in March 1998. We are now addressing some of the
remaining shortcomings to help ensure that any company in financial distress is either



-49 -                      SCHEDULE I
efficiently reorganized or is efficiently liquidated. The Cabinet has already approved
further revisions to the amended Bankruptcy Act to facilitate corporate bankruptcies and
liquidations. By July 31, 1998, we will submit these amendments to the Bankruptcy Act
to the parliament for enactment. Furthermore, by October 31, 1998, we will have: (a)
endeavored to have these amendments approved by Parliament; (b) designed and begun
to implement capacity-building within the Reorganization Office of the Ministry of
Justice; and (c), on the basis of a diagnostic assessment of the requirements to implement
the insolvency law, adopted an action plan which identifies the procedural, institutional
and budgetary elements of an efficient system of corporate insolvencies. We will
continue to provide training for judges and receivers in aspects of corporate bankruptcies
and formal corporate reorganizations and expand training to trustees-in-bankruptcies,
company managers, lawyers, accountants and others.
We are establishing a credible regime for secured lending. Based on an
assessment of delays in the process of foreclosing on collateral, we have adopted a
comprehensive action plan for legislative and institutional changes necessary to
accelerate the process of foreclosing on collateral. By July 31, 1998, we will have: (a)
submitted to Parliament, amendments to the Civil and Commercial Procedures (CCP);
and (b) adjusted the procedural frameworks. By October 31, 1998, we will endeavor to
have CCP amendments approved by Parliament. Based on a diagnostic analysis of Book
III of the Civil and Commercial Code (CCC) and the requirements of a registry system
for secured interests, by December 31, 1998, we will propose steps for: (a) an amended,
comprehensive, legislative regime for secured lending; and (b) an automated, centralized,
registry system for secured interests.
We will endeavor to improve judicial system procedures to settle corporate and
commercial disputes and to enforce court judgments. To that end, we will assess the
obstacles to developing an efficient system and recommend legislative proposals and
institutional changes.
Financial Accountability and Corporate Governance
Poor corporate governance has shielded banks, finance companies, and
corporations from market discipline. Ineffective boards of directors, weak internal
controls and unreliable financial reporting have promoted imprudent business practices.
This led to risky investments, highly leveraged balance sheets and unhedged foreign
currency exposure, which lie at the heart of the current crisis. Recognizing these
shortcomings, we are embarking on a series of measures to improve corporate
governance, particularly for listed companies. SET issued regulations in January 1998
that require all companies applying to be listed to have an audit committee of the Boards
of Directors. Companies already listed will be required to set up an audit committee by
December 31, 1999. Guidelines have been issued on the functions and responsibilities of
directors and the code of best practice of the listed companies. We are now rationalizing
the institutional framework for setting accounting standards, encouraging private



- 50 -                     SCHEDULE I
professionals to upgrade the accounting profession, improve the quality of financial
information, and strengthen enforcement and accountability.
We recognize that the currenit institutional framework for setting accounting
standards and regulations is cumbersome and ineffective. Too many government
agencies regulate, supervise, and define reporting requirements-including the Ministry
of Commerce (Commercial Registration Division), Revenue Department, Bank of
Thailand, Stock Exchange of Thailand, and Securities and Exchange Commission. We
intend to streamline this. We have adopted a time-bound program to establish an
independent organization responsible for setting accounting standards consistent with
international best practices, by Decernber 31, 1998. By September 30, 1998, we will
ensure that the Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT)
takes t]he lead in conducting a cornprehensive review of standard-setting and the
regulation framework of the accounting and auditing profession; it will then propose
amendments to applicable laws and regulations by December 31, 1998.
ICAAT is not fully independent and is not currently the primary private sector
source for developing and promulgating auditing standards and ensuring compliance. We
have adopted a time-bound program to review, by December 31, 1998, the role and
functions of ICAAT to become an, independent self-regulating professional body,
consistent with international best practices. It will certify accountants, assure quality and
enforce the professional code of ethics.
We recognize that the quali& of financial information has been less than
satisfactory, and financial statement disclosures, loss recognition, asset classification,
marketable securities, debt restructuring and impairment of assets, and audit reports, are
not consistent with international best practices. We are committed to upgrading
accounting and auditing standards to, the level of international best practices, and to
revising the laws and regulations so that beginning in 1999, public companies' financial
statements must be prepared and audited according to these standards. We have already
announced that, beginning in 1999, financial statements of listed and nonlisted public
companies (with assets in excess of B 1 billion) will be prepared and audited using these
standards.
In addition, ICAAT, BOT, SET and SEC will, by December 31, 1998, prepare a
plan to improve the quality of audit reports for listed and nonlisted public companies and
banks and financial institutions. We also plan to remove the burdensome statutory audit
reporting requirement for partnerships and inactive limited companies, and to revise the
format for the 1998 financial year. I'CAAT will issue, by December 31, 1998, revised
accounting standards for financial disclosures and loss recognition, and develop new
standards for debt restructuring and assets impairment. By September 30, 1998, MOF and
BOT will conduct a review of current accounting practices and disclosure rules and
requirements for all financial institutions. New rules will be proposed by December 31,
1998.



-51-                       SCHEDULEI
We are committed to enforcing laws and regulations and making corporate
officers and board members of public companies accountable. To that end, we will: (a)
by September 30, 1998, review the roles of SET, SEC, MOC, BOT and MOF in
enforcing laws and regulations for public companies to ensure that there are sanctions
against breach of duty by corporate officers and directors; (b) by December 31, 1998,
ensure that SET and SEC review the duties of corporate officers and directors and that
they recommend changes to protect minority shareholder rights; and (c) by December 31,
1998, review requirements and timing for establishing audit committees of the Board of
Directors of public companies.
Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization
We have begun to implement a privatization program as part of the broader
agenda to reform the state-owned enterprises (SOEs). We believe that reform will be a
catalyst to improve the quality of infrastructure services. This, in turn, will strengthen the
competitive foundations of the economy and help restore international investor
confidence. In pursuing the reform programn, we are guided by the following principles:
*  raising revenue will be an important objective of privatization, but secondary to the
efficiency objectives.
*  asset sales will be guided by clear regulatory mechanisms; efficient solutions will be
preferred over quick generation of cash;
*  where possible, competition will discipline corporate behavior in the newly privatized
sectors; regulation will be relied upon only where competition (e.g., capital markets)
cannot be fully effective;
*  divestiture and private sector participation will be transparent and competitive; and
*  the authority and responsibility for policy, regulatory and operational functions will
be clearly demarcated to avoid conflicts of interest and unnecessary interference.
Those few SOEs deemed of strategic importance will remain in the public
domain; we will separate three functions-policymaker, regulator and operator-that
presently overlap. The reform process will delineate responsibility; the ministry will
make policy, the state enterprise will operate autonomously and an independent
authority will regulate.
We have already launched the divestiture program with Cabinet recently
approving the sale of several commercial state enterprises. These enterprises were
conducting diverse activities such as canning, cold storage, Plywood manufacturing and
textile production. We have decided to substantially reduce state ownership in EGCO,
ESSO and the Battery organization.
The institutionalframework for privatization is being streamlined. Currently,
the responsibility for privatization, state enterprise reform and private participation in
infrastructure services is fragmented among the Comptroller General's Department,



-52-                       SCHEDULE I
Fiscal Policy Office, and NESDB. We are establishing an Office of State Enterprises
within MOF to support the State Enterprise Policy Commission and work with other
agencies in coordinating the country's overall program for privatization and private
sector participation in infrastructure. The staff will have technical skills and seniority
for effective decision-making.
PFrivatization of individual state enterprises that have not been corporatized
requires complex case by case approvals by parliament which leads to delays. By July 31,
1998, we expect to submit the Corporatization Law to Parliament. This law will
constitute umbrella legislation to enable state enterprises to convert to public companies
under Thailand's Civil and Commercial Code. The law includes provisions to transform
state enterprises into corporatized companies. The Cabinet has already approved the draft
Corporatization Law to enable State-Owned Enterprises to convert into corporatized
companies.
We are also working on a Master Plan for State Enterprise Reform to set out the
medium term strategy for privatization. It will spell out our commitment to privatization,
state the priorities for divestiture of, and public concession agreements in, key enterprises
(including Thai Airways, Barnchak, telecommunications, water and EGAT) and lay out
the divestiture strategy. By August 31, 1998, the Department will submit to the Cabinet
for its approval the Master Plan setting out the strategy for privatization and SOE
restructuring over the next two years, which will include:
-  objectives, organizational arrangements, strategy of privatization and the future role
of the state;
-  timetables and sequence for corporatization and divestiture of key state enterprises
(including telecommunications, water and EGAT);
*  choice of the divestiture strategy (liquidation, full or partial privatization through
joint ventures, private placements or public offers) linked to sector objectives;
*  establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework for transport, water, energy,
and telecommunications; and
*  improved monitoring of state enterprises remaining in public ownership.
Signed
Minister of Finance



SCHEDULE 2: THE POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BOARD) CONDITIONS                            LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. MACROECONOMIC AND FISCAL
1. Maintain nacroeconomic stability andfiscal balance
Issue: Macroeconomic stability is fundamental to return of Satisfactory progress made in implementing the revised Government will maintain the macroeconomic programr
confidence and corporate recovery.                macroeconomic program announced on May 19, 1998.   including an adequate reserve position and a prudent
Objectives and Program: Pursue agreed strategies to                                                  monetary policy to consolidate the ongoing stabilization o
ensure economic stability.                                                                           the economy.
2. The Fiscal Program
Issue: Maintaining a fiscal surplus in view of economic                                              Develop a framework for a flexible fiscal stance in view of
contraction  and  reduced  revenue  collections  will                                                the potentially large fiscal costs of financial sector
exacerbate the decline in aggregate demand and may delay                                             workouts and an extended recession.
economic and corporate recovery.
Objective and Program: Implement a less contractionary
fiscal policy to support economic recovery. Create the
fiscal room for foreign financing of social expenditures.                                                                                                      
3. Easing the liquidity crunch of the Thai corporations and increasing competitiveness
Issue : The sharp contraction in credit associated with the Make available credit to exporting firms through bilateral By December 1998, MOF will prepare an action plan for
financial sector crisis has resulted in high interest costs and multilateral sourcing of funds under transparent increasing competitiveness of Thai corporations.
and reduced liquidity for manufacturers. This has reduced eligibility criteria.
capacity utilization and has adversely affected firml
prospects.
Objective and Program : Implement a credit program to
ease the liquidity crunch faced by Thai corporations in a
Itransparent and nondistortionary manner.
rU



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM1|                             BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
A Corporate Restructuring
Issue: Current Tax law favors debt over equity financing; The Ministry of Finance has established a working group 1. A draft proposal to allow tax deferral on cash free asset
does not promote debt rescheduling; and discourages cash- to  provide  advice  on  corporate  debt and  equity transfer, share acquisitions, and mergers, for the purpose
free asset transfers, share acquisitions, and mergers as restructuring.                              of encouraging mergers and acquisitions in support o
methods of corporate restructuring.                                                                  corporate reorganization, will be submitted to the Ministry
Objectives  and  Program:  Regulatory  reforms to                                                    of Finance for consideration by July 15, 1998.
encourage equity financing and to promote corporate                                                  2. By September 30, 1998, the Ministry of Finance will
restructuring  through  debt restructuring  and equity                                               review the Revenue Code in order to remove and/or
restructuring.                                                                                       reduce any impediments to corporate debt and equity
restructuring, including; (a) deductibility of interest
expense, (b) promotion of debt restructuring in selected
cases, and (c) encouragement of mergers and acquisitions
in support of corporate reorganization.
5. Additional Tax Measures
Issue : Securitization industry is virtually nonexistent,                                            In order to promote asset securitization, the Government
which has prevented banks from  improving balance                                                    will eliminate any tax disadvantages to the securitization
sheets, reducing the need for recapitalization and increase                                          business in setting up special purpose vehicles.
lending to the corporate sector.
Objectives and Program : The tax regime governing
securitization industry has to be refofrmed to promote
securitization.
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
1. FINANCE COMPANIES RESOLUTION
1. Progress in the FRA sales process
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize criteria and procedures FRA has adopted and begun implementation of a program FRA will target December 31, 1998, to complete the
for the sale of core assets of the 56 finance companies to sell the portfolio of core financial assets pertaining to disposal of all assets.
taken over (FCT), and carry out the sales.        finance companies taken over by FRA.
Objectives and Program: Implement the sale of assets of
FTCs, and continue showing concrete progress.     j                                                   __
X~~~~~~



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS                            LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Establishment of theAMC
Issue: An adequately funded, well-perforning AMC is an The Government has taken steps to enable AMC to be 1. AMC will manage, restructure, and collect on assets in
important component of the resolution process. The AMC fully operational, including through: (a) approving an an efficient manner.
will need to have the capacity to acquire, manage, increase to the authorized capital of AMC; (b) approving 2. AMCwillresell induecourseallassets.
restructure, collect on the assets, and/or resell the assets to internal policies and procedures; (c) setting-up of a
private sector buyers.                           Management Information  System  (MIS) for asset 3. AMC's operational plan and MIS will be reviewed and
Objectives and Program: Maximize the price of assets management and disposition; and (d) approving bidding endorsed by external experts selected by MOF, by August
sold by the FRA in a way that enhances the confidence of methodology and asset valuation procedures for the 31, 1998.
the domestic and intenational capital markets.  resolution of assets pertaining to finance companies taken
over by FRA.
3. Establishment of the Radhanasin Bank
Issue: The Government has created the Radhanasin Bank                                             In the coming months, the RAB will actively search for
(RAB), a state-owned commercial bank expected to bid                                              and acquire a strategic foreign partner with a view to
for the highest quality assets.                                                                   strengthening the domestic banking system.
bjectives and Program: Ensure that RAB (i) plays a
market-oriented role in the auction process, and (ii) only
bids for the highest quality assets.
2. SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1. Restructure and strengthen the corefinancial institutions
Issue: The BOT must continue to take tough actions The Bank of Thailand has launched a due diligence 1. MOF and BOT will develop a restructuring and
against the weakest financial institutions, and speed up the program in order to assess the financial condition of four privatization strategy for the four intervened banks by
recapitalization and restructuring process of the whole intervened banks.                          July31, 1998.
financial industry.                                                                                2. All scheduled diagnostic reviews will be completed by
Objectives and Program: Assess the financial condition                                             December31, 1998.
of financial institutions through diagnostic reviews                                               3. BOT will conduct enhanced onsite examinations in all
conducted under specific TOR and with foreign expert                                               nonintervened domestic commercial banks with expert
assistance; monitor recapitalization  of all financial                                             assistance.
institutions through the progressive implementation of
loan classification and provisioning standards in line with                                        4. New MOUs will be signed with banks and finance
best international practices; carry out special audits;                                            companies by August 15, 1998; under these new MOUs,    U
develop a strategy for dealing with the four intervened                                            recapitalization will be phased in to comply with the new
banks; develop a strategy for dealing with the remaining                                           classification and provisioning set of rules at the latest by
weak institutions, particularly any finance company that is                                        2000.                                                 a
unable to recapitalize in accordance with the MOUs signed
in 1997.                                          __



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BoARD CONDITIONS                  E -        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Redefine the role offinancialplayers in a modernized Thaifinancial sector
Issue: The authorities must determine a strategy to                                                  MOF/BOT/SEC will carry out a study on options for the
develop a more sound and efficient financial sector in Ifuture structure of the financial sector and will make
Thailand over the next several years.                                                                recommendations to the Government by November 30,
Objectives and Program: MOF must explore ways to                                                     1998.
provide adequate financial services to various economic
players. In particular, it must review the respective role of
commercial banks, finance companies, security companies
and other specialized financial institutions, and determined
how such institutions should be allowed to operate in the
future.
3. Develop a comprehensiveframeworkfor supervision offinancial institution
Issue: The authorities must develop a comprehensive                                                  MOF will develop a comprehensive framework for
framework for supervision of all financial institutions to                                           financial supervision by December 31, 1998.
avoid a piecemeal approach that could result in gaps in the
supervisory process and inconsisteint decisiors regarding
the supervision of different financial functions.
Objectives and Program: The comprehensive framework
will determine the most appropriate supervisory model for
Thailand.
4. Improve legal provisions and regulationsfor supervision
Issue, Objectives  and  Program:  To  develop  a                                                     1. BOT will conduct a review of the legal and regulatory
comprehensive supervision framework, MOF and BOT                                                     framework for supervision of commercial banks and
will develop amendments to the law  and prudential                                                   finance companies by October 31, 1998. Based on this
regulations related to the supervision of commercial                                                 review, by December this year, MOF and BOT will
banks, finance companies and Specialized Financial                                                   present to the Cabinet legal amendments to the Banking
Institutions (SFIs). The legal framework governing                                                   Act and the Finance Companies Act.
bankruptcy and reorganization of distressed financial                                                2. By December 31, 1998, the BOT will begin the process
institutions will also need to be revisited.                                                         of revising existing regulations arsd issue new prudential
regulations for cormnercial banks and finance companies    rjC
including regulations on insider lending and foreign Q
exchange exposure.
3. MOF will review the legal and regulatory framework   b
for supervision of the Specialized Financial Institutions by
July 31, 1998. Based on this review, by December 31,
1998, the MOF will initiate the process of revising 2
existing regulations and issue new ones.



OBJECrTVEs AND PROGRAM                               BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
5. Strengthen the supervision capacity of the supervisory agencies
Issue: Regardless of the location of the supervision The Bank of Thailand has adopted a time-bound program By July 31, 1998, MOF will conduct an assessment of
functions, the MOF and the BOT should start building up to develop its institutional capacity to supervise banks and MOF's/BOT's capacity to supervise Specialized Financial
supervision capacity in existing agencies.        finance companies.                                 Institutions (SFIs). Based on this above assessment, MOF
Objectives and Program: Based on the assessment of                                                   will develop an Institutional Development Plan for
their supervision capacity, the BOT and FPO  must                                                    strengthening supervision capacity of SFIs by September
develop an Institutional Development Plan to strengthen                                              30,1998
this capacity over the medium term.
6. Strengthen market discipline
1) Enhance transparency                                                                              1. By September 30, 1998 a review of current accounting,
Issue: Lack of transparency in financial institutions has                                            auditing  and  disclosures requirements for financial
dramatically undermined the ability of both supervisors                                              institutions will be conducted by MOF and BOT and
and investors to assess in a timely fashion the weaknesses                                           amendments proposed in these areas.
and risks borne by financial institutions.                                                           2. New specific rules on accounting, external auditing, and
Objectives and Program: The authorities will help                                                    financial disclosure for banks, finance companies and SFIs
introduce transparency by developing accounting, external                                            will be proposed by December 31, 1998.
auditing and disclosure standards more in line with best
international practices. Thus, shareholders, supervisors
and market participants would be provided with more
accurate and meaningful information on activities carried
out and risks borne.
2) Implement an explicit deposit protection scheme                                                   MOF and BOT will develop a plan for a deposit protection
Issue: The government must demonstrate its commitment                                                scheme by December 31, 1998.
to move away from the general blanket guarantee set in
August 1997 and towards a more limited deposit
protection scheme once the financial markets stabilize.
Objectives and Program: The government will define
the scope of the new deposit protection and will clarify the
status of quasi-deposits vis-a-vis the new scheme. It will
set up an institutional framework to manage the deposit
protection scheme and an adequate funding mechanism.
ffi        X                                         .   |                        _                              " M~~~~~~~~~~~~~



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                              LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
III. LEGAL REFORM
1. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworks for corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations
Issue: The Corporate Insolvency regime of Thailand (the Cabinet has approved further revisions to the amended 1. By July 31, 1998, Government will have submitted
Bankruptcy Act B.E.2483 (1940), as amended, including Bankruptcy Act B.E.2483 (1940) in order to facilitate these amendments to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483
the Companies Reorganization Act, 1998) requires various corporate bankruptcies and liquidations.      (1940) to Parliament for enactment.
refinements in order not to deter the reorganization of                                               2. By October 31, 1998, Government will have: (a)
companies whose liquidation values are smaller than their                                             endeavored to have these amendments to the Bankruptcy
values as going concerns and the automatic liquidation of                                              Act B.E. 2483 (1940) approved by Parliament; (b)
companies for which the opposite is true.                                                              designed and begun implementation of a program  of
Objectives and Program: Make improvements in the                                                      capacity-building within the Reorganization Office of the
legislative framework for corporate bankruptcies and the                                              Ministry of Justice; and (c) on the basis of a diagnostic
possible reorganization of companies in financial distress.                                            assessment of the  requirements to  implement the
Establish better institutional infrastructure to ensure that                                          insolvency law, adopted an action plan which identifies
any company in financial distress either gets reorganized                                              the procedural and budgetary elements of an efficient
as efficiently as possible, if reorganization is appropriate,                                          system of corporate insolvencies.
or, if not, is liquidated as efficiently as possible. Carry out                                        3. Government will continue to provide training in aspects
thorough training of all relevant parties to ensure new                                                of  corporate  bankruptcies  and  formal  corporate
provisions quickly become fully operational.                                                          reorganizations for judges and receivers and expand such
courses for trustees-in-bankruptcies, company managers,
lawyers accountants and others.
2. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalfraneworks for secured lending
Issue: Existing procedures for the realization of secured Government has adopted a time-bound action plan for 1. For the purpose of expediting the process of foreclosing
interests result in inordinate delays. Also, the existing legislative changes necessary to accelerate the process of on collateral, by July 31, 1998, Government will have: (a)
provisions on pledges and mortgages in Book III of the foreclosing on collateral.                     submitted to  Parliament, for enactment, appropriate
Civil and Commercial Code (CCC) need to be amended so                                                 amendments to the Civil and Commercial Procedures
that creditors' rights are more certain and effective and the                                          (CCP); and (b) prepared adjustments to the existing
range of assets of borrowers that can serve as collateral                                             procedural frameworks.
greatly expanded. Simple means of registering secured                                                 2. By  October 31, 1998, Government will have
interests and for the public to obtain this information need                                          endeavored to have these amendments to the CCP
to be provided.                                                                                        approved by Parliament.
Objectives and Program: Establish new procedures to                                                   3. On the basis of a diagnostic analysis of Book III of the
speed up the realization of secured interests. Establish                                               CCC and the requirements of a registry system for secured  Q
comprehensive legislative regime for secured lending.                                                 interests, by December 31, 1998, the Government will
Establish, and  make  fully  operational, a modem,                                                     have proposed steps to be put in place for: (a) an amended,
automated, centralized registry for secured interests.                                                 comprehensive, legislative regime for secured lending;
and (b) an automated, centralized, registry system  for
secured interests.



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS                           LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Ensure inprovements in the process of enforcing conumercial contracts and of corporate and commercial legislation, broadly defined
Issue: Judicial procedures in respect of corporate and                                            Government will undertake a thorough assessment of the
commercial cases, broadly defined, as well as the process                                         obstacles to the development of a more efficient system o
of enforcing judicial decisions once made, are too slow                                           judicial procedures for the resolution of commercial
and inefficient.                                                                                  disputes, including the enforcement of judggments, and, on
Objectives and Program: Ensure early improvement in                                               the basis of this assessment, recommend legislative
udicial system procedures in respect of the settlement of                                         proposals and institutional changes necessary to achieve
corporate and commercial disputes, broadly defined, and                                           the stated objectives.
ensure the efficient enforcement of judgments of courts
once these are rendered.
Iv. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1. Rationalize the institutionalframeworkfor setting standards and regulating accounting and auditing practices
Issue: Responsibility for setting formal accounting Government has adopted a time-bound program to The ICAAT will conduct a comprehensive review o
standards does not rest with a private independent establish an independent organization responsible for standard-setting and the regulation framework of the
organization; currently, standards are endorsed by the setting accounting standards consistent with international accounting and auditing profession by September 30,
Government. Moreover, there are multiple agencies that best practices, by December 31, 1998.       1998; it will then propose amendments to applicable laws
regulate, supervise, and define reporting requirements.                                           and regulations by December 31, 1998. The review will 
Objectives and Program: Rationalize the institutional                                            determine the relevance and appropriateness of the drafi e
framework for setting standards and regulating the                                                Accountants Council Act and the Accounting Act.
accounting and auditing profession in order to remove the
role of various agencies in regulating and supervising the
profession. Establish and ensure a proper role for an
independent standard-setting organization.
2 Strengthen the ICAATtoplay a leadership role in developnment of theprofession consistent with international best practices
Issue: The ICAAT, which develops all accounting and Government has adopted a time-bound program to review The professional body will become the primary private
auditing standards, is not fully independent in the role and functions of the Institute of Certified Accountants source for developing national qualifications, ensuring
standard-setting process and is not a self-regulating and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) to become an implementation of accounting and auditing standards, and
national professional body.                      independent self-regulatory professional body consistent conducting quality control of its members by December
Objectives and Program: Determine an appropriate role with international best practices, by December 31, 1998.  31, 1998. The professional body will ensure that a formal
for the ICAAT in standard-setting and regulating the                                              quality assurance process for audit firms that audit listed h
profession. Ensure that ICAAT's role in standard setting                                           companies will be established. The body will begin
and  regulating  the  profession  is consistent with                                               enforcing the code of ethics for practitioners by December
international best practices. An independent and self-                                             31, 1998.
regulating ICAAT will be responsible for setting auditing
standards and regulating the profession.



OBJECrlES AND PROGRAM                                 BOARD CONDITIONS                              LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY             I
3. Improve the quality and reliability of keyfinancial informaion provided by public corporations to regulators, shareholders, and the generalpublic
Issue: Accounting and auditing standards and practices, Government has announced that financial statements of|ICAAT  will issue revised accounting standards for
particularly in the areas of financial statement disclosures, listed and nonlisted public cnmpanies banks and finanicia1nancial  statement disclosures  asset classifictcin,i
loss recognition, asset classification, marketable securities, institutions with assets in excess of one billion Baht will marketable securities, and loss recognition as well as new
debt restructuring and impairment of assets, as well as be required to be prepared and audited in accordance with standards  for  attestation,  debt  restructuring  and
audit reports, are not consistent with international best international best practices beginning with the year 1999. impairment of assets, by December 31, 1998.
practices.                                                                                            Along with reputable accounting firms, ICAAT, SET, and
Objectives and  Program: Upgrade accounting and                                                       SEC will prepare a plan to improve the quality of audit
auditing  standards to  make  them  consistent with                                                   reports conducted for listed companies, nonlisted public
international best practices, and revise relevant laws and                                            companies, as well as banks and financial institutions by
regulations as necessary  to  require  that financial                                                 September 30, 1998, under TOR acceptable to the Bank.
statements of public companies be prepared and audited in                                             The Government will put into effect the revised format
accordance with such standards beginning with the year                                                (proposed by ICAAT) of audit reports, consistent with
1999.                                                                                                 international best practice, to include a paragraph on the
responsibility of management for preparation of financial
statements and responsibility of the auditor in rendering an
opinion on the fairness of financial statements. The new
format of the audit reports will be effective for the
financial year 1998.
The Government will produce a plan to remove the
burdensome statuary and mandatory requirement for
submitting audit reports to authorities for about 300,000
partnerships and inactive limited companies by September
130, 1998.
4. Strengthen thefinancial oversight role of the board of directors of corporations by requiring the establishment of audit committees
Issue: The intemal control and the related oversight role                                             SET, SEC, ICAAT  and IIAT will review  existing
of the boards of directors of companies is weak. Audit                                                requirements for the audit committees of the boards o
committees of the boards of directors are nonexistent or                                              directors for public companies by December 31, 1998.
ineffective.
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the internal control                                                                                                        X
structure of listed  companies, banks, and financial                                                                                                           Q
institutions and the related responsibility for oversight of l
the internal audit function and selection of extemal                                                  I
auditors.                                                                                            I



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BoARD CONDrrIONS                            LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY             I
5. Improve accountability of boards of directors and managemnent ofpublic companies
Issue: The boards of directors of listed companies and                                               SET and SEC will conduct a comprehensive review of the
financial institutions have not been effective in monitoring                                         duties  and   appointment  process  of  directors,
corporate management performance.                                                                    responsibilities of officers, and shareholder rights o
Objectives and Programs: Strengthen the effectiveness                                                public companies, including the listed companies, as well
and monitoring role of the boards of directors and enhance                                           as the liability of directors, officers, and shareholders. The
shareholder rights.                                                                                 review will be completed by September 30, 1998 under
TOR acceptable to the Bank. Based on the review, a
working group consisting of SEC, SET, IIAT, ICAAT,
MOF and MOC will recommend appropriate changes to
the legal and regulatory framework to ensure protection of
minority shareholder rights and accountability of officers
and directors by December 31, 1998.
6. Rationalize the regulatoryframeworkfor enforcement of laws and regulationsfor public companies
Issues: SEC  and  SET  responsibilities  overlap  in                                                 The Government will review the roles and responsibilities
enforcement of laws and regulations.                                                                 of SET, SEC, MOC, BOT and MOF in enforcing laws and
Objectives and Programs: Strengthen the framework for                                                regulations related to public companies, in consultation
enforcement of laws and regulations.                                                                 with the Bank. The Government will revise laws and
regulations as necessaty to ensure sanctions in case of
breach of duty by officers of Public Companies.
V. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM/PRIVATIZATION
1. OrganizationalArrangementfor State-Enterprise Reform
Issue: Responsibility for privatization, state enterprise                                            The Government will establish an effective Office of State
reform and private participation in infrastructure services                                          Enterprises within the Ministry of Finance to support the
is fragmented among CGD, FPO, NESDB.                                                                 State Enterprise Policy Commission and work with other
Objectives and  Program: Defining  authority  and                                                    agencies in coordinating the country's overall program for
responsibility of the various entities charged with the                                              privatization  and  private  sector  participation  in
design and implementation of the reform  program,                                                    infrastructure.
allocating staff of the appropriate seniority and
qualifications, and establishing clear and effective decision                                                                                                 U.
making processes would demonstrate the government's
commitment to advance the privatization agenda.



OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                              LETrTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Corporatization Law.
Issue: Privatization of individual public enterprises that  The Cabinet has approved the draft Corporatization Law|The Government to submit Corporatization Law  to
have not been incorporated usually requires complex  to  enable  State-Owned-Enterprises  to  convert intolParliament by July 31, 1998. This law  will permit
case-by-case legal approvals which leads to delays.  corporatized companies.                           corporatization of state-owned enterprises so that these
Objectives and Program: A Corporatization Law would                                                    may be wholly or partly divested to private owners.
constitute a first critical formal step in initiating the reform                                      I
program. The law includes provisions to transform state                                                                                                   l
enterprises into corporatized companies.                                                                                                                   l
Master Plan for State- Enterprise Reforml
Issue: The Government has not as yet formulated a                                                      By August 31, 1998, the Department will submit to the
coherent privatization strategy                                                                        Cabinet a Master Plan on state enterprise reform that
Objectives and Program: A comprehensive "Master                                                        would set out its medium-term strategy for privatization
Plan" setting out the broad medium-term vision form                                                    and SOE restructuring over the next two years.
privatization would be a major factor to restore                                                       This would include a firm commitment on
confidence in Thailand's economy among international                                                  (a) objectives, organizational arrangements, strategy of
investors                                                                                              priivatization and the future role of the state;
(b) timetables and sequence for the for corporatization and  
divestiture of key state enterprises (including energy,
telecommunications, water, EGAT);
(c) choice of the divestiture strategy (liquidation, full or
partial privatization  through joint ventures, private
placements or public offers);
(d) establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework
for transport, water, energy, and telecommunications; and
(e) improved monitoring of state enterprises remaining in
public ownership.
rjQ
EU



- 63 -                        ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: EXPANDING AND STRENGTHENING THE
SOCIAL SAFETY NET
1.    Adoption of a Social Investment Project (SIP) Aimed at Mitigating the Social
Costs of the Crisis in the Short Term. The project has three main objectives: (a) to
generate immediate employment by supporting high-priority labor-intensive programs;
(b) to improve chances of employment by providing training for the unemployed; and (c)
to support social programs used by the vulnerable which are now threatened by budget
cuts.
2.    The project includes B 21.6 billion of additional spending over the next 3.5 years,
backed by B 15.3 billion of Bank loans, and includes the following measures:
Employment
Supplementary support of existing government job-creation programs:
*  rehabilitation of cultural, historical and recreational sites (Tourism Authority
of Thailand);
*  construction of village roads, weirs and reservoirs (Ministry of Interior);
*  school building repair, footpath construction  (Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration);
*  rehabilitation and repair of river weirs (Royal Irrigation Department).
Expenditure:      B 10 billion
Employment Impact: more than 500,000 person-months over 2.5 years.
Training
Expansion of vocational and technical training for the unemployed (Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare)
Expenditure:      B 1.5 billion over 2.5 years
Impact:           more than 300,000 three-month training places.
Health
Improved and expanded coverage of the Low-Income Public Assistance Health
Insurance Scheme (Ministry of Health)
Expenditure:      B 1.25 billion over 2.5 years
Additional coverage: 1.5 million people a year
Supplementary financing of the Community-Based Care of Patients with AIDS
Program (implemented through NGOs)
Expenditure:      B 90 million



-64-                          ANNEX 1
Rural Development
Expansion of the Rural Industrial Employment Promotion Program (Ministry of
Industry, with implementation support from NGOs), to stimulate investment and
employment
Expenditure:      B 310 million over 2.5 years
Impact:           84 new industrial enterprises, 3,000 permanent jobs created
Strengthening Decentralization and Community Participation
Two new funds will be created to support local investments aimed at reducing
poverty and creating new employment opportunities:
The Social Investment Fund will provide grants to support rural community
projects
The Regional Urban Development Fund will provide subloans to help
municipalities expand their investment programs:
Expenditure:      B 7.8 billion over 3.5 years
Employment Impact: 475,000  person-months through  more  than  11,000
subprojects.
Monitoring Poverty and Improved Targeting
Creating of a special unit within the Ministry of Finance to monitor SIP
performance and effectiveness, working with the Bank to ensure improved
largeting and efficient delivery of SIP social programs.
3.    Social assistance programs under the ADB's Social Sector Program Loan,
involving expenditures of approximately B 20 billion over two years.
3Labor Market and Social Welfare Policy
E.stablish a center for providing retraining, counseling, and placement-support
services for the unemployed. Extend social security coverage to at least six
months for laid-off workers, to include medical, maternity, disability, and death
benefits.
Education and Health
4l Expand scholarship and loan programs to minimize student dropouts;
* Protect operational budgets for teacher training and instructional materials in
science, mathematics, and foreign language education;
Reallocate the budget toward health programs for the poor and redeploy health
staff to rural areas;
El Maintain program coverage for maternal, child health, and HIV/AIDS
activities.
4.    Price-based measures to cushion the impact of the adjustment program
El Maintenance of urban bus and rail fares at subsidized prices, with a budgetary
impact of about B 3 billion annually.



-65 -                         ANNEX 1
5.    The Government has already decided to increase severance pay to 10 months for
workers with more than 10 years' service, and has also established an Assistance Fund to
ensure that workers dismissed from bankrupt firms receive adequate cash support. The
Government is currently considering an enhanced strategy to strengthen further the social
safety net. Toward this, the Government has just extended social security benefits
(including maternity, disability, and death) for those unemployed, from 6 months up to 12
months.
Source: Compiled by IMF with inputs from the Bank and the Asian Development Bank.



-66-                           ANNEX 2
AN:NEX 2: RESOLUTION OF SUSPENDED FINANCE
COMPANIES
1.    This Annex sets out in greater detail the institutional arrangements and policies
that the authorities have put in place to deal with the resolution of the suspended fmance
companies. It outlines government actions to resolve the situation of the 16 finance
companies suspended on June 27, 1997, and the 42 finance companies suspended on
August 5, 1997.
1. BACKGROUND
2.    St:ructure and Size of the Finance Company Industry. The Thai financial
system includes 91 finance companies (FCs) and finance and securities firms worth B 1.7
trillion in assets as of May 1997. Over 40 percent of this amount was held by 11 FCs
prior to the suspension of the 58 companies. The FC sector accounts for about 22 percent
of total banking assets.! Many FCs are affiliated with and controlled by commercial
banks, often in a nontransparent manner. Specifically, of the remaining 33 nonsuspended
finance companies, five are affiliated with foreign banks and 20 with wholly
domestically-owned Thai commercial banks.
3.    FC loans and investments are concentrated in real estate or construction lending,
consumer hire-purchase loans (primarily automobile financing), loans against shares, and
other securities operations (much of which is linked to the real estate market). The quality
and value of all these assets have deteriorated sharply during the current economic
downturn. Most FCs are funded with wholesale liabilities, and thus run significant
liquidity risk. FCs also typically run 'significant interest rate risk due to the maturity
mismatch between their assets and liabilities-35 percent of loans and 5 percent of
funding have on average a maturity of over one year. The recent increase in interest rates
therefore has resulted in significant losses. Finally, FCs also obtained foreign funding via
syndications (particularly the largest FCs), and in many cases these funds were onlent to
nonhedged companies or sectors.
4.    The fixed exchange rate regime coupled with a lack of adequate information
relating to the sectors (notably real estate) to which the FCs lent contributed to the severe
problems facing the FCs. First, the fixed exchange rate made it attractive to borrow at low
rates internationally and onlend funds at higher rates into risky sectors. Second, the poor
quality of information about the sectors where FC lending was concentrated made it
difficult for such entities to properly assess the risks to which they were exposed.
I  This includes commercial banks, finance companies and five specialized public banks.



-67 -                          ANNEX 2
5.    Suspension of 58 Finance Companies. On June 26, 1997, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) ordered 16 FCs into suspension, effectively bringing their operations to a
halt. A further 42 FCs were suspended on August 5, 1997. The suspended companies
were ordered by the Committee to Supervise the Mergers and Acquisitions (Screening
Committee) to submit rehabilitation plans and undergo due diligence by independent
accountant. Four categories of rehabilitation plan were invited to be submitted: self-
recapitalizations or recapitalizations with new ventures, mergers among suspended
finance companies, mergers with other local financial institutions as a core, and mergers
with commercial banks. The companies had until October 30, 1997 to submit the
rehabilitation plans.
2. BOTTLENECKS TO THE RESOLUTION PROCESS
6.    Lack of Accurate Information on the Solvency of Financial Institutions. The
capacity of BOT to ascertain the present solvency situation of financial institutions and
identify insolvent institutions was limited at the time of the suspension. Evidence of this
problem is the fact that suspension of the 58 finance companies was largely based upon
the extent of borrowing from FIDF, rather than their solvency situation. This was largely
due to the very poor information available on the quality of financial institutions' loan
portfolio. In particular, income recognition policies allowing the accrual of interest into
income (for collateralized loans) even in the case of loans in nonaccrual for 12 months,
led to great difficulties for the authorities to determine the "true" capitalization of specific
financial institutions.
7.    Limited Capacity to Take Control of Insolvent Institutions. As a matter of
good practice, when a financial institution is forced to suspend its operations, the
authorities must act aggressively to take control of the institution's records and assets in
order to preserve value on behalf of depositors, creditors and other claim-holders. It is
important that the value of assets not be dissipated. BOT, however, lacked the legal
power as well as the institutional capacity to take immediate control of the suspended
FCs, and proceed to dispose of the assets:
(a)   BOT did not have the legal power to take immediate control over
insolvent or rapidly deteriorating financial institutions. This occurred
because existing legislation (the Banking Act and the Finance Company
and Credit Foncier Acts) did not give BOT and/or FIDF the power to
rapidly extinguish shareholder rights. Moreover, BOT lacked the capacity
(in termns of skills and manpower) to practically remove the existing
management and putting each company under conservatorship. During
suspension therefore, shareholders and managers remained in control of
the institution, and are potentially in a position to strip the institution of
substantial value.
(b)   No institutional framework existed for disposing of the assets of
suspended finance companies in the event they were taken over and



-68 -                           ANNEX 2
liquidated. In addition, the role of the public and private sector in this
process had not been clearly defined nor had the overall institutional
framework.
8.    Other constraints to a timely resolution. The Government faced other practical
constraints to liquidating the assets of the suspended FCs, which have delayed the
resolution process and undermined market confidence in the authorities' capacity and
willingness to act:
*  a significant proportion of assets in suspended companies were of poor quality; this
situation has worsened in the months between suspension and the takeover of the
companies on December 8;
*  under the Thai legal system it is difficult to foreclose on assets or take delinquent
borrowers to bankruptcy;
* very few, if any, healthy domestic financial institutions existed that could bid for the
assets of the suspended FCs;
*  market liquidity continues to be limited; and
* the Government had limited institutional capacity and banking and investment
banking skills needed to implement a resolution strategy for the FCs.
9.    Effects of Delays in the Resolution Process. The way the suspension was
managed in its early stages had significant adverse consequences for the institutions'
customers. Borrowers, including viable firms, have been unable to obtain additional
credit from the suspended FCs. As a result, they have increasingly gone into default with
other lenders such as commercial banks and nonsuspended finance companies; in many
cases, they have been unable to establish credit relationships with other financial
institutions, since their assets and deposit-account relationships are tied up in the
suspended institutions. Liability holders generally have not had access to their funds
according to original contractual terms, contributing to an undermining of confidence in
the financial system.
10.   As the confidence crisis intensified and the suspension period lengthened, more of
the 58 suspended companies became technically insolvent. Calculations based on
reasonable assumptions suggest that the suspended FCs came under greater stress than the
33 remaining companies and that at least 51 had a negative capital ratio as of October
1997.2
2  This result assumes that nonperforming loans as a percent of total loans for the suspended FCs
together would be almost 30 percent.



- 69 -                        ANNEX 2
3. OBJECTIVES AND INSTITUTIONAL SETUP FOR THE RESOLUTION PROCESS
11.   Objectives of the Finance Company Resolution Strategy. Against this
backdrop, the objectives of the recommended strategy for the resolution of the 58
suspended FCs were to:
* obtain adequate legal powers and adopt better institutional arrangements and policies
for the speedy takeover and ultimate liquidation of suspended FCs;
* rapidly sell obligations of good borrowers in FCs that will not be authorized to
reopen;
* clarify the status of creditor claims in suspended FCs ; and
* ensure adequate financing to achieve above.
12.  Institutional Arrangements and Overall Resolution Process. The large number
of suspended finance companies presented BOT and FIDF with difficult management
problems. Hence, to provide coordination and insure a speedy process for resolution of
the 58 suspended finance companies the authorities issued a package of six new
emergency decrees promulgated on October 22, 1997. Two new institutions, the Financial
Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and the Asset Management Corporation (AMC),
were established as the focal points for resolving the suspended finance companies. The
new structure addresses these problems in a systematic and comprehensive manner.
13.   The FRA was established on October 24 as an independent body with the mandate
to evaluate the rehabilitation plans submitted by the suspended finance firms in
accordance with the Emergency Decree on Financial Sector Restructuring-one of the six
emergency decrees. Charts 1 and 2 below illustrate the functions that the FRA has
undertaken from the time the 38 rehabilitation plans were submitted, until the final
decision on rehabilitation plans, which was made public on December 8, 1997.
14.   FRA has responsibility for reviewing the rehabilitation plans submitted by the
suspended FCs according to explicit criteria outlined in the following section. In addition,
it is to oversee the orderly winding-up of finance companies not reopened and the
disposition of their assets. This process involves appointing Committees for each finance
company which replace the original Board of Directors. The committees are to appoint
special managers with responsibility for: (a) assuming control of each company; (b)
stratifying the assets into categories according to their quality; and (c) recommending
specific options for the resolution to a special advisory board (the Sales Group), under
FRA. FRA is not to engage in the restructuring of individual assets nor will it directly
manage or finance note exchange schemes (with KTT and KTB). FRA is committed to
begin selling the closed finance company assets in the first quarter of 1998, and to
complete asset sales by December 1998.



-70 -                                                ANNEX 2
CHART 1: FRA RESOLUTION PROCESS
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AUTHORITY
OVERVIEW
Sources                                       Suspended 7                                 Bankof                Financial
Of                     / Rehabilitation /    / Finance    /                              Thailand             Informadon
Of                   /     Plan              Company       /    DueDiigence            Supervision          from Suspended
Information                                    Dialogue               /                   Division          Finance Companie
Tools ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Financial Model
Tools_                                                                                                    | 
Rehabilitation Plan
and DD Work
Program                                              Financial Model
Work Program
Independent
Consultancy            Business Strategy                                                                  Eonomic Assumption
Assessmeng:        Asset Compliance    Roll Forward Asset    Capital Adequacy        Stress Tetas:
Assistance:              Robustness of          Review            Quality Review      Compliance Review      Robustness of
Assessment,              Business Plan                                                                        Business Plan
Validation And
Control
Detailed                                    Rehabilitation Plan                         Financial Model
and Due Diligence                               and
Reports                                      Detailed Report                           Stress Test Report
Final Reports                                                       FRA Board
Sunumary Report



CHART 2: FRA RESOLUTION PROCESS
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AUTHORITY 
- SELF-RECAPITAUSATIONS
- RECAPITALSATION WITH NEW VENT1URE     ECONOMIC
- MERGER AMONG SUSPENDED FIRMS    _    AssuMPnoN    -
REHABIlIATION                          STRESS TEST
PLANS 
|DD REVIEVWSFINANCIAL                                 EVALLI_UAON
-1- MODEWNG    -  COMPLETENESS
ONITlOL CHECKS                                     STUIO
* MERGER WYlTH                                                                                             BOT UAISON
LOCAL FINANCIAL                                       _
INSTITUTIONS                           CAPITAL                                 AGGREGATE AND
+    ADEQUACY                                    PEER GROUP
REHABIH.JTAION                        COMPILATION                                   MODELJNG                     r
PLANS                                REVIEW          REHABIUTATON                                          DR,UI /  FINAL   /                ACCEPT
PLAN AND DO                             _          SUMMARV             N SDMMARV
| DD REVIEWS                                           REVIEW                                        /  REPORT /          REPOR 
BOT ASSET FREHBILTATON                                             I          I               I           REJECT
- MERGER WIUALITYHG                                                                   LA
COMMERCIAL                          RREPORING                                    ROBUSTNESS
BANKS
REHABIUTATION                             ASSET      | REHABIUTON
PLANS                              COMPUANCE         PLAN EVALUATION
REVIEW             SUPPORT
|D REVIEWS
ROLL FORWARD
ASSET QUALITY
REVIEW
ESTIMATED     31.10    *                   14.41                                  26.11                                                         30.11- 
TIME
3RD PARTY
VERIFICATION



-72-                           ANNEX 2
15.   T1he second institution created under the October emergency decrees, AMC, is to
act as a de facto asset disposition corporation for either suspended finance companies or
open finEnce companies and commercial banks. This entity is responsible for buying
through reserve bids impaired assets put for sale by FRA, in competition with private
sector institutions (see Chart 4). It would subsequently manage, restructure, collect on the
assets, and/or resell the assets to corporate buyers. The goal of AMC is to maximize the
value of the assets to be sold, and to maintain an orderly real estate rmarket. AMC is
designed as a vehicle to overcome in the near term the impediments to asset liquidations,
to create a market for distressed assets, and to utilize new troubled debt restructuring
techniques to assist in what will be a large number of industrial restructurings.
16.   The Government has appointed the AMC Board and Chairman, and is in the
process of examining options for its financing and governance structure. The authorities
have committed themselves to a series of additional actions so that AMC will be staffed
and operational by January 31,1998. The authorities have authorized a capital of B 1
billion for the AMC, of which B 250 million have already been approved.
17.   Finally, the authorities are currently examining options for the asset disposal
process. This process will be of prime importance to the financial outcome of the closure
of the designated finance companies. The institutional and policy framework for disposal
of good and bad assets is to include the specific roles of FRA, AMC, FIDF, and the
creation of a "new bank." PLMO, an earlier unsuccessful mechanism for purchasing
finance company assets, is not expected to play a significant role in the resolutions
process.
4. EVALUATION OF SHAREHOLDER-LED REHABILITATION PLANS
18.   The shareholders of the suspended finance companies have been given an
opportunity to propose voluntary rehabilitation plans. Criteria for the evaluation of these
plans were originally issued in early September by the special Screening Committee, and
subsequently modified by the authorities, in negotiations with the Bank and the IMF, to
reflect relevant agreements between the Government and the IMF. In particular, it was
deemed crucial to the integrity and credibility of the overall resolution package that FCs
be permitted to emerge from suspension only if they had adequate equity capital and
liquidity, strong management, and fit and proper shareholders.
19.   The final criteria against which the rehabilitation plans were measured included:
(a) adequate recapitalization of the suspended firm; (b) plans for repayment of debt; (c)
sufficient and reliable sources of funds for liquidity management; and (d) quality of
management. To gain approval, a submitted rehabilitation plan had to pass evaluation on
each of the criteria.
20.   The overall rehabilitation package also included the following guidelines: explicit
recapitalization standards for both existing and new owners; guidelines for conversion of
FIDF debt to equity as part of rehabilitation plans; requirements that existing shares be
fully written down; imposition of upper limits on allowed conversions; and allowance for



-73 -                         ANNEX 2
up to 100 percent foreign equity investment for 10 years, with the investment (but not the
percentage ownership) grandfathered thereafter. FIDF debt can now be restructured
provided other creditors restructure their claims in a similar manner. Moreover, BOT has
announced criteria relating to finance companies to be rehabilitated for the approval of
proposed new management and for monitoring acquisitions and new sources of capital.
21.   The final criteria have been applied by FRA in its evaluation of the rehabilitation
plans (see Chart 3). A total of 38 rehabilitation plans were submitted in accordance with
the prescribed deadlines. Of the 38, 29 involved recapitalizations, two were based on
mergers among suspended companies, five anticipated mergers with other local financial
institutions and two involved mergers with commercial banks. Operationally, FRA has
implemented a three-step decision-making process for rehabilitation proposals:
(a)   design of a modeling framework within which FRA evaluated the
submitted rehabilitation and business plans;
(b)   validation of asset valuations implicit in the rehabilitation proposals; and
(c)   examination by an independent third party to ensure that the process
followed by FRA in assessing rehabilitation plans is consistent with the
criteria designed in close coordination with the Bank and the IMF.
22.   With strong economic leadership provided by the new Government-in place
since early November, 1997-and the full backing of MOF, FRA has moved with
impressive speed, decisiveness and transparency in dealing with this stage of the
resolution process. It has been effectively supported by experts from consulting,
accounting, law and public relations firms of international standard, mobilized at short
notice, and funded under the World Bank-financed technical assistance loan. The World
Bank has deployed additional resident capacity in the Bangkok office to assist this urgent
process, providing an immediate response capacity on a day-to-day basis.
23.   On December 8, the authorities announced that 2 of the 38 rehabilitation plans had
been approved, and 36 rejected. This has meant that only 2 of the 58 suspended
companies have been authorized to reopen. Strict conditions have been applied to the
companies, whose rehabilitation plans were approved by FRA in agreement with BOT,
particularly in respect to capitalization. FRA will monitor implementation of the
approved rehabilitation plans.3 Once rehabilitation has been satisfactorily completed,
FRA will report this to MOF, which will transfer supervision responsibility to BOT.
3  BOT is forrnally represented in the FRA Board.



L  CHART3  I
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AUTHORITY
(No. 3/2540 Sec 1.1)     FIDF's Conversion                 Foreign                           Source of Funds.
Capital Adequacy Ratio      of Debt to Equity              Shareholders                           Bid Bonds
*Self recapitalisation                                                                                           *Cash, bonds and other liquid assets
*"Capital Adequacy                                 *Unlimited amount of shares may    are acceptable in evidence for the Bid
Ratio"                   *Not permitted for "self-    be held by foreign shareholders up  Bond.
*Recapitalisation with                            recapitalisation" or       to the period of 10 years.          *Evidence presented must not be less
new venture                                       "merger among other       *After 10 years, foreign investors  than 5% of total recapitalised funds.
suspended firms" where    may not purchase any more shares    *Once the plan has been approved,
Yr 1  15% Tier 1 and 2   the structure of the major  unless the amount held is less than  new investors must transfer the total
*Merger among                  12% Tier 1         shareholder remains        49% of the total shares            recapitalised funds into an escrow
suspended finance         Yr 2  12%                unchanged and             (accordingly, the foreign investor  account not less than 15 days prior to
companies                 Yr 3  10%                management control.       may acquire up to the 49% level)   pursuing the normal cause of
business.
*Permitted once the                                           *Cash, bonds and other liquid assets
*"Capital funds after the  existing shareholders  *Unlimited amount of shares may     are acceptable in evidence for the Bid
merger less contingent  have realised the loss    be held by foreign shareholders up  Bond
liabilities with maturities    incurred, provided that:  to the period of 10 years.   'Evidence presented must not be less
*Merger with other local  and provisions for      -conversion must not       *After 10 years, foreign investors  than 5% of total recapitalised funds.
financial institutions    doubtful assets"        exceed 33% of              may not purchase any more shares    *Once the plan has been approved,
which act as a core                               recapitalised funds        unless the amount held is less than  new investors must transfer the total
Yr 1  12%               -conversion may be made    49% of the total shares            recapitalised funds into an escrow
Yr 2  12%               up to 25% of institutions'    (accordingly, the foreign investor  account not less than 15 days prior to
Yr 3  10%               fully paid capital if     may acquire up to the 49% level)    pursuing the normal cause of
appropriate.                                                 business.
'Cash, bonds and other liquid assets
*Unlimited amount of shares may    are acceptable in evidence for the Bid
be held by foreign shareholders up  Bond
to the period of 10 years.         *Evidence presented must not be less
*Merger with               *"'Capital adequacy ratio                          *After 10 years, foreign investors  than 5% of total recapitahsed funds.
commercial bank            specified by the Bank of                           may not purchase any more shares   *Once the plan has been approved,
Thailand."                                        unless the amount held is less than  new investors must transfer the total
49% of the total shares            recapitalised funds into an escrow
(accordingly, the foreign investor  account not less than 15 days prior to
may acquire up to the 49% level)   pursuing the normal cause of
business.



EI CEIART3I
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AUTHORITY I
*Quality of management
*If extension of              *Track Record                                      *Sufficiency to support customers'
repayment to FIDF is          *Honesty and trustworthiness                       withdrawals
requested, maturity must       *Absence of fraud, lack of responsibility,
not exceed eight years        unfair play, dishonesty                            *Appropriateness of nature of stock of
*Own financial conduct                            liquidity
*Interest cost and penalty    *Questionable business practices and activities
fees                                                                             *Sources of additional liquidity
*Quality of management
*If extension of               *Track Record                                     *Sufficiency to support customers'
repayment to FIDF is           *Honesty and trustworthiness                      withdrawals
requested, maturity must       *Absence of fraud, lack of responsibility,
not exceed eight years         unfair play, dishonesty                           *Appropriateness of nature of stock of
*Own financial conduct                            liquidity
*Interest cost and penalty     *Questionable business practices and activities
fees                                                                             *Sources of additional liquidity
*Quality of management
*lf extension of               *Track Record                                     *Sufficiency to support customers'
repayment to FIDF is           *Honesty and trustworthiness                      withdrawals
requested, maturity must       *Absence of fraud, lack of responsibility,
not exceed eight years         unfair play, dishonesty                           *Appropriateness of nature of stock of
*Own financial conduct                            liquidity
*Interest cost and penalty     *Questionable business practices and activities    qit
fees                                                                             *Sources of additional liquidity



CHART 4-OVERVIEW OF ASSET REALIZATION PROCESS
I   >R   F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
EE:   ';~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-77-                             ANNEX 2
5. A BROAD LOOK AT ASSET DISPOSITION
24.   Asset Classification  and  Recovery  Process. As  of the  December 8
announcement, those suspended companies whose rehabilitation plans were not accepted
were put under the direction of Committees, which have been established and appointed
by the FRA Board in accordance with Section 30 of the Emergency Decree on Financial
Sector Restructuring.4 The Committees, in turn, appointed Special Managers under a
Power of Attorney to take control and manage the business of each company and to
safeguard the interests of creditors; Special Advisors, most of them from international
accounting forms, were also appointed to provide best-international-practice advice to the
Special Managers. The mandate of the Special Managers is clear and specific-to
preserve and maximize the value of assets on behalf of depositors and creditors, and
classify assets according to type, size and quality for the purpose of their eventual sale.5
Special Managers are also to periodically review the staffing situation at each company in
accordance with relevant Thai labor laws, and work with remaining staff to rejuvenate
loan collection and enhance the value of existing businesses.
25.   Treatment of Depositors and Creditors. Depositors in the suspended banks are
fully protected through the option of exchanging their claims on the suspended FC for
claims on Krung Thai Bank (KTB) or Krungthai Thanakit (KTT)-two publicly
controlled financial institutions. These claims will be serviced (both principal and
interest) by FIDF. Similarly, creditors of the 42 FCs suspended in August (but not those
of the 16 FCs first suspended) have the option to exchange notes with KTB. The deadline
for exchanging to KTB notes, which are fully guaranteed by the Government, was
extended to March 1998. Creditors in the 16 FCs first suspended do not have the option
of exchanging their claims, and will have to modify their claims under a shareholder
rehabilitation program, or negotiate their claim to the proceeds of the liquidation of the
FCs' assets administered by FRA.6 Creditors, both domestic and international, are to be
treated equally et pari passu with the FIDF (which is the largest creditor).
26.   Financing. The principal financing requirements under the plan are for AMC's
purchase of impaired assets in FRA auctions, and FIDF's obligations under the note
exchange program. FRA financing needs should be limited to its overhead expenses and
4   Each Committee contains three core members who serve on all committees: a Chairman from the
Inspector General's office of the Ministry of Finance, a second representative from the Ministry of
Finance and a representative of the Bank of Thailand. Each committee also contains three members
specific to each individual company. The three include: an FRA representative knowledgeable about
the specific finance company, a Bank of Thailand supervisor and a nongovernment-affiliated
representative of the company's creditors.
5   Shareholders may recover some of their investment in the event that funds remain after repayments to
depositors and creditors.
6   See Annex 3 on the Note Exchange Schemes for greater detail.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 2
the cost of consultants, the latter to be financed in large part by the World Bank under the
Financial Sector Implementation Assistanice Project.
27.   It is estimated that FIDF's total funding requirement associated with the Note
Exchange programs of KTT and KTB will aggregate around B 500 billion assuming all
claimholders exercise their option under these programs, with the bulk of the financing
required only in the fifth year.
28.    The Role of AMC. The Asset Management Company (AMC) has a crucial role in
the resolution process. It is to acquire impaired assets auctioned off by FRA, as a bidder
of last resort; manage, restructure, and make collections on these assets; and eventually
resell them. It is required to do so in a manner that maximizes asset values, and enhances
market confidence. Rough estimates suggest that AMC may need to purchase around
B 300 billion (market value) in assets. An adequately funded, well-performing AMC is
key to a successful resolution, and accelerated progress is needed in these two areas. First,
AMC needs to increase its authorized capital, from the current B I billion to B 10 billion.
Plans for adequate funding for AMC have been prepared and announced by the
Government, with a timetable for disbursement, and first payment by MOF in February.
Second, AMC needs to urgently develop: (a) appropriate internal polices and procedures;
(b) bidding procedures consistent with AMC's role as bidder of last resort, and agreeable
to FRA; and (c) an appropriate MIS system. A third-party review of AMC's internal
policies, procedures, and MIS, is to be carried out by MOF before Board presentation of
the loan.
6. CORE ASSET SALES PROCESS AND PROCEDURES
29.    FRA has prepared guidelines and procedures for the orderly disposal of assets of
the FCs not authorized to reopen (see Chart 4 above). It is the objective of FRA to
complete the sale of all core financial assets by end-1998. Assets are to be sold through
competitive bidding, with the asset sales process is governed by the following principles:
(a) maximizing value to creditors; (b) promptness of execution; (c) nondiscrimination; (d)
fairness; and (e) transparency of process. Bidders will include private sector financial
institutions and other firms or individuals, the creditors of suspended finance companies,
the AMC, and the government-established "new bank" (the Radhanasin Bank).7
7   The following parties are excluded from participating in the sales process: (a) FRA'S Board members
and employees; (b) Section 30 Committee(s) of the finance company(ies) participating in each sale;
(c) Special Managers and Special Advisors (and their employees) of the finance companies
participating in each sale; and (d) consultants and advisors to FRA. For the avoidance of doubt, all
other potential bidders, including shareholders, creditors, debtors and former employees of each
finance company, are welcome to participate in the core asset sales process. Debtors of the finance
companies will not be allowed to bid on only their own or related party loan(s). Debtors will,
however, be allowed to bid for a package that includes their own or related party loan(s) where the
book value of their own or related party loans is not greater than a specified percentage of the total
book value of all loans within the package. This percentage will initially be set at 10 percent.



-79 -                          ANNEX 2
30.   Each sale will contain specific classifications of the core assets, identified
according to the finance company(ies) from which they are sourced. FRA will consider
for acceptance bids in respect of each individual finance company's core assets included
in the sales package. FRA will also consider bids in respect of all, or a number of, finance
companies core assets within a package (that is, an interdependent bid), but the bid must
identify the amount attributable to each individual finance company's assets.
Approximate time between announcement of each sale and signing of contract with
winning bidder, is about 4 to 5 months. Concurrent auctions are expected to take place at
the same time. Governing principles of the sales will include the following:
Provision of Information:
*  Sales Information Memorandum. All parties interested in the announced sale may
request further information, which will initially comprise a Sales Information
Memorandum-including general information on the sales process and an estimated
timetable for the current sale. The specific content of each Sales Information
Memorandum will reflect the nature of the core assets for sale and the availability of
relevant information from the finance company(ies) from which they are sourced.
Information provided may include both company fact sheets and summary core asset
details.
*  Sales Data Files. Upon reviewing the Sales Information Memorandum, all parties
wishing to obtain further detailed information on the core assets may apply for access
to the Sales data Files. The content of the Sales data Files will again reflect the nature
of the core assets for sale (in electronic form) and the availability of relevant
information from the finance company(ies) from which they are sourced. The Sales
Data Files will be made available to all parties on the same date.
-  Data Room Access. Appropriate loan files, credit papers, collateral documents and
other information relevant to the evaluation of the assets will be made available to
allow interested parties to perform such due diligence procedures as they consider
necessary. Finite time periods will be established for access to the data rooms, as
appropriate for each portfolio. These will be determined and disclosed when
conformation of access is provided.
*  Bids. Bids must be submitted to FRA by a predetermined date. This date will be
disclosed to potential bidders prior to being granted access to the Data Rooms. This
date will vary according to the assets being sold, but is likely to be around four (4)
weeks after the date on which Data Room access is first granted. Binding Bids must
be submitted in accordance with the proscribed format and must remain open for
acceptance for at least a predetermined period of time.
*  Bid Evaluation and Negotiations. FRA will perform binding bid evaluations within
approximately 14 days of the due date of submission. Bids will be evaluated in
accordance with defined criteria. These include value, timing and liquidity of



- 80 -                         ANNEX 2
payment. FRA will commence negotiations of the final sales contract with the
preferred bidder immediately after the priority order of bids has been established. If
the negotiations with the preferred bidder are not successful, the second in the priority
order will be pursued.
Bid Principles:
*  Currency. All Bids must be submitted in Thai Baht or such other currency as FRA
may determine and disclose from time to time.
*  Consideration. All bid consideration must be rendered in cash or Thai government
securities, which are negotiable, transferable and marketable on a recognized
exchange. FRA may announce other forms of acceptable consideration from time to
time.
*  Representation and Warranties. FRA will offer no representations and warranties
with respect to the assets for sale. Further, FRA will not accept responsibility or
liability for the accuracy or completeness of information provided to interested parties
in the course of the sales process. Interested parties must undertake such
investigations and due diligence procedures as they see fit before entering into any
contract. FRA will offer limited protection to successful bidders in respect of fraud
and/or defects in title to underlying security.
Unsolicited Bids:
*  Flexibility to Benefit Creditors. The market for the assets held by the 56 FTCs will
be dynamic. FRA anticipates that certain bids will be received that do not conform in
all respects to the published sales strategy and portfolios advertised for sale. In order
to ensure attractive offers that may benefit creditors are adequately considered, FRA
has developed a procedure for the receipt, evaluation and treatment of unsolicited
bids.
*  Evaluation of Unsolicited Bids. In order for an unsolicited bid to be considered
attractive, it must: (a) be submittedL in writing in the form of a binding bid; (b)
incorporate minimum due diligence requirements; and (c) be for an amnount that FRA
considers would have a reasonable prospect of being the successful bid in an open
competitive bidding.
*  Initiation of Open Competitive Bidding Process. When a bid is considered
attractive, FRA will initiate an open competitive bidding process, as dLescribed in 1 to
8 above, for each asset component of the bid received as soon as reasonably possible
thereafter. The minimum of a competitive bidding process will be one month.



ANNEX 3: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR ENHANCING THE
SUPERVISORY CAPACITY OF BOT
March 1998 - March 2000
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                             SCHEDULE        TA REQUIRED
TRAINING/WORKSHOPS
Organize loan restructuring seminar for bankers and supervisory staff; guidelines to be announced in June, 1998  May 1998    WB
Organize training program on real estate valuations for industry and supervisory staff                  May 1998             WE        l
Organize training program on credit analysis and credit risk management                                 July 1998            WB
Organize training program  on assessing fnancial institution's internal audit function and internal control 2nd half of 1998  WB
infrastructure
Organize basic training program on market, interest rate and liquidity risks                          1st half of 1999       WB
Organize training program on assessing fnancial institution's management                              1st half of 1999       WE        l
Organize high level training program for specialized examiners on market, interest rate and liquidity risks  2nd half of 1999  WB
Organize training program on information technology risk                                              2nd half of 1999       WB
REGULATiONS & GUiDELiNES
Draft guidelines for loan restructuring/renegotiated debt                                             May/June 1998        WB/IMF
Draft guidelines for real estate valuations                                                           May/June 1998        WB/IMF
Draft notification to industry regarding possible assessment of penalties for late and inaccurate regulatory reports; the  May 1998  WB
notification may include the mandatory use of external audits to improve regulatory reporting
Draft internal guidelines for enforcing new classification system                                        2Q 1998             WB
Draft internal guidelines for credit analysis and credit risk management assessment                      July 1998           WB
Draft internal guidelines for assessing fnancial institution's internal audit function and internal control enviromnent  July 1998  WB
Draft new guidelines for enhanced rating system and develop comprehensive examination manual (pre-exam, exam,  1st half of 1999  WB
post exam)
Draft a manual for assessing trading operations                                                       1st half of 1999       WB
Draft internal guidelines for evaluating interest, liquidity and market risks                         1st half of 1999       WB
Draft internal guidelines on information technology risk assessment                                   2nd half of 1999       WB       
RATING SYSTEM
Review and enhance the current rating system to provide a supervisory tool for evaluating the overall condition of 2nd half of 1998  WB
supervised institutions



ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                             SCHEDULE        TA REQUIRED
OFFSITE SURVEILLANCE
BOT to perform a review of regulatory reports to assess usefulness of information requested as well as to identify    2Q of 1998  WB
missing infornation
Redefine the roles and responsibilities of financial analysts in the three departments of Bank Supervision  2nd half of 1998
Draft early warning system procedures for financial analysts                                          2nd half of 1998       WB
BOT to develop consolidated reporting for financial institutions                                      1 st half of 1999      WB
Monitor and analyze the financial condition of supervised institutions on a fully consolidated basis  1st half of 1999
ExcHANGE OF INFORMATION
Improve exchange of information between the two examinations departments for monitoring related financial    June 1998
institutions
MIS
Enhance internal supervisory reports for senior management                                               Ongoing
COMMUNICATIONS
Improve the sharing of information and communication within and among departments                        Ongoing
CAREER DEVELOPMENT
00
Institute a formal rotation program                                                                        1999
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
Develop comprehensive guidelines for requiring prompt corrective actions based on supervisory concerns or breaches    End of 1998  WB
noted



- 83 -                                   ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: STATE ENTERPRISE REFORM
State enterprises play a relatively small role in Thailand's economy. The public
sector owns some 65 companies, with total assets of B 2.8 trillion and net assets of B 743
billion (Table 1). Its activities in the real sectors are concentrated in energy (power and
petroleum), communications, and transportation. Energy and communications account for
nearly two thirds of assets of the nonfinancial public enterprises and half of their
employment. The government also owns five banks, including the second largest
commercial bank.
TABLE 1: PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FINANCIAL INDICATORS: 1998
Liabil-   Net    Reve-   Earn-   Profit/  Profits/  Profits/ Employ-
No.  Assets   ities    Assets   nue    ings   Assets    NA      Sales    ees
Energy                   7  644.9   388.6   256.3   465.8    54.8       8.5    21.4    11.8   93,578
Transport                5  178.7   127.1    51.6    18.1    -2.4    -1.3    -4.7   -13.3   57,376
Marine Transport         4   18.2      5.3    12.9     9.6      3.1    17.0    24.0    32.3   10,168
Aviation                 4  160.4   108.9    51.5    89.3       8.9     5.5    17.3    10.0  32,001
Communications           3  254.9    61.7   193.2    71.3    29.6    11.6    15.3    41.5   54,580
Water & Housing          4   96.7    62.0    34.7    15.2       2.5     2.6      7.2    16.4   16,610
Industrial Manufacturing  13   37.1    9.5    27.6    44.0      5.4    14.6    19.6    12.3   16,321
Agriculture              9   12.8      8.3     4.5     6.4    -1.2    -9.4   -26.7   -18.8   9,550
Services                11   12.3      4.1     8.2    20.4      1.1     8.9    13.4      5.4    5,122
Subtotal             60 1,416.0   775.5   640.5   740.1   101.8      7.2    15.9    13.8  295,306
Financial Indicators     5 1,407.1  1,304.4   102.7   144.1    24.5             23.9    17.0  41,342
Total                65 2,823.1  2,079.9   743.2   884.2   126.3                            336,648
Source: Government of Thailand.
State enterprises grew rapidly during the 1970s and early 1980s when their share
of investment in GDP nearly doubled to 3.5 percent of GDP in the space of a decade. By
the mid-1980s, they accounted for about two-thirds of public sector external debt and
over 70 percent of total public sector investment. After a period of consolidation in the
late 1980s, the Thai government embarked on a massive effort to overcome infrastructure
bottlenecks through public spending, and public enterprise investment surged to over 4
percent of GDP in the early 1990s. The boom in state enterprise investment -mainly in
power, rails and telecommunication-peaked in 1995 with a 21.4 percent annual increase,
and then tapering off in 10.4 percent in 1996. By that time, investment projects of several
state enterprises faced bottlenecks and delays in bidding and costs of land acquisition.



- 84-                          ANNEX 4
Financial Performance and Budget Contribution
The public enterprise sector is a cash cow in Thailand. The rate of return on assets
before income taxes averaged 7 percent in 1996 and 16 percent on net assets. Aggregate
before-tax SOE profits have hovered about 2-3 percent of GDP. Public monopolies-the
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, the Telephone Organization of Thailand
and the Provincial Electricity Authority-are the most profitable public enterprises, and
energy and communications account for 80 of total profits of the state enterprise sector.
Lossmaikers are frms subjected to price controls, particularly the transport sector (State
Railways and Bangkok Mass Transit Authority). Nonetheless, losses of even these
companies have been relatively limited, amounting to only about 0.1 percent of GDP
annually.
Contributions to the state budget increased steadily over the last years, largely
reflecting increased revenues from EGAT, the telephone companies and the proceeds of
privatizations. During the high growth period over the last few years, the rise in absolute
SOE contributions remained roughly stable as overall government revenues multiplied.
State enterprises have relied on high self-financing ratios to cover investment.
They have financed roughly three-quarters of their investment. Total borrowing has held
roughly flat during the 1 990s, and fallen as a share of GDP.
The Government's Reform Program for Public Enterprise
The Government wants to improve the efficiency of the public enterprise sector.
The macroeconomic program implies that state enterprises' current operating surpluses
will have to cover all of their investment. This is to be achieved through cutting back or
delaying implementation of low priority investments, and seeking private sector
participation in the investment programs of power-generation projects, expressways and
other projects. This will be done on the basis of a comprehensive review of public
investment. Also, utility tariffs and other SOE prices are to be increased to cover costs of
provision, including depreciation, with the exception of bus and rail fares.
The recent economic crisis and the subsequent IMF financing package has
provided the impetus for moving ahead with a comprehensive program of public
enterprise reform. To regain investor confidence and promote more competition in
infrastruLcture markets, the Government is creating a new partnership of the public and
private sector by addressing the interface of privatization, concessioning and market
deregulation. The Government is currently preparing an agenda for reforming and
divesting public enterprises at an accelerated pace over the next few years. The
Government is actively discussing a program to reform state enterprises through
liquidation, sales to joint ventures, and partial or full equity privatization (i.e. sale of
more than 50 percent of public sector shares).



- 85 -                          ANNEX 4
How SOEs can Improve Efficiency
The government is placing the reforn of SOEs in the broader context of
improving the enabling environment for the private sector in order to lower the cost of
infrastructure development and to increase to effectiveness of asset management.
Specifically, it aims at increasing the performance of enterprises in which the
Government will continue to have an equity share for the time being through three
coordinated measures: (a) change management incentives by stepping up competitive
pressure; (b) establish clear accountability by strengthening corporate governance; and
(c) access best international practice by inviting strategic partners. It will also be
important to create an appropriate legal foundation by adopting the Corporatization
Law and ascertaining the need for corresponding changes in legislation and charters that
established specific SOEs, in order to ensure their high-quality privatization.
The key prongs of the reform program are therefore fourfold:
* infrastructure market deregulation;
* privatization, on a strategic and a fast track
* strengthening of regulatory oversight;
* institutional development
Cross-Sectoral Regulatory Frameworks
Constraints on public resources have prompted the Government to turn more
decisively to the private sector for financing infrastructure needs. To mobilize private
capital at attractive rates, the Government is in the process of setting up regulatory
frameworks that protect state interests while minimizing uncertainty and hence risks for
investors. These frameworks for private infrastructure would establish clear rules on
*  which infrastructure sectors are open to private sector participation;
*  which agency is responsible for approving private projects and contracts;
*  competitive bidding, including the scope of any exceptions;
*  determining tariff adjustments; contract amendments and termination; and
* recourse to international arbitration.
In establishing cross-sectoral frameworks, the role of the law needs to be
considered in the following areas: (a) removing existing barriers to private sector
participation; (b) improving the project approval process; (c) providing other assurances
to private investors; (d) removing other gaps or uncertainties in the legal environment;
and (e) broader private infrastructure promotion programs.
Organizational Structure
Under the Prime Minister Office's Regulation on State Enterprise Policy
Management Monitoring of December 19, 1997, responsibility for state enterprise
improvement and the privatization program rests with the State Enterprise Policy



-86 -                           ANNEX 4
Conmission (SEPC). The SEPC is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and includes
ministers and heads of the concerned agencies, including the Finance Minister, the
Secretary General of NESDB, the Secretary General of the Budget Bureau, the Auditor
General, the Permanent Secretary for Finance, the Comptroller General and six experts
from the private sector (see attachment). The Permanent Secretary for Finance serves as
the secretary to SEPC and the day-to-day implementation of commission decisions rests
with the Office of the Secretary to SEPC. Effective and competent staff support to this
secretariat office is a key factor the success in implementing the Government's
privatization program. This responsibility has been assigned to the Office of the State
Enterprise and Government Portfolio at the Comptroller General's Department, and the
Office of the NESDB. The responsibilities and staff of this office will ibe transferred to
the new Department of State Enterprises in the Ministry of Finance, which will have a
staff of about 70-80.
Role of the State
The Thai Government is preparing to retreat from the role of virtually exclusive
fmancier, manager and operator of state enterprises and key infrastructure services.
Action programs are being prepared to broaden and deepen the scope for private
involvement, both through privatization and concession agreements. Transforming the
Thai government into an effective facilitator and regulator of infrastructure services
provided by private investors involves key reforms. Existing institutions need to be
better-focused and strengthened, and new institutions need to be established. An
effective strategy also requires a mechanism to ensure proposed private participation in a
new public-private partnership is consistent with the Government's broader development
objectives. With the economic crisis in East Asia, attracting private investment in
privatization and new projects will be more difficult and costly than in the recent past. A
strong regulatory foundation is essential to mitigate private investor risk related to: (a)
uncertainty over the approval process; (b)concerns over consistent application of rules
governing tariff adjustments, service quality standards, and investment targets; (c)
inefficient allocation of risks and distorting incentives; and (d) ambiguities about the
rights and obligations of the parties, to be determined on a case-by-case basis.



-87 -                                  ANNEX 4
TABLE 2: PUBLIC ENTERPRISES AND NONFINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR OPERATIONS
1990/91     1991/92     1992/93     1993/94    1994/95     1995/96
(B billion)
Total Revenue & Grants        566.6       607.9        671.9       795.4      927.5      1,060.2
Public Enterprises             72.2        78.2         73.7       97.0       120.0       139.2
%                              12.7        12.9         11.0        12.2       12.9        13.1
Total Expenditure             470.0       564.0        642.9       730.9      826.9       960.7
Current Expenditure           282.7       322.6        371.5       406.8      454.6       503.1
Capital Expenditure           187.3       240.7        272.0       327.7      377.7       448.7
Public Enterprises             99.2       120.4        127.7       122.0      148.1       163.6
%                              53.0        50.0         46.9        37.2       39.2        36.5
(Percent of GDP)
Overall Public Sector Balance   4.0         1.6          0.9         1.8        2.5         2.2
Total Revenue & Grants         23.3        22.1         21.8        22.8       23.0        23.3
Public Enterprises              3.0         2.8          2.4         2.8        3.0         3.1
Total Expenditure              19.4        20.5         20.9        20.9       20.5        21.2
CurrentExpenditure             11.6        11.7         12.1        11.7       11.3        11.1
Capital Expenditure             7.7         8.8          8.8         9.4        9.4         9.9
Public Enterprises              4.1         4.4          4.1         3.5        3.7         3.6
TABLE 3: OPERATIONS OF STATE ENTERPRISES
(B million)
State Enterprises by Economic Category         Profits *                   Tax Contribution
(no.)                                        1995      1996             1995            1996
Power (6)                               45,669         55,264          12,635          16,446
Transport and Communications (16)       32,531         35,162          15,287          17,314
Manufacturing (12)                       5,429          5,562           3,911           4,452
Agriculture                              -152             -36               8               3
Others,                                  7,272          6,827           5,447           5,518
- including Lottery Bureau              4,612          4,765           4,297           4,338
Total (47)                              90,749        102,779          37,288          43,733
Source: BOT
Notes: figures in parentheses stand for the number of enterprises;
* before submitting revenues to Government and before corporate income taxes



- 88 -                                   ANNEX 4
TABLE 4: STATE ENTERPRISE CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCING
(B million)
1992          1993          1994          1995          1996
Capital Expenditure               120,365       127,751       121,989       148,113       163,569
Sources of Funds (1+2)            120,365       127,751       121,989       148,113       163,569
1. Revenues                       86,238        92,927         75,408       110,845       126,944
-Net profits aftertax              67,879        69,522        75,315        88,319        99,793
plus: depreciations                26,877        32,759        36,881        40,713        47,379
other revenues                    29,395        30,842        48,458        60,120         63,252
minus:  income  remitted  to      27,194         29,859        31,372        37,288        43,733
Governmnent
Bonuses                             4,699         5,077         7,135         6,140          7,129
Other expenditure                   6,020         5,260        46,739        34,879        32,618
2. Borrowing                      34,127         34,824        46,581        37,268        36,625
Net foreign borrowing              16,233          -759         1,347         9,386         10,642
Net domestic borrowing             17,894        35,583        45,234        27,882        25,983
Source: BOT.



ANNEX 5: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio as of May 31, 1998
Difference Between
expected and actual        Last ARPP
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements /a       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit No.      Year              Borrower                      Purpose             IBRD        IDA       Cancel.     Undisb.   Orig Frm Rev'd          Dev Obj      Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 112
Active Loans
TH-PE-4787      IBRD 34460        1992   KINGDOM OF TIIAILAND           H'WAY IV                         177.50      0.00        13.03       7.10     20.15        3.94      HS            S
TH-PE-4796      IBRD 35980        1993    METRO ELEC AUTIIORITY         DISTRIB. SYS & EGY E             109.00      0.00        0.00       18.30     18.28       11.46       S            S
TH-PE-4802      IBRD38890         1995   B3ANGCHAKPETROLEUMPCL  CLEANFUELS&EAQUA                          90.00      0.00        0.00       74.57     50.90        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-4799      IBRD 3884A        1995    EGAT                          LAM TAKHONG PUMP STO              70.47      0.00        0.00       60.97     24.29        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-4797      IBRD 3799A        1995   PETROLEUM AUTHORITY            SECOND GAS TRANSMISS               2.00      0.00        0.00        2.00     44.58         .34       S            S
TH-PE-4801     IBRD 37980         1995   PROV ELEC AUTHORITY            DISTRIBUT.SYSTEMREI               50.00      0.00        0.00        7.91      6.90        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-4803     IBRD37970          1995   RTG                            LANDTITLINGIII                   118.10      0.00        0.00       71.46     27.32        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-4793     IBRD 40530         1996    GOVT OF THAILAND              TECHNICAL EDUCATION               31.60      0.00        0.00       31.60     12.34        0.00       S            S                                          00
TH-PE-4791     IBRD 40520         1996    GOVT OF THAILAND              SEC.EDUC. QUALITYIM               81.90      0.00        0.00       81.90     19.34        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-4800      IBRD 39680        1996    GOV. OF THAILAND              HIGHWAYS V                       150.00      0.00        0.00      149.65    112.65         1.10      S            S
TH-PE-37086    IBRD 41990         1997   METROPOLITAN                   N METROPOL'N DIST REIN           145.00      0.00        0.00      134.71     -8.62        0.00       S            S
ELECTRICITY
TH-PE-4805     IBRD 41600         1997    GOVT OF THAILAND              UNIVER SCI & ENG.EDU             143.40      0.00        0.00      143.40     20.00        0.00       S            S
TH-PE-42268    IBRD 40670         1997   PEA                            DISTR AUTOM & RELIA              100.00      0.00        0.00       98.17     34.67         -.36      S            S
TH-PE-54799    IBRD 42880         1998                                  ECOMGTIMPLEASSIST                 15.00      0.00        0.00       15.00      0.00        0.00
TH-PE-53616    IBRD 42330         1998                                  FIN SEC IMPL ASST                 15.00      0.00        0.00       13.14     -1.85        0.00
Total                                                                                                1,298.97      0.00       13.03     909.88    380.95        16.48
Active Loans           Closed Loans                  Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                                392.66                  4,543.25                  4,935.91
of which has been repaid:                                    9.93                  3,102.72                  3,112.65
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                              1,326.13                  1,448.08               . 2,774.21
Amount sold            :                                         0.00                    196.73                    196.73
Of which repaid       :                                        0.00                    196.73                    196.73
Total Undisbursed        :                                     909.88                      7.26                    917.14
/a  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
/b  Following the FY94 Annual Review  of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system  was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U    unsatisfactory, HU                                      highly         X
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



- 90 -                             ANNEX4
B. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio as of April 30, 1998
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
FY                               IFC                            IFC
Approval      Company       Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic    Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1979/81/84/ Siam City        20.00    0.00   0.00   55.00    20.00    0.00   0.00   55.00
87/91
1984/91    SEAVI Thailand      0.00    1.50   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50   0.00    0.00
1987/96    HMC Polymers        0.00    3.92    .71    0.00    0.00    3.92    .71    0.00
1988       Peroxythai          5.02    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.02    0.00   0.00    0.00
1989       SCB-CKAP           0.00    .41   0.00    0.00      0.00     .41   0.00    0.00
1989       SCB-Thai Baroda    0.00    .78   0.00    0.00      0.00     .78   0.00    0.00
1989       TFB-Ladprao        0.00    .33   0.00    0.00      0.00     .33   0.00    0.00
1989       TFB-Top Easy       0.00    .15   0.00    0.00      0.00     .15   0.00    0.00
1990       Siam Asahi         0.00    7.64   0.00    0.00     0.00    6.37   0.00    0.00
1990/95    Shin Ho Paper      13.75    7.54   0.00   21.13    13.75    7.54   0.00   21.13
1991       Bank of Asia-AL    17.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991       VIM Thailand       0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991/93/96  Ayudhya Leasing   0.00    1.50   0.00    0.00     0.00    1.50   0.00    0.00
1992       Krung Thai IBJ     0.00     .35   0.00    0.00     0.00    .35   0.00    0.00
1993       Advance Agro       10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1993       Bumrungrad        25.00    2.24   0.00   29.00    25.00    2.24   0.00   29.00
1993       Central Hotel       0.00   13.95   0.00    0.00    0.00   13.95   0.00    0.00
1993       Samui Beach        2.57    0.00   0.00    4.29     2.57    0.00   0.00    4.29
1993       Star Petroleum    100.00    0.00   0.00  332.50   100.00    0.00   0.00  332.50
1993       Sukhontha           1.71    0.00   0.00    4.29    1.71    0.00   0.00    4.29
1993       TUNTEX             11.70    4.92   0.00  109.55    11.70    4.92   0.00  109.55
1994       Dhana Siam        24.15    0.00   0.00    3.71    24.15    0.00   0.00    3.71
1994       Vinythai          35.93    0.00   0.00   47.93    35.93    0.00   0.00   47.93
1995       Finance One       30.00    0.00   0.00  132.40    30.00    0.00   0.00  132.40
1995       Saha Farms        25.00    9.90  10.00   25.00    25.00    9.90  10.00   25.00
1995       UPOIC              0.00    1.08   0.00    0.00     0.00    1.08   0.00    0.00
1995/96    BTSC              50.00    9.83   9.83    0.00    21.32    9.83   9.83    0.00
1996       NFS               30.00    0.00   0.00  250.00    30.00    0.00   0.00  190.00
1996       Thai Petrochem     80.00    0.00  20.00  400.00    76.67    0.00  20.00  383.33
1997       Phatra Thanakit   22.79    0.00   0.00    0.00    11.39    0.00   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          505.12   66.04  40.54 1,414.80   444.21   64.77  40.54 1,338.13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996       ADLC II            10.00    0.00   0.00   15.00
1998       BTSC II           30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1998       HMC RI II          0.00    1.84   0.00    0.00
1996      NFS                 10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997       PHATRA             0.00    0.00   0.00   13.04
Total Pending Commitment:  50.00    1.84   0.00   28.04



-91-                                                ANNEX 4
ANNEX 6: THAILAND AT A GLANCE
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                East  middle-    F
Thailand      Asia  income    ! Developmentdiamond
Population mid-1 996 (millions)                        60.1      1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             3,020       890    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               177.3      1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          0.9        1.3      1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                                         1.3        1.3      1.8      per                            Gpnmary
Most recent estimate (Iatestyear available since 1989)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               13
Urban population (% of total population)                 20        31        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69        68      , 67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 35        40        41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               13
Access to safe water (% 0f population)                   81         77
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      6         17                      - Thailand
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    87        117      104
Male                                                   ..       120       105          -      Lower-middle-income gnoup
Female                                                 ..       116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratlos
GDP (billions USS)                            14.9     38.9      168.4    185.0
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 26.7     28.2       41.8     41.6              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             18.4     23.2       41.7     38.6              O
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    22.1     25.5       36.2     35.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    22.7     24.2       34.8     33.7
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.1     -4.0       -8.0     -7.9
Interest payments/GDP                          0.7      2.3        1.8      1.2      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                12.5     45.1       50.6     49.9
Total debt servicelexports                    12.0     31.9       11.6     11.4
Present value of debtlGDP                        ..
Present value of debtlexports                   ..                                               Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual gtowth)                                         .Thailand
GDP                                   6.5      9.6      8.7        5.5        .Lower-middle-income gup
GNP per capita                        4.1      8.3      7.7        4.6        -         -
Exports of goods and services         9.5     15.9     14.8        2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                   26.9     15.8       10.8     10.7   I 40
Industry                                      25.8     31.8       39.4     39.8     30
Manufacturing                                18.7     21.9      28.5      28.6     20
Services                                      47.3     52.3       49.7     49.5      10                  _
Prvate consumption                            67.6     61.0       54.4     55.1             91   92   93   94   95   95
General government consumption                10.3     13.5        9.5      9.6                     GDI      OGDP
Imports of goods and services                 23.0     25.9       47.4     44.3
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual grovth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                    4.1      4.0        3.2      3.0      25
Industry                                       7.9     12.6       11.3      7.7      20
Manufacturing                                 7.0     12.8      12.4       7.3    is
Services                                       6.7      9.1        7.7      6.0     10
Private consumption                            5.2      8.3        8.3      6,3      s-
General government consumption                 9.1      4.5        0.8      4.4      o i-_, 
Gross domestic investment                      8.1     15.3       13.6      7.4             91   92   93   94   95    95
Imports of goods and services                  6.2     17.6       16.9      2.8    I           -Exports    O-,mports
Gross national product                         6.3      9.5        8.4      5.4
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incompiete.



- 92 -                                               ANNEX4
Thailand
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% chinge)                                                                           -
Consumer prices                                5.3      2.5        5.8      5.9
Implicil. GDP deflator                         3.5      2.2        6.2      5.1
Government finance                                                                  2
(% of GOP,)                                                                         o  
(% of GDP)                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91  92  93    94    95   9e
Current revenue                               12.8      15.4      18.2     18.6
Current budget balance                         1.5     -0.6        7.8      8.3   1GDP def.  C CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       -1.6     -4.9        2.5      2.2
TRADE
(millions US$)                                1975     1985       1995     1996      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                          2,208    7,121     56,444   55,721      80,000 -
Primary Goods                                  ..       ..    9,679    9,598       70,000 -
Rice                                         287      829       1,962    2,012    S60000s 
Manufactures                                   ,,   2,920    46,445   45,653       50,500 T
Total imports (cif                               .    9,248    71,493   72 768       40,00-
Food                                           ..     348      1,489    1,660       0:0".
Fuel and energy                                ..    2,696     4,672    6,248      2.0
Capital goods er                                     2,598    32,716   33,822        o 0l
Export price index (1987=100)                            73        139      138             90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                            72        154      153    .              r Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                               101         90       9o
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,780    9,100    70,590   71,725
Imports of goods and services                3,478   10,160    82,169   83,617       1 I
Resource balance                              -698   -1,060    -11,579  -11,892
Net income                                      181    -643     -2,114   -3,257      3 4
Net current transfers                           80      15         47       780      4
Current account balance,                                                            - 
beforn official capital transfers           -607   -1,537    -13,206  -14,369      7
Financing items (net)                          555    1,620    20,442   16,538      -
Changes in net reserves                         52      -82     -7,236   -2,169      9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (miDl. US$)          2,008    3,003    34,976   38,551
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   20.4      27.2      25.5     25.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996      C
(million.s USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,865   17,552    83,166   90,812                      A   B      D
IBRD                                         270    2,202      1,805    1,607                    1607       1277
IDA                                            4      105        102      100                                  E
Total debt service                             357    3,263      8,608    8,666                                 7623
IBRCD                                         32      232       336       318          G
IDA                                            0        1          3        3         37613
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               11      120         99      110                .
Official creditors                            93      556       511       634                                     F
Private creditors                            107      956      5,788    9,618                   -4259
Foreign direct investment                     22      163      2,068    2,900                                   42552
Portfolio equity                               0       44      2,154    1,551
World Bank program
Commitments                                   95      113        190      250      A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 44      285        146      138      B-IDA     D-Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          13       75       203       198      c - IMF                      G - Short-ternm
Net flows                                     31      210        -57      -60                                                1
Interest payments                            20       158       136       122
Net tiansfers                                 12       51       -193     -183
Development Economics                                                                                                  6/12/98



