Report No. PID6807
Project Name                     Thailand-Economic and Financial Adjustment...
Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Economic/Financial Management
Project ID                       THPE54801
Borrower                         Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Rama 6 Road
Bangkok 10400, Thailand
Tel.   (66-2) 273-9021
Date this PID prepared           May 7, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           May 8, 1998.
Projected Board Date             July 1998
Background
The proposed adjustment operation is part of the Bank's contribution to
the $17.2 billion pledge made in Tokyo (August 1997) by the international
community in response to Thailand's economic and financial crisis. The Bank's
adjustment operations began with the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan
($350 million) approved by the Board in December 1997. The Government's
commitment to the stabilization program is beginning to bear fruit. The
exchange rate is stabilizing, interest rates are gradually coming down, and
market-led capitalization of financial institutions is taking place.
This stability, however, has not yet stimulated economic recovery. The
economy is in recession and the highly leveraged corporates are mired in
balance sheet losses. Much also remains to be done to complete the
restructuring of financial institutions. The institutional design and
operating rules for the resolution of closed finance companies is at a
critical stage and the market looks to a transparent and rapid sale of assets
estimated at baht 1 trillion. The remaining financial institutions need to be
strengthened to reduce their dependence on liquidity support from the
Financial Institutions Development Fund. Recent direct intervention by the
Bank of Thailand in some open finance companies as well as the small
commercial banks underscores the weak asset base of many financial
institutions. These uncertainties continue to fuel depositors' flight to
quality, exacerbating liquidity problems.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the proposed loan are to help restore macroeconomic
stability and fiscal balance, implement critical financial sector
restructuring (including legal reform, improved measures to ensure financial
accountability, supervision, and corporate governance), and public enterprise
reform, with the aim of restoring investor confidence in the economy and
improving the environment for competitiveness. The program would strongly
complement the macroeconomic stabilization package agreed by the Government



with the IMF.
Project Description
The proposed loan would provide balance of payments assistance to the
Kingdom of Thailand in implementing a program for economic recovery. Building
on the Finance Companies' Restructuring Loan approved by the Board in December
1997, the proposed loan supports government efforts toward restoring investor
confidence and economic recovery by: (i) maintaining a macroeconomic
stabilization program; (ii) supporting corporate recovery; (iii) implementing
a credible program for privatization and public enterprise reform; (iv)
completing the resolution of unviable finance companies and ensuring the
safety and sounds of the financial system; and, (v) strengthening corporate
governance and the legal framework for doing business in Thailand.
Project Financing
A single tranche loan of $400 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness. The closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1998.
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Thailand will be responsible for
monitoring the implementation of the restructuring program with the help of
the Letter of Development Policy, through regular reviews, as well as in the
context of the preparation and supervision of other projects. The Ministry of
Finance and Bank of Thailand will prepare a final report on the progress of
the program within six months after the closing date of the loan, and submit
the report to the Bank.
Project Benefits
The loan will help meet critical foreign exchange needs of the Government
of Thailand to strengthen the capital account. This will boost confidence and
lend stability to the exchange rate. The loan also supports the ongoing
reform of the financial sector. Orderly resolution of the closed finance
companies, restructuring and capitalization of other financial institutions,
and strengthening of supervision will make for healthy bank balance sheets and
a sound capital base to resume lending to the corporate sector. Several of
the reform measures supported by the loan will facilitate corporate
restructuring and will thus strengthen the corporate sector to resume
economic growth. Reform of bankruptcy and foreclosure laws and corporate
governance supported by the loan will restore confidence and bring creditors
back to Thailand. The proposed structural reform will strengthen and help
modernize the business environment in Thailand to support future growth.
Project Risks
Political instability and regional contagion would put the loan at risk
through continued exchange rate instability that would delay economic
recovery. The objectives of the loan would be at risk of the macroeconomic
program falters because the political cost of adjustment is deemed to be too
high. The loan would be at risk if investor confidence is not restored,
corporate workouts do not take place, and corporate failures mount. Another
- 2-



risk would arise from continued weak balance sheets of banks and insufficient
investor confidence to permit private sector led recapitalization of banks.
However, a number of recent developments indicate that these risk are being
mitigated Thailand's current government has a respected economic team that
has reaffirmed its commitment to both macroeconomic stabilization as well as
to a significant restructuring of the economy. The recent revisions in the
macroeconomic framework are leading to more realistic performance targets.
The pressure to take decisive action on economic restructuring is dictated by
the realization that the economic recovery would otherwise be delayed and the
cost of inaction would mount.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation been placed in
Category 'U' and will not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
Not applicable
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 4, 1998.
- 3 -



