Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1439 
Project Name 
MX Access to Land for Young Farmers Pilot 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P088732 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Mexico 
 
Implementing Agency 
Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (or Secretaria de la Reforma 
Agraria or SRA) 
Mexico 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
Updated June 27, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 18, 2005  
Date of Board Approval 
July 26, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Poverty in Mexico remains widespread.  Poverty indicators demonstrate that in 2000, about 53% of its 
national population suffers from income-poverty (defined as those with a per capita consumption level 
below that which is needed to meet basic food and non-food needs). In 2002, 35% of the rural population 
(between 8 to 10 million people) is extremely poor.  
 
In the last decade, Mexico has undertaken major efforts to transform its rural and agricultural sectors, and 
in particular the social sector
1
,
which represents nearly 70% of the rural population and where poverty 
rates are the highest, to try to make it an integral component of a more dynamic economic environment
2
.
However, these efforts have been limited due to, inter alia, the following factors: 
 
·
As a consequence of legal and administrative restrictions combined with a lack of economic 
incentives, the social sector has been characterized by a disproportionately low level of 
1
Social sector overview
 
The social sector includes social lands classified as “ejidos” and “communal lands” representing half of the country's land. These 
lands resulted from the massive land distribution process set forth in the 1917 Mexican Constitution, under which indigenous and 
non-indigenous beneficiaries received rights to a house plot, sole usufruct rights for a parcel of land, and access to communal 
lands subject to collective management decisions. “Ejidos” are those social lands which tenure regime is regulated by the 
Agrarian Law, while “communal lands” are lands regulated by customary based land tenure regimes. 
 
The 1992 reforms focused on modifications of the social sector’s legal environment (e.g., strengthening of ejidos self 
governance, freeing of land rentals and internal land sales, end of the land distribution process); institutional changes (e.g., 
creation of Agrarian tribunals, the National Agrarian Registry, and the Agrarian Juridical Bureau), and the implementation of a 
program of land regularization (PROCEDE).  
 
2
“Mexico Land Policy - A Decade after the Ejido Reform.” K. Deininger and I. Lavadenz.  Washington, DC: The World Bank, 
2001. 
Page  2
investment, often unsustainable resource use, atomization of land, and a high level of poverty. A 
2000 survey of ejidatarios (ejido beneficiaries) and private producers found that the average 
capital endowment in ejido lands is significantly lower than that owned by neighboring non-ejido 
producers (Procuradoria Agraria, 2000). The 2001 VII Ejidos Census indicates that only 5% of 
the ejidatarios have their own motor vehicle for productive use. 
 
·
There is a situation in the ejidos where most land rights belong to older people many of whom are 
unable to make efficient use of their land. Young households -- who are more educated and 
potentially more innovative farmers -- suffer from significant land shortages or highly insecure 
land tenure. As a consequence, the social sector is getting older, young people are migrating to 
big cities and the USA. Ejidatarios who are beneficiaries of the PROCEDE
3
regularization 
program are largely (50%) older than 50, and 29% older than 65, whereas only 5% of the 
ejidatarios are 18 to 40. 
 
The remaining legal and administrative restrictions in the social sector continue to be major obstacles to 
the sustained development of 
ejidos
 and communities, together with the lack of access to credit, lack of 
property right (addressed by PROCEDE), asymmetry of information (on legal framework, land prices, 
input/output markets) and technical assistance (which are still skewed in favor of medium-size farmers 
rather than the poorest producers). While further changes in the legal framework of 
ejidos
 remain 
politically very sensitive and difficult to bring about at the present time, the project will address the other 
barriers to the development of the social sector, by supporting the development of a land market and the 
ability to engage in land transactions and productive projects (through the provision of credit, information 
and technical assistance), which will eventually promote more efficient allocation of land and possibly 
enhance a broader access to credit. Annex 10 of the PAD includes a detailed analysis of land market 
distortions and actions to address them through the project. 
GOM priorities and commitment
GOM and particularly the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (
Secretaria de la Reforma Agraria
,
SRA) are 
highly conscious of the aging problem and the opportunities for enhancing rural development represented 
by young rural workers. They have decided to make an effort to help rejuvenate and revitalize the 
countryside and invest in this more dynamic young segment of the population endowed with more human 
capital.  
Action on these fronts has already started. In 2004, Hacienda budgeted an amount of Mx$270 million for 
an access to land for young farmers program
4
,
to be implemented by SRA, that would allow young 
farmers (between 18
–39) from the social sector to have access to underutilized but potentially more 
productive lands
 
and implement productive on- farm and off- farm activities on these lands. The intention 
is to use the budgetary resources allocated to carry out pilot experiences flexible enough to test different 
models of access to land and investment resources.  
 
3
The purpose of PROCEDE (Programa Nacional de Certificación de los Derechos Ejidales y Solares Urbanos, the National 
Certification Program of Ejido Rights and Urban Lots) is to resolve boundary conflicts, regularize land tenure, delineate ejidos 
and individual parcels boundaries and issue property rights in ejidos and communal lands. This program, which started in 1993, is 
demand driven and free. It allows beneficiaries to choose their property rights regime and eventually documents rights to a house 
plot, sole usufruct rights for a parcel of land, and access to communal lands subject to collective management decisions.  
 
4
The official name of this program is Programa del Joven Emprendedor Rural y Fondo de Tierra (Young Rural Entrepreneur and 
Land Fund Program) that is operating under operations rules approved by SHCP and COFEMER and published in the Official 
Gazette (last version dated February 18, 2005). 
Page  3
2. Objectives  
 
The project development objective is to support the access of young rural 
sujetos agrarios
5
with 
entrepreneurial potential to land and other productive assets within selected states, through the 
establishment of a beneficiary-driven, efficient land transaction model, while at the same time facilitating 
the access of senior landholders to social welfare schemes. 
To achieve this, the project will support the GOM in piloting mechanisms that will: 
(i) on the one hand, allow landless young rural entrepreneurs to receive training and technical 
assistance, to acquire or rent underutilized and potentially more productive land, and implement 
productive and environmentally sustainable on- and off-farm investment projects that 
significantly increase their income and welfare, and 
(ii) on the other hand, help older 
ejidatarios
 or 
comuneros
 who transfer their lands to access 
social welfare schemes. 
Once the above mechanisms will have been successfully piloted and refined throughout project 
implementation, they will be scaled up to reach a broader group of beneficiaries in the social sector.    
Project design will pay specific attention to the participation and inclusion of indigenous people in the 
process, including an IPDP, since they are an important part of the project beneficiary groups.    
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is uniquely placed to assist the GOM given its experience on land policies and programs 
worldwide. Project design will take into account lessons from three countries in the region where Bank 
supported access to land programs are under implementation - Brazil, Guatemala and Honduras- and also 
from experiences outside the region such as in Malawi and India.  
The proposed project is the natural and ideal continuation of the Bank involvement in land and rural 
poverty reduction in Mexico. The project would build on a body of analytical work carried out by the 
Bank in Mexico which started way before the 1992 Constitutional reform and which more recent pieces 
include: (i) the 2001 Land Policy ESW, (ii) an international conference in December 2003 to review 
access to land in different countries; (iii) an on-going analytical study based on field work in selected 
ejidos
 and 
comunidades 
to better understand barriers and incentives to land access, (iv) a rural 
development strategy for Mexico analytical study, and (iv) planned assistance and possible loan on urban 
property rights (FY06). 
 
Finally, the Bank Land Acquisition Committee has authorized the use of project funds to acquire land as 
per the Bank's new expenditure eligibility policy (OP/BP 6.0) approved by the Board in April 2004. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project has 3 components: 
 
5
Ejidatarios, Avecindados, Posesionarios
 and 
Comuneros, 
including indigenous peoples, as described in Footnote 
1, Paragraph A 1. 
Page  4
Capacity Building of Young Rural Entrepreneurs and Assistance to Senior Landholders
.
This component 
will provide the beneficiaries with the knowledge and abilities including financial management skills 
required to elaborate and carry out a productive project in relation to land. At the same time, it will 
promote their participation in a demonstration productive project and disseminate information and 
provide technical assistance for access to social welfare schemes to senior landholders 
 
Land Transactions and Productive Projects
.
This component promotes the secure and sustainable access 
to land by qualified young rural entrepreneurs who will implement a productive project to sustainably 
raise their income. The support will be given in form of a combination of credits and grants and will 
include technical assistance. At the same time it will promote the inclusion of senior landholders in social 
welfare programs offered by the GOM 
Project management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
Project management will include day-to-day 
project management but will specifically focus on three issues. First, the project will pay attention to 
inter-institutional coordination so as to improve synergies with other related programs targeted to the 
social sector. Second, given the pilot nature of the project, specific attention will be paid to the 
Monitoring & Evaluation system so as to develop a results-based improvement mechanism. Third, project 
management will develop mentoring mechanisms to better accompany the JERs in the identification and 
implementation of their productive projects and to ensure their participation.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 30.2 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
125 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) is the executing agency of the project. SRA will implement 
the project through its General Directorate of Agrarian Policy and Planning (DGPPA), situated under 
SRA’s Under-Secretariat of Public Agrarian Policy (SPPA).  
DGGPA will carry out the main subcomponents of the project with the assistance of the National Trust 
Fund for the Development of the 
Ejido
 Sector (FIFONAFE), a financially autonomous parastatal trust 
fund established under SRA.  
7. Sustainability 
 
This Bank–financed loan supports a national program already under implementation and which is a 
central piece of the 2003 
Acuerdo Nacional para el Campo
.
Country ownership of the project, 
particularly given the non-additionality of project financing, is evident. Likewise, there is a commitment, 
based upon success of the pilot project, to scale up the pilot to other states to cover the entire social sector 
as quickly as possible. 
Second, the financial analysis of individual farm models confirms the economic and financial 
sustainability of off- and on-farm operations established under the project. However, quality of screening 
mechanisms for land acquisition, productive investments, environmental sustainability, and beneficiaries 
is essential to ensure the actual projected return of planned investments. 
Page  5
Third, the institutional arrangement being piloted, in which SRA and FIFONAFE work with experienced 
public or private financing agencies, will allow a sound financial mechanism including risk-sharing 
mechanisms and a sophisticated guarantee system. This will ensure the financial sustainability of the 
model and the medium-term recovery of the credits. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
One key lesson learned from other land-based rural development projects and highlighted in a recent 
World Bank report
6
is that distributing land alone, unaccompanied by credit and technical assistance, does 
little to increase rural income. This was reflected in the project design whereby young rural entrepreneurs 
will receive financial support to purchase or rent (usufruct rights over) lands as well as for complementary 
training, technical assistance, and productive investment. 
Another lesson learned from 
Oportunidades
,
Mexico’s cash transfer program to rural areas, is the 
importance of an efficient and sophisticated M&E system. This is important in the context of a pilot 
project which has a learning-by-doing nature. Therefore, specific attention has been paid to the design of 
the project’s M&E system, including the participation of an expert who will help to design and implement 
the 
Oportunidades
’
M&E system, and the establishment of a national baseline to be carried out in the first 
year of the pilot project. The efficiency of screening land quality, the viability of productive projects and 
their environmental sustainability, and the eligibility of the beneficiaries will be closely monitored. 
However, the best practices and lessons learned in similar projects in the region, especially in relation to 
debt/equity ratios, beneficiaries’ contributions, and investment ceilings point to major challenges in the 
current pilot project which will merit special attention. The international experience shows that a high 
debt/equity ratio, such as the one foreseen in the present rules of operation
7
of the ongoing program, as 
well as high loan ceilings (individual young farmers can receive up to MXN400,000 in the current 
program) tend to overestimate the capacity of many young farmers—generally not acquainted with 
handling such large amounts of money—to pay back the loans. In addition, experience from other 
projects worldwide suggests that a well identified financial contribution by the farmer limits the risks in 
this respect. Presently, the GOM does not require any contribution from the young farmers other than the 
presentation of a viable project although loans are to be guaranteed by inputs to the productive project and 
land rights. 
It is expected that the project design will be adjusted and best practices taken into consideration and 
piloted during project implementation, with a view to introducing changes into the rules of operation on 
the basis of the lessons learned. Even though the GOM has indicated that it will introduce some changes 
in the next rules of operation—to be presented in September 2005—to reflect the above-mentioned best 
practices, some risks remain high if further improvements are not included (see risk matrix below). In 
light of this, the project’s rules of operation, which may be changed on an annual basis, will take into 
account the lessons learned during implementation and in other land projects. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) (to be updated from final PAD) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
6
“Beyond the City: The rural contribution to development.” D. De Ferranti, G. Perry, W. Foster, D. Lederman, and 
A. Valdés. Washington: World Bank 2005.  
 
7
Reglas de Operaciones
,
or Rules of Operation, approved by SHCP and COFEMER, which determine the general 
principles and budget under which the program operates. These Rules of Operation are complemented by a detailed 
process manual prepared by FIFONAFE’s technical subcommittee. 
Page  6
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[X ] 
[] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[X] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X] [] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
X] [ 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
The safeguard screening category of the project is S2. As a category B project, a focused environmental 
assessment (EA) was prepared in accordance with OP 4.01. The EA found that the project’s 
environmental impacts could be managed through procedures set forth in an Environmental Management 
Plan (EMP). The EA and EMP have been publicly consulted during appraisal, and made available in 
country and the Bank’s InfoShop prior to appraisal. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
Government’s project documents 
2. 
Detailed project cost tables 
3. Procurement plan 
4. Environmental analysis 
5. Social analysis 
6.  Land market study 
7. Economic analysis 
8.  Indigenous Peoples Development Plan 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Frederic de Dinechin 
 
 
Jose Maria Caballero 
Title: Sr. Land Administration Specialist  
Lead Agriculture Economist 
Tel: 1 (202) 473 7873 
 
 
 
Phone: +52 55 5480 4250 
Fax: 1 (202) 522-0262 
 
 
 
Fax. 52 55 5480 4222 
Email: 
fdedinechin@worldbank.org
E-mail: 
jcaballero@worldbank.org
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
