Report No. PID4531
Project Name                     Mali-Integrated Health Sector   (@)
Development Program
Region                           Western Africa
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       MLPE40652
Borrower                         Government of Mali
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Health, Solidarity and the
Elderly
(MSHE)
Koulouba - Bamako
Tel:    223-22-53-01 (02)
Fax:    223-23-02-03
Date PID Prepared                December 9, 1996
Date PID Revised                 August 12, 1998
Appraisal Date                   June 16, 1998
Projected Board Date             October 27, 1998
Country and Sector Background
Mali has made definite progress in improving the health status of its
population over the past two decades. The crude death rate decreased from 26
in 1970 to 19 in 1994, and infant mortality was reduced from 200 to 123 per
1,000 live births during the same period. However, despite these substantial
improvements, the country's health indicators still remain among the worst in
the world. Life expectancy at birth is a mere 47 years and maternal mortality
is about 577 per 100,000 live births. As in most sub-saharan countries, the
main health problems are infectious and parasitic diseases, with malaria,
measles, tetanus, acute respiratory infections, and diarrhea as the leading
causes of death. Along with preventable diseases, malnutrition remains a
serious problem (almost one third of children under five are ill-fed and one
fourth of infants under the age of six months has signs of malnutrition). In
addition, the increasing prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
and HIV infections represents another serious health risk.
The built-in momentum for continued population growth resulting from the
combination of high fertility (averaging 7 children per woman in 1995) and the
very young age structure of the population places a heavier burden on an
already fragile health system and is a contributing factor to the population's
ill health, particularly that of women and children. Mali's population is
growing at the rate of 3% p.a. and the cohorts of those under 20 years of age
represent 50 % of the total population.   Projections based on optimistic
declines in fertility suggest that the population will double within the next
20 years to reach an estimated 20.4 million by 2020. Low school enrollment of
girls, and difficulties in overcoming the gender-based constraints to the
integration of women in the economy have kept fertility levels high. The
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR), a main determinant of fertility decline,
has only slightly increased during the past five years from 1% in 1990 to 5.8%
in 1995, warranting a special effort to improve both the supply and demand for
family planning.



Project Objectives
The overall development objective of the proposed operation will be to
help the government of Mali improve the health of the population with a focus
on meeting the health needs of the underserved segments of the population and
accelerate the country's demographic transition toward slower population
growth. To do this, the project will focus on: (i) expanding access to basic
health care, including reproductive health services; (ii) strengthening the
institutional capacity for health system management; and (iii) developing
sustainable financing schemes for health sector development with safety nets
for the poor.
Project Description
The Integrated Health Sector Development Program would have three major
components: (i) Expanding access to affordable, good quality, preventive and
curative services; (ii) Strengthening the health system management
capabilities; (iii) Developing sustainable financing schemes for health
sector development with safety nets for the poor.
The five-year program will provide sector-wide support, building on
achievements and lessons-learned under the ongoing Health, Population and
Rural Water Supply Project (Cr.2217-MLI). It will strengthen MSHE capacity-
building and administrative restructuring efforts at central, regional and
district levels, through activities aimed at improving staff skills in
administrative and budgeting functions.
The national health sector reform agenda is summarized in three
Government documents (Document d' Orientation politique, 1996; Plan decennal
de dbveloppement socio-sanitaire, 1997; and Programme d'Investissement
sectoriel). These documents cover reforms for the health system management at
all levels, including institutional reforms such as the restructuring of the
ministry's central and regional administration, hospital management,
management information systems, the integration of activities under the
endemic disease control programs, the pharmaceutical sub-sector, and health
financing and safety nets for the poor. While the Bank and other donors are
expected to continue to play a key role in policy dialogue and in monitoring
implementation of the reform agenda, MHSE will take the lead in implementing
its ten-year plan and strategies. Donor support will aim at strengthening the
MHSE planning, programming and administrative capacities with a focus on
financial analysis and budgeting, procurement, auditing and program monitoring
and evaluation.
Project Financing
The program costs are roughly estimated at US$ 400 million over the five-
year implementation period excluding private sector investments. This
financing should cover most of the public expenditures in the sector including
investments.
The MHES/DAF would be responsible for the program's administrative and
financial management and reporting. The MHES/DAF would be provided with the
necessary technical assistance resources to strengthen its operational
capabilities. The financial management information system would be
computerized and would allow the monitoring of expenditures per category per
technical program, per set of managerial activities and for each level of
implementation (central, regional and district levels). Government will
establish regional and district accounts for recurrent expenses.
Project Implementation
The Secretary General of the ministry would provide policy guidance and
- 2-



overall program oversight. A small support and coordination unit would be
established at the general secretariat office to help with donor coordination
and program implementation monitoring. The Directorate of Public Health (DPH)
would be responsible for technical support and specific program monitoring and
evaluation. Financial and human resources management would be carried out by
the Directorate of Administration and Finance (DAF). This would include
budget consolidation, financial reporting and auditing arrangements, and the
establishment of management system procedures. At the regional level,
Regional Health Directorates would be accountable for the execution of
critical support services and priority programs while the District Health
Management team would be responsible for the implementation of programs and
good quality, affordable care and services.
Project Sustainability
More efficient management of human, material and financial resources and
a better coordination of donor support will enable the sector to improve the
quality and reliability of health services and their cost effectiveness. The
mobilization of additional financing sources using cross subsidies, more
equitable application of user-fees for hospital care, and more efficiently
allocated funds will help ensure a more sustainable financial base for the
public health system.
Lessons learned from past operations in the sector
The Bank has financed two health sector operations in Mali since 1984.
The first project (IDA, Cr. 1422-MLI) did not achieve its objectives and was
eventually suspended. The second and ongoing operation ( IDA Cr.2217-MLI),
launched in 1991 and to close in December 1998, taught many important lessons.
It illustrated the importance of beneficiary participation in the definition
of operations and in the development of cost recovery modalities. It showed
the importance of linking safe water provision to the health program. It
demonstrated the acceptability of generic drugs, the willingness of
communities to pay for basic health care, and the capacity of communities to
manage community-owned PHC facilities. On the other hand, the ongoing project
also demonstrated the difficulties in trying to coordinate multiple donors,
the importance of women's participation in community management, the
sensitivities in dealing with human resources issues such as recruitment and
redeployment of personnel, and the difficulties in attracting staff to
community health centers in the absence of a statutory framework for community
personnel. Lessons have also been drawn from similar operations in Ghana,
Senegal, and Mauritania, where it has been found that a more concerted effort
is needed to develop a well-integrated minimum package of basic services at
PHC facilities and first-level referral centers and that more resources need
to be allocated for institutional capacity building.
Poverty Category
The proposed project is sector-wide and will affect the entire
population. Certain activities of the project (such as the safety nets within
financing schemes), however, will deal very specifically with the poorer
sections of the population, so the operation is part of the Program of
Targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
The handling and management of medical waste and hazardous materials
would be assessed during project preparation, and specific recommendations for
waste disposal will be drawn up for implementation. All project financed
construction would include drainage, solid waste disposal and sanitary
-3 -



facilities. The project would thus contribute to reducing environmental risks
and is expected to receive a category C classification.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed project would be a human resource development program, and
inasmuch as it targets vulnerable population groups, it should have a strong
poverty alleviation impact as well.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



