Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7635-SV 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 29, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7635-SV 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 29, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF EL 
SALVADOR (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and fifty million 
Dollars (US$450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
Page  3
2
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal  $200,000,000 (two hundred million Dollars) shall be converted 
from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines.
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of the Program, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
Page  5
4
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on July 22, 2010. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Boulevard de los Héroes 1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile: (503) 2225-7491; (503) 2244-6419 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
By /s/ Eduardo Ayala Grimaldi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under 
 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has implemented tax administration measures to fight tax evasion 
and raise tax revenues, through: (a) the creation of a functional criminal 
investigation unit within the tax administration office (DGII); (b) the 
establishment of a cooperation agreement between DGII and DGA to cross check 
tax collection information; and (c) the creation of a functional internal affairs 
unit, organized within DGII. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has approved an action plan to gradually eliminate the Electricity 
Subsidy for Firms and its implementation has been initiated by cutting said 
subsidy by 40 percent. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has strengthened its public financial management by expanding 
the integrated financial management system (SAFI) to at least 24 entities of the 
central government, 59 decentralized public institutions and 2 public enterprises. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has increased the transparency and efficiency of its public 
procurement system by implementing the public procurement dissemination 
module MODDIV of COMPRASAL in at least 172 governmental agencies and 
municipalities. 
 
5. 
The social protection program 
Red Solidaria
 is fully operative in the poorest 77 
municipalities it targets. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through MINED, has: (a) developed and implemented an 
education quality monitoring system using a standardized learning assessment for 
primary education students; and (b) developed a strategy to address deficiencies 
of non-performing schools, including: (i) a monitoring system for teachers; (ii) a 
peer collaboration program to replicate successful experiences among public 
schools; (iii) enhanced distribution of education material; and (iv) a training 
program for teachers. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has: (a) eliminated tuition and graduation fees for secondary 
education in regular public schools; and (b) has created 20,000 education grants 
(
cupos
)
to pay for alternative secondary education under the EDUCAME 
program. 
 
Page  8
7
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the 
 
Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has made progress towards raising tax revenues as evidenced by: 
(a) the implementation of a new tax on vehicles; (b) the introduction of an ad-
valorem tax on alcoholic beverages; and (c) the installation and operation of x-
ray machines and weight controllers in the Borrower’s customs posts of Acajutla, 
San Bartolo and Comalapa Airport. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has completely eliminated the Electricity Subsidy for Firms.  
 
3. 
The Borrower’s budgetary management has been improved through: (a) the 
introduction of a medium-term budget framework; and (b) the piloting of a 
results-based budgeting methodology, including the use of performance 
indicators linked to budget allocations, in at least two central government 
agencies. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has: (a) issued regulations to enable and promote public access to 
fiscal information; and (b) redesigned and launched an effective fiscal 
transparency portal, including user-friendly applications to access and consult 
information. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has further expanded 
Red Solidaria
 to fully cover its poorest 100 
municipalities. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through MINED, has: (a) implemented a strategy to address non-
performing schools deficiencies in all schools with average grades of 5 points or 
less in the PAESITA Test; and (b) undertaken a special mid-term test for targeted 
non-performing schools to assess progress and improvements. 
 
7. 
After December 31, 2008, the Borrower has: (a) increased the number of 
education grants (
cupos
)
under the EDUCAME program by 10,000; and (b) 
increased by 200 the number of operating classrooms of up to 40 students 
(
secciones
)
for secondary education in public schools. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  9
8
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in two tranches.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the
 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
First Tranche 
 
200,000,000 
Second Tranche 
 
248,875,000 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
1,125,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 450,000,000 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; 
 
2. 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
appropriate; and  
 
3. 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, it may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the 
Borrower has not taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to paragraphs 
1, 2 and 3 above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel all or any 
part of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
Page  10
9
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2014, 
 
through August 15, 2038 
 
2.0% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
Page  12
11
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“COMPRASAL” means C
omponente I
nformático del Sistema de Adquisiciones y 
Contrataciones de la Administración Pública
,
the Borrower’s Informatic 
Component of the Public Administration Procurement System. 
 
2. “DGA” 
means 
Dirección General de Aduanas,
 the Borrower’s Customs 
Directorate. 
 
3. “DGII” 
means 
Dirección General de Impuestos Internos
,
the Borrower’s Internal 
Revenue Administration Directorate. 
 
4. “EDUCAME” 
means 
Programa de
 Educación Media para Todos,
 the 
Borrower’s National Secondary Education Program, as established through 
article 38 III of the Recipient’s 
Ley General de
 Educación
 and through the 
Recipient’s Executive Decree No. 15038 of March 2, 2006. 
 
5. 
“Electricity Subsidy for Firms” means the electric energy subsidy for those users 
classified by the Borrower as of medium and large demand, as established by the 
Borrower’s 
Fondo de Inversion en Electricidad y 
Telefonía
 in accordance with 
article 4 of its law of creation, and which has been implemented periodically 
through the execution of agreements between the Borrower, the 
Fondo de 
Inversion
 
en Electricidad y Telefonía
 and the electricity distribution companies in 
the Borrower’s territory. 
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Page  14
13
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
w
atch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
7. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  15
14
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. “MINED” 
means 
Ministerio de
 Educación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education. 
 
10. “MODDIV” 
means 
Módulo de Divulgación de 
COMPRASAL
,
COMPRASAL‘s 
disclosure module. 
 
11. “PAESITA 
Test” 
means 
Evaluación de Logros de Aprendizaje en Educación 
Básica, 
the 
Recipient’s standardized Learning Assessment for Primary Education 
Students, as set forth in article 10 of MINED’s internal regulation (
Reglamento 
Interno
).
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated November 10, 2008, from the Borrower to the 
Bank, declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
13. “
Red Solidaria
”
means 
Programa
 
Red Solidaria,
 
Red de
 Protección Social del 
Gobierno de El Salvador
,
the Borrower’s Social Safety Net Program, created 
through Executive Decree No. 11 of March 4, 2005, published in the Recipient’s 
official gazette No. 45 of April 3, 2005, with the objective of, 
inter alia
,
providing support to families in conditions of extreme poverty, by improving 
nutrition services for mothers and their children, basic education and improved 
water and sanitation. 
 
14. “SAFI” 
means 
Sistema de
 Administración Financiera Integrado
,
the Borrower’s 
Integrated Financial Management System. 
 
15. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  16
15
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
Page  17
16
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.
”
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
