Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4318 
Operation Name 
El Salvador Public Finance and Social Sector DPL (formerly El 
Salvador Fiscal and Institutional DPL) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Secondary education 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P114910 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 13, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 3, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 5, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The current administration, in office since June 2004, has made good progress in moving forward 
its reform agenda which was built on three main pillars: (i) accelerating broad-based, equitable 
economic growth and increase employment; (ii) improving equity through building human capital 
and expanding access to socioeconomic infrastructure, assets and markets; and (iii) enhancing 
security and reducing vulnerability. Progress has been made in each of these priority areas, with 
development targets being exceeded in many instances. H
owever, the country’s debt service 
profile compounded by present global economic conditions could place significant pressure on 
fiscal resources in the year 2011 when debt service will more than double to reach almost 
$1.4 billion (versus average annual debt service costs of under $650 million during 2008-2010). In 
this context, the Saca administration, the presidential candidates and representatives of the two 
main political parties (ARENA and FMLN) have come together to design a focused program of 
external borrowing and internal reforms to try to ensure sustained progress on social service 
provision and the strengthening of public  institutions.  The proposed operation is a response to this 
request for assistance.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The main objectives of the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL are to: (i) help El Salvador 
strengthen medium-term fiscal sustainability; (ii) support good governance and transparency in the 
use of public resources; and (iii) maintain steady improvements in social protection and education.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The DPL is designed as a two-tranche DPL (USD 200 million and USD 250 million). The first 
tranche of would be disbursed immediately after Board approval; the second tranche is designed as 
a
floating tranche, but is expected to disburse in 2011 in view of the time needed to accomplish the 
benchmarks defined for that tranche.  
 
The supported program is structured around seven priority areas: (i) expanding fiscal space 
through the implementation of tax administration measures to fight tax evasion and the 
Page  2
implementation of new tax measures; (ii) improving the targeting of existing public subsidies 
through the elimination of the non-residential electricity subsidy; (iii) modernizing public finance 
management through the expansion of the integrated financial system and improvements in budget 
management; (iv) enhancing public sector transparency through the promotion of access to 
information; (v) expanding the coverage of the social protection program 
Red Solidaria
;
(vi) improving the quality of primary education through the implementation of a strategy to 
address the performance in the lowest ranking schools; and (vii) expanding access opportunities to 
secondary education through  the implementation of the EDUCAME program. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have significant effects on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.  The specific actions aimed at improving public 
expenditure management and fiscal transparency, or at expanding social protection and education 
are not likely to have a significant effect on the environment either directly or indirectly. This is 
also likely to be the case for the actions aimed at improving the targeting of existing subsidies and 
more specifically the actions aimed at eliminating the electricity subsidy for firms. In fact, the 
elimination of this subsidy may contribute to the adoption of energy-efficient technology with 
likely positive effects on the environment. Moreover, taking into account that the subsidy being 
eliminated focuses on large firms, it is unlikely that this action will contribute to a change in the 
source of energy used by firms (i.e., from publicly provided electricity to the use of private 
electricity generation capacity).  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
450 
 Total 
450 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: J. Humberto Lopez 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4909 
Fax: (202) 676-9135 
Email: Hlopez@worldbank.org
 
