Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4405 
Operation Name 
El Salvador Public Finance and Social Sector DPL  
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Secondary education 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P114910 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 9, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 3, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
January 22, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The current administration, in office since June 2004, has made good progress in moving 
forward its reform agenda which was built on three main pillars: (i) accelerating broad-based, 
equitable economic growth and increase employment; (ii) improving equity through building 
human capital and expanding access to socioeconomic infrastructure, assets and markets; and 
(iii) enhancing security and reducing vulnerability. Progress has been made in each of these 
priority areas, with development targets being exceeded in many instances. However, the 
country’s debt service profile compounded by present global economic conditions could place 
significant pressure on fiscal resources in the year 2011 when debt service will more than double 
to reach almost $1.4 billion (versus average annual debt service costs of under $650 million 
during 2008-2010).  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The main objectives of the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL are to: (i) help El Salvador 
strengthen medium-term fiscal sustainability; (ii) support good governance and transparency in 
the use of public resources; and (iii) maintain steady improvements in social protection and 
education. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
In the country context described under paragraph 1, the Saca administration, the presidential 
candidates and representatives of the two main political parties (ARENA and FMLN) have come 
together to design a focused program of external borrowing and internal reforms to try to ensure 
sustained progress on social service provision and the strengthening of public  institutions.  The 
proposed operation is a response to this request for assistance. 
 
4. Financing 
Loan amount: US$ 450 million (IBRD) 
Two tranches: US$ 200 million and US$ 250 million 
 
Page  2
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of the DPL series as well as for 
coordinating actions among the concerned line agencies,
 
including, in particular, the Central 
Bank, the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (for aspects concerning 
Red Solidaria
), and the 
Ministry of Education (for aspects concerning the education sector). Together with the Ministry 
of Finance, these institutions will collect the necessary data to assess implementation progress 
and report it to the Bank, taking into account both process advances and service statistics, survey 
and other data that might be used to assess the achievement of the program’s end outcomes. The 
Government, through the concerned agencies, will prepare progress reports on the 
implementation of agreed action plans linked to the second-tranche release.
 
The Ministry of Finance and the Bank have also agreed to conduct joint reviews of program 
progress on a semi-annual basis. These reviews will aim at identifying areas of strengths and 
weaknesses, and possible assistance needed to maintain momentum toward the planned medium-
term outcomes.  They will also assess possible downside risks and agree on measures to address 
these to the extent feasible. A mid-term review will be undertaken in the context of preparation 
of the next CPS, when the Government and the Bank will jointly evaluate progress towards 
achieving the outcomes laid out for the DPL program and, if necessary, agree on course 
corrections.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The operation is subject to four main risks: 
 
(i) The principal risk to the proposed DPL derives from the highly polarized political climate in 
El Salvador which could affect program implementation following the Congressional and 
Presidential elections in January and March 2009. This risk is mitigated to a large extent by the 
consultation process followed in the preparation of this DPL which included both the main 
political opposition, a wide range of civil society groups and private sector organizations.  
 
(ii) On the macroeconomic front, the main risk derives from the global financial crisis and more 
specifically from a deep and prolonged global deceleration.  This risk is mitigated by the design 
of the program and by recent steps taken by the authorities to enhance crisis preparedness.  
 
(iii) The operation is also susceptible to risks deriving from natural disasters as the country is 
highly vulnerable to multiple natural disasters risks that can pose a significant threat to 
economic growth and fiscal stability and can also delay the government’s program.  This risk is 
mitigated by the government’s focus on improving fiscal responsibility while building a stronger 
safety net to better absorb such shocks.   
 
(iv) Finally, as suggested by the discussion of political risks above, the design of the DPL as a 2-
tranche operation carries some inherent risk that second tranche benchmarks may not be met as 
currently agreed due to changing circumstances in El Salvador or exogenous shocks (including 
natural disasters). The team will maintain a close engagement with the government to minimize 
Page  3
the risks to disbursement of the second tranche and ensure the satisfactory completion of the 
program. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Although none of the specific actions supported by this DPL is likely to have negative social 
consequences, some of the actions could have distributional effects. For example, even though 
the action plan to remove the electricity subsidy to firms supported by this DPL has been broadly 
consulted by the government with the private sector, in principle the elimination of the subsidy 
could have a negative impact on the productivity of country’s largest firms (as the removal of the 
subsidy does not affect small firms) and this in turn affect the firms’ labor decisions. Similarly, 
even though tax policy changes supported by this DPL are basically aimed at offsetting (at least 
partly) other tax interventions (e.g. decline of taxes associated to CAFTA) or target goods such 
as alcoholic beverages, they could also have distributional implications.  
 
On the social front, actions aimed at expanding the coverage of Red Solidaria to additional 
municipalities would increase transfers to the country’s lowest income households, and over the 
longer-run, expansions of secondary education access to vulnerable groups would also likely 
have distributional effects, as closing education gaps will likely contribute to closing income 
gaps in the future. Thus although this operation is likely to promote poverty reduction, its 
implementation will require monitoring of the distributional aspects.    
 
The Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have significant effects on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.  Actions aimed at improving public expenditure 
management and fiscal transparency, or at expanding social protection and education are not 
likely to have a significant effect on the environment either directly or indirectly. This is also 
likely to be the case for the actions aimed at improving the targeting of existing subsidies and 
more specifically the action aimed at eliminating the electricity subsidy for firms. In fact, the 
elimination of this subsidy may contribute to the adoption of energy efficient technology with 
likely positive effects on the environment. Moreover, taking into account that the subsidy being 
eliminated focuses on large firms, it is unlikely that this action will contribute to a change in the 
source of energy used by firms (i.e. from publicly provide electricity to the used of private 
electricity generation capacity).  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: J. Humberto Lopez 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4909 
Fax: (202) 676-9135 
Email: Hlopez@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
