                                                 Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                       Report No. 46670-SV




                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

                                              DEVELOPMENT

                                         PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                     FOR A

                             PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL SECTOR

                                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION


                                                       TO


                                 THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR



                                              December 10, 2008




Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR--FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1 ­ December 31

                                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             The US Dollar is the current currency in El Salvador

                                           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                  Metric System

                                SELECTED ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATION

AAA                        Analytical and Advisory Services
ARENA                      National Republic Alliance Party
BCR                        Central Reserve Bank
CABEI                      Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAFTA                      Central American Free Trade Agreement
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA                       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR                       Country Procurement Assessment
CPS                        Country Program Strategy
DGA                        Customs
DGII                       Tax administration office
DR-CAFTA                   Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement
EU                         European Union
FDI                        Foreign Direct Investment
FMLN                       Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front Party
FY                         Fiscal Year
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
IDB                        Inter American Development Bank
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
LAC                        Latin America and the Caribbean
MDBs                       Multilateral Development Banks
NFPS                       Non-Financial Public Sector
PER                        Public Expenditure Review
PFM                        Public Financial Management
SAFI                       Integrated Financial Management System


                         Vice President                          Pamela Cox
                         Country Director                        Laura Frigenti
                         Sector Director                         Marcelo Giugale
                         Sector Manager                          Rodrigo Chaves
                         Task Managers                           J. Humberto Lopez and
                                                                 Alberto Leyton

                                             ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The World Bank Group greatly appreciates the close collaboration with the Government of El Salvador in the
preparation of this Social and Institutional Development Policy Loan (DPL). The DPL team, including Ana Lucia
Armijos, Sajitha Bashir, Laura Rawlings, Christian Aedo, Edmundo Murrugarra, Pablo Acosta and Sabine Perrissin
would like to thank the entire country team for their contributions. Special thanks go to several colleagues in the
Bank for critical inputs especially Neeta Sirur, co-author of this program document, our peer reviewers, Ulrich
Lachler and Jan Walliser, and Todd Crawford, LAC ROC Secretary.


                                                                                                                 ii

    Republic of El Salvador--Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS

         Loan and Program Summary................................................................................... iv

I.       Introduction..................................................................................................................1
II.      Country Context...........................................................................................................1
III.     Recent Developments and Emerging Challenges......................................................3
         A. Recent Macroeconomic Developments and Medium-Term Outlook..................................3
         B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability. .............................................................4
IV.      The Government Program..................................................................................................7
V.       The Proposed Operation....................................................................................................13
VI.      Operation Implementation ...............................................................................................17
         A. Poverty and Social Impacts ...............................................................................................17
         B. Consultations.....................................................................................................................17
         C. Monitoring and Evaluation................................................................................................18
         D. Environmental Aspects......................................................................................................18
         E. Fiduciary Aspects..............................................................................................................19
         F. Loan Administration..........................................................................................................19
         G. Risks...................................................................................................................................20

Annexes
Annex 1. Government of El Salvador Policy Actions to be Supported by the DPL............................22
Annex 2. Debt Sustainability analysis .................................................................................................25
Annex 3. El Salvador Broad Based Growth DPL Series .....................................................................29
Annex 4. Letter of Development Policy .............................................................................................31
Annex 5. IMF Relations Note ............................................................................................................38
Annex 6. Addendum to the Proposed Public Finance and Social Sector DPL ...................................39

Tables
Table 1. El Salvador--Key Economic Indicators..................................................................................4
Table 2. Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: Base Case..............................................................5
Table 3. Links between the DPL and Prior Analytical Work ..............................................................15

Boxes
Box 1. Public Debt Management and Domestic Debt Market Development ........................................9



Map (IBRD 33401) .................................................................................................................41




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                                                                                                                      iii


                                LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                   Republic of El Salvador
                 Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan



Borrower              Republic of El Salvador

Implementing Agency   MINISTRY OF FINANCE

                      IBRD Loan Amount: USD 450 million
                      Terms: Commitment linked fixed spread loan, denominated in US
                      dollar, with level repayments of principle payable in 30 years (including
Financing Data        5 of grace period). The Borrower wishes to maintain all risk
                      management options embedded in the loan and has requested an
                      Automatic Rate Fixing arrangement. The front en fee is .25 percent of
                      the total amount, financed out of the loan proceeds.


Operation Type        Two tranche DPL: USD 200 million/USD 250 million

                      The DPL is designed to assist the government in addressing fiscal issues
                      and support continued institutional and social sector reforms. The DPL
                      will contribute to the government's main policy objectives by
Main Policy Areas     supporting actions aimed at: (i) expanding fiscal space for priority
                      spending and improve targeting of public spending; (ii) improving
                      public expenditure management and fiscal transparency; and (iii)
                      maintaining steady improvements in social protection and education.
                      I. Expanding fiscal space for priority spending and improving targeting
                         of existing public spending by:
                         oIncreasing tax collection from 14.1 to 15 percent of GDP
                         oReducing the amount of untargeted public subsidies by 40 percent
                           with respect to July 2008
                      II.Improving public expenditure management and fiscal transparency
                         through:
                         oThe establishment of a multi-year budget preparation and review
                           process and associated results based framework
Key Outcome
Indicators               oThe establishment of a Fiscal Transparency Portal providing access
                           to public finance and budget information.
                      III.    Maintaining steady improvements in social protection and
                         education by:
                         oExpanding the Conditional Cash Transfer Program, Red Solidaria,
                           to cover 120,000 households.
                         oImproving the performance (as measured by test scores) of the
                           lowest ranking schools by 3 % by 2011.
                         oIncreasing secondary education enrollment by about 28,000
                           students, about half of that number in non-formal programs.



                                                                                              iv

                    The main objectives of the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL are to:
                    (i) help El Salvador strengthen medium-term fiscal sustainability; (ii)
                    support good governance and transparency in the use of public
                    resources; and (iii) maintain steady improvements in social protection
                    and education.
Program Development
Objective(s) and    As such, the proposed Public Finance and Social Sector DPL, though
Contribution to CAS not specifically identified in the 2005 Country Assistance Strategy
                    (CAS), is fully consistent with the objectives of Bank engagement laid
                    out in the CAS. This engagement was structured around three pillars: (i)
                    accelerating broad-based growth (including promoting macro stability
                    and fiscal consolidation), (ii) improving equity and human capital, and
                    (iii) enhancing security and reducing vulnerability.
                     The operation is subject to four main risks:

                     The principal risk to the proposed DPL derives from the highly
                     polarized political climate in El Salvador which could affect program
                     implementation following the Congressional and Presidential elections
                     in January and March 2009. This risk is mitigated to a large extent by
                     the consultation process followed in the preparation of this DPL which
                     included both the main political opposition, a wide range of civil
                     society groups and private sector organizations.

                     On the macroeconomic front, the main risk derives from the global
                     financial crisis and more specifically from a deep and prolonged global
                     deceleration. This risk is mitigated by the design of the program and by
                     recent steps taken by the authorities to enhance crisis preparedness.
Risks and Risk
Mitigation
                     The operation is also susceptible to risks deriving from natural disasters
                     as the country is highly vulnerable to multiple natural disasters risks
                     that can pose a significant threat to economic growth and fiscal stability
                     and can also delay the government's program. This risk is mitigated by
                     the government's focus on improving fiscal responsibility while
                     building a stronger safety net to better absorb such shocks.

                    Finally, as suggested by the discussion of political risks above, the
                    design of the DPL as a 2-tranche operation carries some inherent risk
                    that second tranche benchmarks may not be met as currently agreed due
                    to changing circumstances in El Salvador or exogenous shocks
                    (including natural disasters). The team will maintain a close engagement
                    with the government to minimize the risks to disbursement of the
                    second tranche and ensure the satisfactory completion of the program.

Operation ID        PE-P114910-LEN-BB-SV




                                                                                              v

                                           EL SALVADOR
     PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                     I.       INTRODUCTION

1.      This program document describes a two-tranche Public Finance and Social Sector
Development Policy Loan (DPL) for US$450 million equivalent to the Republic of El
Salvador. The operation supports the government's program for addressing fiscal and related
public finance management issues and for maintaining and/or enhancing the poverty and social
gains achieved over the past decade. The Public Finance and Social Sector DPL, together with a
parallel US$500 million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), is also integral
to El Salvador's strategy for improving the country's debt profile by increasing the proportion of
longer-term, lower-cost loans from multilateral development banks in the overall public debt.
The next sections of this document lay out the political and socio-economic context within which
this DPL was developed, followed by a detailed description of the loan and its associated
benefits and risks.


                                     II. COUNTRY CONTEXT

2.      Following a 12-year civil war which ended in 1991, El Salvador has made tremendous
progress in consolidating peace and democracy through free and fair national and local-level
elections, but politics are characterized by a high level of polarization ­ in turn affecting the
reform agenda. The national political stage is dominated by two main political parties -- the pro-
business National Republic Alliance Party (ARENA) and the left-leaning Farabundo Marti
National Liberation Front Party (FMLN), which derives from the former guerrilla movement.
ARENA has consistently held the executive branch of government since peace was re-
established in the country but recent elections (2003 and 2006) have divided power in the
National Assembly between ARENA and the FMLN, giving the latter the possibility to block
decisions which require a two-thirds majority for passage, such as significant institutional
reforms and approval of foreign loans involving a sovereign guarantee. The next elections
(Assembly and Municipality) are scheduled for January 2009. They will be followed by the
March 2009 presidential election with the transfer of power following about two months later.

3.      The country's political transformation was accompanied by major structural economic
reforms and stable macro policies. Starting in the 1990s, successive administrations have
undertaken significant stabilization and modernization efforts. Structural reforms have included
trade liberalization, financial sector strengthening, re-privatization of the financial sector and
other state enterprises, comprehensive tax reform, pension reform, and improvements in the
competitiveness environment for private investment. The adoption of the US dollar as legal
tender in 2001 resulted in lower inflation, reduced business uncertainty and lowered interest
rates. With a strong commitment to an outward-oriented development strategy, El Salvador was
the first country to ratify in its legislature the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade
Agreement (DR-CAFTA) with the United States. As a result of these sustained reform efforts, El
Salvador stands out as a leader in reforms in the Latin American Region, along with Chile and
Peru.



                                                                                                1

4.      The robust reform program led to high rates of growth (averaging about 6 percent per
annum) during the 1990s, but growth slowed down in the first years of the current
millennium, before picking up again in the last two or so years. Between 2000 and 2004,
growth slowed to about 1.8 percent per year on average, reflecting, inter alia, the global
slowdown following 9/11, a devastating earthquake in 2001, the impact of the "coffee crisis" on
the value of agricultural output as well as a reduction in private investment, associated with the
political uncertainty in the run-up to the 2004 presidential elections. Growth picked up again in
the latter half of 2005, reaching 4.7 percent in 2007 ­its highest level in about a decade. The
rebound in growth was the result of stronger agricultural activity, increases in tourism and more
dynamic financial and commercial sectors. In 2007, 48.2 percent of total exports were non-
traditional compared with 39.7 percent just three years earlier, suggesting rapid diversification
and reduced economic vulnerability. In addition, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) reached 7.2
percent of GDP, related in part to the acquisition of three major banks by foreign corporations.
More details on recent economic developments, including macroeconomic developments and
policies are provided in Section III below.

5.      The relatively strong economic performance since the reestablishment of peace was
accompanied by substantial declines in poverty as well as improvements in access to basic and
social services. Economic growth, coupled with reforms in some key sectors and increases in
social sector spending in the second half of the 1990s, contributed to substantial reductions in
poverty and improvements in basic socioeconomic indicators over the period. Indeed, the
poverty headcount (for both overall and extreme poverty) fell by nearly one half since the end of
the conflict. By 2007, about 34.6 percent of Salvadoran households were poor, including about
15.4 percent extremely poor households (versus 64.4 percent and 31.2 percent in 1991). In
addition, access to basic services, including safe water and sanitation, has increased; and core
health outcomes, such as life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and child nutrition have all
improved. In several areas, including in basic education, infant mortality, and access to potable
water, the gaps between the poor and the non-poor have also declined over the period. School
enrollment levels have risen dramatically ­ from 75 percent and 25 percent in 1991 to 94 percent
and 64 percent of the age-group for primary and secondary respectively in 2006. However, the
education sector faces at least two major challenges that need to be overcome. One is the need to
improve quality across all education levels ­ as evidenced by primary completion rates of only
68 percent (about 15 percent lower than the LAC average). The other challenge concerns the
need to further increase access to secondary education where enrollments still lag LAC averages.

6.      The current administration, in office since June 2004, has made good progress in
moving forward its reform agenda, but emerging challenges associated with present global
economic conditions compounded by the debt profile could threaten gains or hinder continued
progress. The government's program for the period 2004-2009 was built on three main pillars:
(i) accelerating broad-based, equitable economic growth and increase employment; (ii)
improving equity through building human capital and expanding access to socioeconomic
infrastructure, assets and markets; and (iii) enhancing security and reducing vulnerability. As a
result of good performance, and despite a difficult political situation, progress has been made in
each of these priority areas, with development targets being exceeded in many instances. In the
medium-term, however, the country faces pressures on the fiscal front particularly in 2011 as a



                                                                                                2

result of the unfavorable debt profile that year, in turn affecting the country's ability to make
continued steady socio-economic progress in the medium-term. Moreover, as mentioned above,
unfavorable external factors (including economic slowdown, financial market instability and
high food and fuel prices, declining remittance growth) are already beginning to have a
dampening effect on growth and there is concern that poverty and social gains could be
threatened going forward. Indeed, there is some evidence of a slight increase in poverty between
2007 and 2008, likely a direct result of the high cost of staple food commodities.

7.     In this context, and given the proximity of national elections, the Saca administration,
the presidential candidates and representatives of the two main political parties (ARENA and
FMLN) have come together to design a focused program of external borrowing and internal
reforms to try to ensure sustained progress on social service provision and the strengthening
of public institutions. Recent developments, medium-term prospects and the country's agreed
strategy for meeting emerging challenges are described further in Section III below, as they form
the background to the proposed Public Finance and Social Sector DPL.


             III. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND EMERGING CHALLENGES

A. Recent Macroeconomic Developments and Medium-Term Outlook

8.     El Salvador's macroeconomic management has traditionally been sound and
continued improvements have been apparent in the past 3 or so years, including substantial
declines in the public sector deficit and the ratio of public debt to GDP over 2005-2007. As
Table 1 shows, progress in containing the country's non-financial public sector deficit has been
especially significant, with the deficit falling to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2007, from a peak of 4.4
percent of GDP in 2001 and 2002. Notably, the primary balance showed a surplus -- of 0.5
percent of GDP in 2007 -- for the first time in more than a decade. The observed fiscal
consolidation is largely due to strong revenue performance. -- tax revenues increased by 2
percentage points of GDP since 2003, reaching 14.1 percent of GDP in 2007. This trend has
continued through the first half of 2008, with tax revenues growing at an annualized rate of 9
percent. In parallel with the increase in revenues and the reduction of the deficit, the ratio of
public debt to GDP fell from a high of 43.5 percent of GDP in 2005 to 41.9 percent of GDP in
2007. In addition, inflation remained under control ­at an average of 4.7 percent per annum--
throughout the period. As discussed above (paragraph 4), these favorable factors enabled a pick-
up in growth rates, reaching 4.7 percent in 2007.

9.     On the external front, El Salvador's relatively high current account deficit expanded
somewhat ­ to 5.5 percent in 2007 -- but stability continued to be ensured by high and growing
capital and remittance inflows. Exports and imports increased considerably following the
effectiveness of CAFTA-DR in 2006 and the already-large trade deficit (17.2 percent of GDP in
2005) reached 20 percent of GDP in 2007. Exports grew strongly by 19.4 percent, in part due to
a recovery in maquila exports (15 percent growth), and imports rose by 18.9 percent, driven
largely by the rising cost of fuel. Indeed, the value of fuel imports rose by 37 percent, despite
significant reductions in fuel import volumes. Strong capital inflows, in part related to the sale of
three major domestic banks to foreign buyers in 2007, helped finance the current account deficit,



                                                                                                   3

as did the significant flow of remittances from Salvadorans living abroad. Remittances have
increased from an average of 2.6 percent of GDP during the 1980s to 18 percent of GDP in 2007,
displaying remarkable stability despite the downturn in economic activity in the U.S in 2001-
2003. These inflows continue to be an important driving force behind consumer spending,
although they are offset by falling terms of trade.


                        Table 1. El Salvador Key Economic Indicators 2004-2007
                               (percentage of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                         2004         2005          2006    2007
   Income and prices
   GDP growth (% change)                                  1.9         3.1            4.2     4.7
   GDP per capita (% change)                              0.0         1.3            2.5     3.0
   Inflation (cpi end of period % change)                 5.4         4.3            4.9     4.9
   Investment and savings
   Gross domestic investment                             16.2         15.7          16.1    16.3
   Gross domestic savings                                12.2         12.4          12.6    10.8
   Consolidated public sector accounts
   Total revenues and grants                             16.5         16.5          17.2    17.1
      Total tax revenues                                 12.5         13.3          13.4    14.1
   Total expenditure                                     18.9         19.5          20.1    19.0
     Current expenditure                                 16.6         16.8          17.0    16.3
     Capital expenditure                                  2.3         2.7            3.1     2.8
   Primary balance                                       -0.8         -0.8          -0.5     0.5
   Overall balance                                       -3.0         -3.0          -2.9    -1.9
   Public debt
   Total debt                                            42.1         43.5          42.0    41.9
      O/w External                                       30.2         29.2          30.6    26.4
   External public debt servicing (% of exports)         20.7         15.9          14.7    14.2
   Balance of payments
   Current account balance                               -4.0         -3.3          -3.6    -5.5
   Trade balance                                         -16.8       -17.2          -19.0   -20.0
     Exports (including maquila)                         21.1         20.2          20.2    19.8
     Imports (including maquila)                         38.0         37.4          39.1    39.8
   Foreign direct investment                              2.3         3.0            1.0     7.5
   Remittances                                           16.1         17.7          17.6    18.1
   Memorandum item:
   Nominal GDP (billions of US dollars)                  15.8         17.1          18.7    20.4
   Source: Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and IMF and World Bank staff estimates.

B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability

10.     Until recently the 2008­12 growth outlook for El Salvador was broadly positive, but
growth projections have now been revised downwards as a result of the continued global
financial turmoil and the likely deeper economic slowdown in the US. Initial estimates had
foreseen a gradual slowdown to about 4 percent GDP growth in 2008-2009, with a recovery to
about 4.5 percent by 2011. However, in light of the continued financial turbulence in the US and
the emerging evidence that indicates that it is translating to the real US economy (the main
commercial partner of El Salvador), growth projections have been lowered to reflect a decline in
export performance, tightening domestic credit markets and a slow down in remittances growth
(remittances in August 2008 were 2.1 percent lower than in August 2007). Growth is now



                                                                                                   4

projected at 3 percent in 2008 and at 2.6 percent in 2009, with a recovery to 4 percent expected
only by 2012 (Table 2). A debt sustainability analysis is provided in Annex 2. The analysis
shows that the projected average annual primary surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP during 2009-
2013 would allow for a gradual decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio to 32.7 percent of GDP by about
2013.

11.      Exogenous factors ­ mainly the rise in global food and fuel prices ­ are also exerting
substantial inflationary pressures on the Salvadoran economy. After having peaked at 5.4
percent in 2004, inflation moderated considerably in 2005-2007, averaging 4.7 percent for the
period. In recent months, however, inflation has begun to rise -- with the consumer price index
reaching a level of 7.4 percent in October 2008 and the cost of the basket of goods and services
consumed by the poor reaching its highest point in August at 11.9 percent (compared with 3.4 in
July 2007). Most of this increase is explained by the evolution of food and oil prices, with food
inflation alone reaching 17.5 percent. As a result, inflation is likely to be around 7.5 percent for
2008, but it is expected to moderate in the coming years, returning to levels of around 3 percent
by 2011 assuming a decline in food prices after 2008 and a moderation in oil prices in the
medium-term.

                        Table 2 Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: Base Case
                                (percentage of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                   2008      2009        2010     2011   2012   2013
Income and prices
GDP growth (% change)                               3.0       2.6         3.0      3.5    4.0    4.5
Inflation (cpi end of period % change)              7.5       6.0         4.0      3.0    3.0    3.0
Investment and savings
Gross domestic investment                           16.6     14.6        15.3     15.8   16.8   17.6
Gross domestic savings                              10.1      9.2        10.0     11.0   12.5   13.5
Consolidated Public Sector
Total revenues and grants                           17.5     17.7        18.6     18.6   18.7   18.7
  Total tax revenue                                 14.1     14.1        14.5     14.9   15.1   15.1
Total expenditures                                  19.8     19.9        20.0     19.6   19.3   19.2
   Current expenditure                              17.0     17.1        16.7     16.5   16.2   16.1
   Capital expenditures                             2.8       2.8         3.3      3.1    3.1    3.0
Primary balance                                     0.0       0.2         1.1      1.4    1.9    1.9
Overall balance                                     -2.3      -2.2       -1.3     -1.1   -0.5   -0.5
Public Debt
Total debt                                          40.5     40.4        38.8     37.1   34.9   32.7
  O/w external                                      24.1     22.0        20.7     19.2   17.9   16.7
External public debt servicing (% of exports)       9.5       9.6         9.8      18    10.4    9.7
Balance of Payments
Current account balance                             -6.1      -5.4       -5.3     -4.8   -4.3   -4.0
Trade balance                                      -20.3     -18.5       -17.7    -16.9  -16.4  -16.0
  Exports of goods (f.o.b)                          20.5     19.9        19.8     19.9   19.7   19.4
  Imports of goods (f.o.b.)                         40.8     38.4        37.5     36.8   36.1   35.4
Foreign direct investment                           2.9       2.9         2.9      2.9    2.9    2.9
Remittances                                         17.2     16.5        16.0     15.6   15.4   15.1
Memorandum Item
Nominal GDP (billions of US dollars)                22.3     23.9        25.7     27.5   29.6   32.0
Source: Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and IMF and World Bank staff estimates.




                                                                                                     5

12.     The banking sector in El Salvador remains well-capitalized and is not showing signs of
stress, though there has been some tightening of credit. During the past 24 months the largest
Salvadoran Banks were acquired by foreign banks and now about 95 percent of bank assets are
in foreign hands. Currently, capital adequacy ratios are at levels comparable to -- if not higher
than -- those observed before the current financial turmoil and well above the regulatory
minimum of 12. The system is also relatively liquid with net liquid assets to short-term liabilities
of 34.4 percent. However, the combined effect of the expected growth slowdown and lower
remittances growth could lead to an increase in non-performing loans and bears close
monitoring. Moreover, as mentioned in paragraph 10 above, the global financial turmoil has led
to some tightening in domestic credit markets. The month of July witnessed a decline of 1.2
percent in the real rate of growth of credit to the private sector with respect to July 2007. This
decline in domestic credit reflects both lower demand for credit due to uncertain economic
conditions and reduced credit availability due to the tighter funding conditions and higher
borrowing costs faced by commercial banks.

13.     Risks to the medium term outlook include the possibility of domestic liquidity problems
resulting from a worse than expected external environment in 2009. El Salvador is an officially
dollarized economy and as such the balance of payments is self-stabilizing, so that declines in
dollar inflows would result in higher interest rates and declines in purchasing power. Moreover,
standard vulnerability indicators appear adequate so far (e.g. the stock of gross official reserves
is projected at 165 percent of total short term debt for end 2008). However, a deteriorating
external environment could make it harder for the government to meet its short-term financing
needs as both public and private sectors compete from a reduced pool of resources.        The loan
proposed in this document, as well as similar support from IDB, form part of the government's
strategy to help insure against a fiscal crisis in the short-term.

14.     The authorities are responding to the current global environment by redoubling efforts
to maintain macroeconomic stability and to contain potential risks from exogenous and
domestic shocks. El Salvador has reiterated its commitment to maintaining the strong fiscal
performance of 2007 while expanding some social programs to mitigate the impact of high
commodity prices. El Salvador is also addressing the pressures emerging from the need to roll
the outstanding stock of short-term debt instruments (LETES) by negotiating access to long-term
multilateral financing from the World Bank, the Inter American Development Bank (IDB), and
the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). With respect to the financial
sector and in line with IMF recommendations, the country introduced in July 2008 a temporary 3
percent liquidity asset requirement on banks to support the liquidity of the financial sector ahead
of the elections. The monetary authorities are also negotiating external lines of credit for the
Central Bank and working on the preparation of action plans to face potential stress situations in
the financial sector. More generally, El Salvador is also exploring with the IMF the possibility of
a precautionary Stand-By Arrangement.

15.     In the medium-term, El Salvador's main challenge is to protect critical poverty
reducing and growth enhancing expenditures from adverse fiscal pressures resulting from
several domestic factors. These include:




                                                                                                  6

    · Pension reform costs -- El Salvador adopted a pension reform in 1996 that replaced the
       existing pay-as-you-go system with a system of individual retirement accounts. The
       reform was aimed at improving long-term fiscal sustainability by replacing a system that
       was projected to yield large and growing deficits in the future with an individual
       capitalization system for younger Salvadorans, implying transitional costs as social
       security contributions moved to private accounts while the state remains obligated to pay
       out pensions to older generations. To face mounting transition costs of the pension
       reform, the Saca administration pushed through parametric reforms to eliminate early
       retirement, thereby generating savings of 1 percent of GPD between 2005 and 2009.
       Despite this reform, net outlays required to finance the transition are expected to average
       about 1.6 percent of GDP per year over the period 2009-2012.

    · Cost of Energy Subsidies ­ rising oil prices have caused the cost of energy subsidies to
       nearly double since end-2007 to an estimated 2.5 percent of GDP in 2008. About half of
       the subsidy is directed to electricity consumption (by both businesses and residential
       consumers) via below-market tariffs, a third to liquid gas and the remainder to public
       transport. Overall, the electricity and liquid gas subsidies are poorly targeted and a
       comprehensive reform is needed to improve both efficiency and targeting of the public
       transport subsidy.

    · Debt profile ­ added to the impact of the growth slowdown and the pension reform, El
       Salvador's medium-term fiscal situation will be further complicated by the need to
       amortize a bond series known as Eurobond 2011. As a result, debt service would more
       than double in 2011 ­ reaching almost $1.4 billion or 4.9 percent of GDP for that year
       versus average annual debt service costs of under $650 million during 2008-2010. This,
       in turn, would tighten the Government's capacity to maintain core public spending for the
       social sectors and infrastructure.

16.    On the whole, even though the economy is entering a downturn and there are
significant risks to the short-term outlook associated with the difficult external environment,
economic fundamentals are solid and provide an adequate basis for Bank development policy
lending.

                            IV.THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

17.    Recognizing the potential implications of the projected medium term fiscal scenario
for growth and poverty reduction, the Government had led a process, in conjunction with the
political opposition and civil society, to develop a focused strategy and related program of
actions to address the fiscal situation and maintain socio-economic progress. Given that its
implementation will straddle two administrations (elections are scheduled for March 2009) and
involve legislative action in some instances, the strategy and program have been carefully
negotiated and agreed with a range of political actors (including the main opposition party ­
FMLN) as well as key civil society institutions and private sector organizations. The program,
which is supported by the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL, involves both immediate
actions to protect households from the impact of commodity price shocks and reduced remittance
income as well as medium term initiatives aimed at creating more fiscal space, increasing



                                                                                                7

efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources and maintaining the pace of social
sector reform efforts.

18.     El Salvador's short-run strategy to protect vulnerable households from the impact of
high commodity prices is focused on expanding or developing an effective, well-targeted safety
net. The safety net, paid for mainly through cuts in non-priority public spending and revenue
increases through improved tax administration, involves six main elements as follows:
    · expanding Red Solidaria -- a conditional cash-transfer program ­ targeted to
        households with children living in the country's poorest municipalities
    · increasing allowances for Alianza para la Familia -- a tax credit program ­ which
        supports the consumption of lower middle class working families and increases access to
        health and education services (by expanding social security benefits for maternal services
        and eliminating charges for secondary education in public schools).
    · reducing import tariffs on wheat and agricultural inputs to help contain food costs and
        maintain domestic food production
    · increasing the public transport subsidy to avoid increases in tariffs
    · supporting agricultural production through distributing improved seeds and fertilizers to
        the country's small farmers
    · granting a selective increase in wages to the lowest-paid public servants at an estimated
        annual cost of 0.2 percent of GDP

Despite the additional spending associated with these programs, the authorities' 2009 budget has
a deficit target of 2.2 percent of GDP. This is feasible, owing in part to the recent reform in the
electricity subsidy for firms and increases in tax collection due largely to improvements in
administration as well as a newly-adopted tax on international telephone calls.

19.     With respect to the medium term, a major focus of the agreed strategy is to expand
fiscal space via a three-pronged approach ­ i.e., continued improvements in tax collection via
buttressed administration and policy changes, elimination of costly untargeted subsidies in the
energy sector and adjustments to the public debt composition. The effort to raise tax revenues
aims to increase the tax-to-GDP ratio by about 1 percent (to 15 percent of GDP) by 2013. Inter
alia, this would be achieved by (i) strengthening the internal auditing capacity of the tax
administration unit; (ii) vigorously identifying and prosecuting tax evaders through the criminal
investigation unit; and (iii) deploying a system of cross-checks between tax information and
customs valuation procedures. In addition, new legislation would be developed to introduce an
ad valorem tax on alcoholic beverages either in place or in addition to of the current excise tax,
and introduce additional tax measures, such as a new specific tax to vehicles, to partially offset
the reduction in tariffs and duties associated with CAFTA-DR. The government will also
continue to implemented tax administration measures to fight tax evasion by providing the
customs of Acajutla, San Bartolo and Comalapa Airport with x-ray machines and weight
controllers to strengthen their control capabilities.

20.     In parallel with the efforts to raise revenues, steps are being taken to reform the costly
system of untargeted energy subsidies, beginning with reductions in electricity subsidies for the
non-residential sector. Total elimination of the non-residential electricity subsidy would itself
yield savings equivalent to about 0.4 percent of GDP per year, with better targeting of the



                                                                                                 8

residential subsidy contemplated for 2010-2011, as part of the effort to yield further savings.
The proposed reforms are expected to yield reductions in spending of about 0.6 percent of GDP
per year and would help pay for an expansion of the well-targeted Red Solidaria and other
efficient social programs as well as support continued public investment, particularly for
economic infrastructure. The public electricity company, CEL, would also be able to expand its
investment program, thereby helping to address the growing energy needs of businesses.

21.      The third key element of the Government's program to expand fiscal space involves
improving access to, and the profile of, budget financing.               To date, El Salvador has relied
heavily on short-term debt instruments ­LETES--to cover for cash-flow requirements. However,
the overall financial situation provoked unexpected increase in interest rates for such short-term
financing with negative implications for the term structure of public debt and macro
vulnerability. Moreover, as discussed in paragraph 15, there is an urgent need to plan for the
rollover of the Eurobond 2011, which could mean a ballooning of debt service payments in that
year. In this context, Government has reached agreement with the political opposition to restore
El Salvador's access to long-term finance (approval of which requires a 2/3 majority in
Congress) from Multilateral Development Banks (paragraph 14). Thus far, agreement has been
reached on a credit line with CABEI, and on a new development policy loan with the IDB. This
DPL, complemented by lending of $500 million from IDB, thus forms a key part of the strategy
for expanding fiscal space and improving the country's debt profile to reduce vulnerability.

              Box 1. Public Debt Management and Domestic Debt Market Development

Recognizing the challenges associated with its unfavourable debt service profile, El Salvador has been
making efforts to improve its public debt management capacity, in part with technical assistance from the
Bank's Banking and Debt Management Department. The objective of the assistance was to develop a
sound framework for the design of short, medium and long-term debt management and domestic market
development strategies in El Salvador. The assistance also aimed at building institutional capacity within
the Ministry of Finance. The project was developed in three stages: (i) gathering and organization of debt
related background information; (ii) development of a cash-flow simulation model and scenario analysis;
and (iii) design of a strategic framework for debt management.

The Bank's support helped the country to get a better understanding of the evolution of the public debt
over the last 10 years, identified bottlenecks and opportunities for the development of the domestic public
debt market, and provided the Ministry of Finance with an analytical tool for cost and risk analysis of the
tradeoffs of different debt strategies. It has also provided support for the setting up of a better structured
Debt Management Office and particularly strengthened capacities of mid-level officials. Remaining
challenges to further develop government's capacities in this area include: (i) consolidation of the
analytical capacity of the middle office; (ii) formalization of a debt management strategy, including a
strategy for domestic debt market development; (iii) production of a periodic risk and compliance report
on public debt management; and (iv) establishment of a high level public debt committee.

22.      Complementary to the efforts to expand fiscal space, the medium-term program agreed
to by the Government and the political opposition includes accelerated efforts to further
strengthen public financial management (PFM) and increase the transparency of government
spending, building on the solid accomplishments achieved to date. These objectives (increasing



                                                                                                            9

fiscal revenues while also improving public sector transparency and efficiency) are mutually
reinforcing, as perceived public sector inefficiencies and lack of information on how public
resources are used is often an important factor in public opposition to an expansion in the tax
base. A recent assessment of the current situation in El Salvador, undertaken jointly by the Bank
and IDB, determined that the country's PFM system already possesses a number of strengths,
such as a sound legal and institutional framework for managing and monitoring revenue and
expenditure budgets, cash flows and balances, and debt. In addition, the country's integrated
financial management system (SAFI), conceived not only as a technological platform but as a set
of rules, processes, and skills, has contributed to fiscal discipline by providing timely
information on the implementation of the budget and enforcing expenditure, increased
operational efficiency by streamlining and standardizing processes, buttressed internal and
external controls through safeguards and audit trails, and enabled greater transparency by
allowing the timely issuance of budget execution and other fiscal reports.

23.     Going forward, the agreed program focuses on further strengthening of public
resource management with particular emphasis on expanding the integrated financial
management system (SAFI), adhering to established international norms where appropriate,
increasing the transparency of public spending (including procurement) and improving
budget processes. In this latter regard, a key goal is to move towards a medium-term and
results-based budget framework, with particular emphasis on the "bottom-up" preparation of
costed strategic plans and ensuing investment programs, consistent with the "top-down" fiscal
framework. A second goal relates to the further expansion of SAFI to additional central
government agencies, decentralized public institutions and public enterprises. This expansion
allows effective coverage and control of about 95 percent of central government spending,
leaving only transfers to municipalities to be executed outside the system. On the control side,
the government has recently taken a major step by adopting international standards (COSO
framework) and has put in place internal regulations to further stimulate effective operation of
internal control units in all public institutions. This step is critical to completing the PFM cycle
by using internal controls to provide timely feedback to public sector operations.

24.     Beyond improving expenditure management and controls and in recognition of the
importance of adequate and proactive disclosure, the plan also encompasses a number of
actions to facilitate public dissemination of critical aspects of public financial management. A
state-of-the art public procurement dissemination tool (COMPRASAL) has already been
successfully implemented and is now recoding and publicizing all central government
procurement activities including bidding processes and contracts. COMPRASAL has allowed
enhanced transparency and credibility of public sector performance with respect to an area
commonly perceived as most vulnerable to mismanagement and corruption. It is expected that,
with the support of the Bank, the government will develop and implement in the coming months,
the necessary applications and procedures to further automate bidding processes and convert
COMPRASAL into a fully transactional tool. With this same aim, the government has also
completed and launched a parallel application to disclose all public sector payments, which, in
turn, limits discretional behaviors on the part of public servants managing such payments, and
enhances confidence among users and vendors when interacting with public sector institutions.




                                                                                                 10

25.    Further development of the transparency and freedom of information agenda is
deemed critical in view of existing negative perceptions and mistrust among other
stakeholders, particularly members of the legislature, the media and specialized non-government
groups. The transparency and freedom of public information agenda has gained support among
these groups and the government is now prepared for a more comprehensive and structured
response. Legislation to guarantee access to public information is currently been discussed as
part of the political campaign for 2009 elections and both major parties have expressed their
support for such an initiative. It is expected that, within the next two years, the government will
have established its normative framework and developed institutional capacity to make all public
sector information available and accessible to the public. In terms of transparency, the external
audit reports on the content of state entities' financial statements, and the legislative examination
of financial and audit information, are also subject to improvement. The introduction of the
international COSO framework for internal controls, and of government audit standards for the
internal audit function, will therefore be complemented with pertinent information systems to
assess their actual performance. Finally, the Ministry of Finance expects to launch a new Fiscal
Transparency Portal to broaden the dissemination of interim reporting on public finance and
investment programs and enable customized queries from citizens. In the interim, steps are
already underway to enhance the accessibility of information in both the annual budget law and
the annual state financial management report by incorporating certain elements from
international practice, under a plan to reach convergence in the medium term. A final step in the
agreed transparency agenda is a plan to introduce requirements and procedures that would make
public all available aggregate data on municipal budgets and their execution.

26.    The third leg of the Government's program focuses on expanding opportunities for
vulnerable groups with an emphasis on (i) expanding coverage of targeted social protection
programs and (ii) expanding access to, and quality of education. With respect to the first of
these priorities, the main focus is on expansion of the Red Solidaria program (paragraph 18) to
cover the poorest municipalities in the country. The Bank was a key partner in the design and
implementation of this program, providing support for institutional design and sustainability,
sharing international best practice on similar conditional cash transfer efforts in other countries
and supporting the development of an ongoing impact evaluation effort to allow for recalibration
of the program as needed. There is currently wide consensus that the program is fulfilling its
main objectives of supporting the consumption of poor rural households and increasing the
access of their children to basic health, nutrition and education services. Indeed, an independent
evaluation found that the program is among the best in the region, along with Brazil and Chile.
Moreover, the expansion of Red Solidaria in rural areas has been accompanied by significant
increases in the availability of public health and education services, thereby facilitating access to
and, utilization of, these services.     In this context, the current Government strategy is to
aggressively expand the program, according due attention to maintaining its key design features,
with the aim of covering 100 municipalities by 2011-2012. There is also now increasing concern
about addressing urban poverty in a systematic way and the Government is developing a plan to
support poor urban households, in part with assistance from the Bank and other external partners.

27.    Besides strengthening social protection, the agreed program focuses on improving the
coverage and quality of education at primary and secondary levels. As noted previously
(paragraph 5), El Salvador has made good progress in expanding access to primary education



                                                                                                  11

with 94 percent of children now enrolled in school. Quality, however, remains an issue,
particularly in schools in poor areas, where students have more limited educational support at
home. In order to improve primary education outcomes, the Government has undertaken a
systematic learning assessment at the primary level and, based on its findings, has developed a
comprehensive strategy to address learning outcomes at the lowest performing schools (8 percent
of all public primary schools) including: (a) a monitoring system to assess teachers'
performance; (b) a peer-collaboration program to replicate successful experiences among public
schools; (c) enhanced distribution of education material; and (d) a training program for teachers.
The Cabinet has recently approved the new strategy and its effectiveness will be systematically
monitored via standardized tests. At the secondary level, there is concern about both access and
quality ­ especially since only 50 percent of children now attend secondary school and testing
reveals that performance is especially poor at the lower secondary level. To help promote higher
enrollment in secondary education, Government has approved a plan to eliminate fees and
developed an innovative program ­ termed EDUCAME ­ which aims to provide secondary
education to young people who have already abandoned the formal education system and are
now participating in the labor force. The program, which offers flexible modalities for
completing the secondary curriculum ­ including, inter alia, web-based distance learning,
accelerated secondary programs and "flex-time" courses ­ is already being implemented in about
160 municipalities and will be extended to 200 municipalities by 2011. To address continuing
quality issues in secondary education the focus is on fully equipping secondary school
classrooms in accordance with standards set by the Ministry of Education. The number of these
fully equipped classrooms ("secciones") is set to increase over the program period with the
addition of 200 more "secciones" to the 2007 base of 2866.

28.     Although not addressed in this operation, the Government has also expanded primary
health care coverage to more than 500,000 additional households through the World Bank
Hospital Reconstruction and Health Services Expansion Project. This expansion has utilized the
same targeting criteria set by the Red Solidaria design, and has thus been successful in covering
the country's poorest municipalities.

29.     The above medium-term program constitutes a reasonable and pragmatic approach to
strengthening the fiscal issues facing El Salvador and to maintaining the hard-won social and
institutional progress achieved since the early 1990s. The priorities included in the plan are
focused and achievable and are consistent with the findings of several Bank analytical reports
including the Public Expenditure Review (FY05), the Country Fiduciary Assessment (FY06), the
Poverty Assessment (FY04) and the initial findings of a Poverty Update to be finalized in FY09.
Indeed, despite limited lending (for reasons discussed further in Section V below), the Bank has
maintained an active dialogue with the El Salvadoran authorities in each of the above areas for
several years and has played a role in bringing to bear global experience in the design of key
program features.     The Public Finance and Social Sector DPL, which will support the
implementation of the above national program, is described further in Section V below.




                                                                                               12

                               V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION

30.     The proposed Public Finance and Social Sector DPL, though not specifically identified
in the 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), is fully consistent with the objectives of Bank
engagement laid out in the CAS. As described in the February 2008 CAS Progress Report, only
about 20 percent of the CAS base case envelope of $485 million was committed because five
operations -- including DPL lending -- approved by the Bank, failed to achieve the 2/3 majority
needed for approval by El Salvador's divided National Assembly (paragraph 2). In this context,
and given continued political tensions between the two main parties, it was determined that work
should not go forward on the remaining lending operations identified in the CAS (due to the low
likelihood of Congressional approval) although the country's performance on development
outcomes and commitment to the agenda supported by the DPL series (Annex 4) warranted a
move to the high case of the CAS.

31.     Despite the difficulties encountered in obtaining approval of foreign borrowing in the
Assembly, the Bank remained fully engaged in each of the areas identified in the CAS and
contributed via AAA services and grants to strategy/program development and outcomes in
each of the CAS's three pillars, including the focused strategy now being supported through
this DPL. As noted in the CAS and the CAS progress report the three main pillars of the
government's strategy supported by the Bank include: (i) accelerating broad-based growth
(including promoting macro stability and fiscal consolidation), (ii) improving equity and human
capital, and (iii) enhancing security and reducing vulnerability. Government mobilized
alternative sources of funding that did not require approval by a qualified majority in Congress
(local bonds, external grants) to implement the programs originally supported by the cancelled
Bank loans, making strong progress in each of the pillars. Some key sources included the EU,
Luxembourg and the US Millennium Challenge Account.

32.     Preparation of this DPL operation was initiated following a specific request from
Government to help support its program (paragraphs 17-29) -- developed in consultation with
the political opposition and civil society -- to address fiscal issues and strengthen/maintain the
gains achieved in strengthening governance and the social sectors. On November 6, 2008,
Congress granted the government the authority to negotiate the operation with a two-thirds
majority, reflecting the agreement reached between the two main political parties, ARENA and
the FMLN. Agreement on borrowing from the Bank for this program is partly associated with
the seriousness of the fiscal issues to which the DPL would respond and partly due to the
difficulty of predicting the outcome of the next Presidential election to be held in March 2009.
So far, both ARENA and the FMLN feel confident that they can win the electoral battle, thus
creating an incentive for each party to reach an agreement on borrowing that would ease the
fiscal situation for the next administration. The uncertainty over the outcome of the presidential
election therefore creates a window of opportunity within which both parties are disposed to
support the DPL. Indeed, both parties recognize that it may be difficult to extend the present
agreement on new sovereign borrowing beyond the presidential elections, once a winner
emerges.

33.     The Salvadoran authorities have requested that the DPL be designed as a two-tranche
operation so as to minimize the number of times that congressional approval would need to be



                                                                                               13

sought. Loan effectiveness in El Salvador requires two Congressional approvals. The first of
these approvals ­ already achieved for the proposed DPL -- grants the government the authority
to negotiate. The second approval would be sought following approval by the Bank's Board of
the proposed DPL and would be the only additional approval needed for the loan to move ahead.
The alternative of moving forward with a series of two single-tranche DPLs ­ while allowing
more flexibility with respect to benchmarks -- would involve two additional approaches to
Congress following the presidential election, thereby making approval of the second DPL much
more uncertain. In this context, and following discussions with all interested parties, the Bank
agreed to the two-tranche approach: the first tranche of $200 million would be disbursed
immediately after Board approval; the second tranche for $250 million is designed as a floating
tranche, but is expected to disburse in 2011 in view of the time needed to accomplish the
benchmarks defined for that tranche. It should be noted here that with approval of this DPL the
CAS envelope for El Salvador will have been entirely committed, implying no further lending to
the country until a new CAS has been developed.

34.     The main objectives of the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL are to: (i) help El
Salvador strengthen medium-term fiscal sustainability; (ii) support good governance and
transparency in the use of public resources; and (iii) maintain steady improvements in social
protection and education.     More specifically, the supported program is structured around seven
priority areas: (i) expanding fiscal space through the implementation of tax administration
measures to fight tax evasion and the implementation of new tax measures; (ii) improving the
targeting of existing public subsidies through the elimination of the non-residential electricity
subsidy; (iii) modernizing public finance management through the expansion of the integrated
financial system and improvements in budget management; (iv) enhancing public sector
transparency through the promotion of access to information; (v) expanding the coverage of the
social protection program Red Solidaria; (vi) improving the quality of primary education through
the implementation of a strategy to address the performance in the lowest ranking schools; and
(vii) expanding access opportunities to secondary education through the implementation of the
EDUCAME program.

35.     The conditions included to trigger disbursement of each tranche of the DPL are fully
aligned with, and drawn from, the Government strategy and program described in Section IV
above, and as already mentioned (paragraph 29), address the core challenges identified in Bank
analytical reports including the PER, the Country Fiduciary Assessment and the Poverty
Assessment and recent Update (in progress). The DPL matrix (Annex 1) describes each of the
prior actions for the first tranche, conditions for the second tranche as well as the expected
outcomes of the DPL-supported program. Table 3 below shows the links between the conditions
included in the DPL program (first and second tranche) and the recommendations included in
recent Bank analytical work.

36.     The matrix has been discussed with the government and with the presidential
candidates of both main parties. Since Salvadoran legislation prevents the President from
running for office in two consecutive terms, the Administration negotiating this DPL will not be
the Administration responsible for the conditions that lead to disbursement of the second tranche.
Thus, in order to both gain support from Congress and minimize the risks of the program
derailing in the months ahead, the Bank has consulted the matrix with all interested parties and



                                                                                               14

found a large degree of consensus. It is worth mentioning that the actions agreed to by the
political parties and key civil society and private sector actors are critical to the future
development of El Salvador ­ including enhancing the macro stability of the economy, further
strengthening public sector efficiency and maintaining poverty reduction and human
development efforts.

37.    The DPL complements, and is complemented by, a similar policy-based operation
prepared by the IDB. The authority granted by the Salvadoran Congress to the government to
negotiate the DPL was part of a package that also included authority to negotiate a US$500
million operation with the IDB. The IDB's operation was considered by the IDB Board on
November 25th and is expected to be approved by the Salvadoran Congress soon thereafter. The
IDB operation supports a set of policies and measures that are aimed at improving targeting
mechanisms for social programs and improving the information system of the country's main
safety net program, Red Solidaria. In addition to IDB, the strategy for this operation and
analysis of the country's fiscal situation was undertaken in close collaboration with the IMF,
which recently completed its Article IV consultations in El Salvador. Indeed, one of the main
policy recommendations of the recent Article IV consultations is that Government seeks the
necessary political consensus to gain access to long-term financing from the multi-lateral
development banks (MDBs).

                 Table 3. Links between the DPL and Prior Analytical Work
                 Analytical Reports ­ Findings and                 Links to DPL Actions (see Matrix of Policy
                 Recommendations                                        Actions and Expected Outcomes)
 Public          Annual increases in tax revenue are needed to    I.1 The government has implemented tax
 Expenditure     return to a non-financial public debt level that administration measures to fight tax evasion
 Review          allows for the required fiscal flexibility to    and raise tax revenues, through: (a) the
 (FY05)          respond to shocks, contingencies, cyclical       creation of a functional criminal investigation
                 economic management and to address the           unit within the tax administration office
                 country's needs in the social sectors.           (DGII); (b) the establishment of a cooperation
                                                                  agreement between DGII and Customs (DGA)
                                                                  to cross-check tax collection information, and
                                                                  (c) the creation of a functional internal affairs
                                                                  unit, organized within DGII.

                                                                  I.1 (Second tranche) The government has made
                                                                  progress towards raising tax revenues and
                                                                  continuing to fight evasion as evidenced by:
                                                                  (a) the implementation of a new tax on
                                                                  vehicles; (b) the introduction of an ad-valorem
                                                                  tax on alcoholic beverages; and (c) the
                                                                  installation and operation of x-ray machines
                                                                  and weight controllers in the customs posts of
                                                                  Acajutla, San Bartolo and Comalapa Airport.

                 Overall repetition and drop out rates remain     III.2 The Ministry of Education has (a)
                 high, and programs directed at addressing these  developed and implemented an education
                 problems should continue to be supported.        quality monitoring system using a standardized
                                                                  learning assessment for primary education
                                                                  students, and (b) developed a strategy to
                                                                  address    deficiencies   of  non    performing
                                                                  schools, including: (i) a monitoring system for
                                                                  teachers; (ii) a peer collaboration program to



                                                                                                             15

                                                                replicate successful experiences among public
                                                                schools;    (iii) enhanced      distribution  of
                                                                education material; and (iv) a training program
                                                                for teachers.

                                                                III.2 (Second tranche) The Ministry of
                                                                Education has: (a) implemented a strategy to
                                                                address non-performing schools deficiencies in
                                                                all schools with average grades of 5 point or
                                                                less in the PAESITA Test; and (b) undertaken
                                                                a special mid-term test for targeted non-
                                                                performing schools to assess progress and
                                                                improvements.
               The education budget should be increased in      III.3 The government has: (a) eliminated
               order to reach the necessary coverage rates in   tuition and graduation fees for secondary
               the primary, basic and secondary cycles.         education in regular public schools; and (b)
                                                                created 20,000 education grants ("cupos")
                                                                under the EDUCAME program.

                                                                III.3 (Second tranche) The government has
                                                                increased the number "cupos" under the
                                                                EDUCAME program by 10,000 and has
                                                                increased by 200 the number of "secciones"
                                                                (operating classrooms of up to 40 students) for
                                                                secondary education in public schools.
Country        The Government should expand the SAFI            II.1 Public financial management has been
Financing      software to those decentralized entities and     strengthened by the expansion of the integrated
Accountability extra-budgetary funds that are currently         financial management system (SAFI) to at
Assessment     operating outside the system.                    least 24 entities of the central government, 59
Report (FY06)                                                   decentralized public institutions and 2 public
                                                                enterprises.

Update on the  In order to continue advancing in the areas of   II.1 (Second tranche) Budget management has
Country        strategic allocation of resources, consideration been improved through: (a) the introduction of
Financing      could be given to the development of a medium-   a medium-term budget framework; and (b) the
Accountability term budget framework, with particular           piloting    of    a   result-based     budgeting
Assessment     emphasis on the "bottom-up" preparation of       methodology, including the use of performance
Report (FY07)  costed strategic plans and ensuing investment    indicators linked to budget allocations, in at
               programs, consistent with the "top-down" fiscal  least 2 central government agencies.
               framework
               The Ministry of Finance could broaden the        II.2 (Second tranche) The government has: (a)
               dissemination of interim reporting on public     issued regulations to enable and promote
               finances and investment programs, and in the     public access to fiscal information; (b)
               medium term it could make better use of          redesigned and launched an effective Fiscal
               information technology to enable customized      Transparency Portal.
               queries from citizens.
Country        The Government should develop and maintain       II.2 Increasing the transparency and efficiency
Procurement    an e-procurement system as part of the e-        of   the   public   procurement      system   by
Assessment     Government strategy starting with an e-          implementing      the    public     procurement
Report (FY06)  disclosure module and gradually moving to a      dissemination       module       MODIV        of
               compresenive electronic bidding system.          COMPRASAL in at least 172 Government
                                                                agencies and municipalities.




                                                                                                            16

                             VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. Poverty and Social Impacts

38.     Although none of the specific actions supported by this DPL is likely to have negative
social consequences, some of the actions could have significant distributional effects. For
example, even though the action plan to remove the electricity subsidy to firms supported by this
DPL has been broadly consulted by the government with the private sector, in principle the
elimination of the subsidy could have a negative impact on the productivity of country's largest
firms (as the removal of the subsidy does not affect small firms) and this in turn affect the firms'
labor decisions. Similarly, even though tax policy changes supported by this DPL are basically
aimed at offsetting (at least partly) other tax interventions (e.g. decline of taxes associated to
CAFTA) or target goods such as alcoholic beverages, they could have distributional
implications. On the social front, actions aimed at expanding the coverage of Red Solidaria to
additional municipalities would increase transfers to the country's lowest income households,
and over the longer-run, expansions of secondary education access to vulnerable groups would
also likely have distributional effects, as closing education gaps will likely contribute to closing
income gaps in the future. Thus although this operation is likely to promote poverty reduction, its
implementation will require monitoring of the distributional aspects.

39.     The Bank will support government efforts to monitor the distributional impact of
actions supported by this DPL with two AAA activities. The Bank has started preparation of two
pieces of analytical work that would be especially useful in measuring and analyzing the
distributional impacts associated to measures supported by this DPL: (i) a Public Expenditure
Review which would analyze the impact of changes in subsidies and taxation, with particular
attention to incidence concerns; and (ii) a set of policy notes and ongoing technical assistance
under the Human Development for Poverty Reduction program which would monitor the impact
of the expansion of Red Solidaria as well as developments with respect to education and health
services. Perhaps more importantly, both studies (together with ongoing information systems)
will be integral to the monitoring of the impact and outcomes of the Government program
supported by the DPL by complementing operational monitoring of the program (see below)
with more rigorous analysis of available data.

B. Consultations

40.     As highlighted in the description of the socio-political context for this operation, the
preparation of this DPL has been based on extensive consultations with political and civil
society actors. Taking into account the political context, the background for Bank involvement,
and the risks associated with the design of this operation, the Government and the Bank have
invested in a substantial consultation process with political actors, including the policy teams of
the ARENA and FMLN presidential candidates as well as the representatives of the various
parties in represented in Congress. In addition, discussions have been held with a wide range of
civil society organizations including think tanks, private sector representatives, and more activist
groups. Finally, the proposed Bank and IDB loans, and their implications for El Salvador's
macro-economic stability and continued socio-economic growth have been widely discussed in




                                                                                                 17

the local press and are, therefore, relatively well understood ­ and supported -- by the public at
large.

C. Monitoring and Evaluation

41.     The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of the DPL series as
well as for coordinating actions among the concerned line agencies, including, in particular,
the Central Bank, the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (for aspects concerning Red
Solidaria), and the Ministry of Education (for aspects concerning the education sector). Together
with the Ministry of Finance, these institutions will collect the necessary data to assess
implementation progress and report it to the Bank, taking into account both process advances and
service statistics, survey and other data that might be used to assess the achievement of the
program's end outcomes.

42.     The Government, through the concerned agencies, will prepare progress reports on the
implementation of agreed action plans linked to the second-tranche release. These reports will
be particularly important for second-tranche condition III.2 that involves implementation of a
strategy to address non-performing schools deficiencies. In this case, progress reports will
include specific milestones to help monitoring adequate and timely implementation of agreed
actions as well as detailed follow up of the strategy components.

43.     The Ministry of Finance and the Bank have also agreed to conduct joint reviews of
program progress on a semi-annual basis. These reviews will aim at identifying areas of
strengths and weaknesses, and possible assistance needed to maintain momentum toward the
planned medium-term outcomes. They will also assess possible downside risks and agree on
measures to address these to the extent feasible. A mid-term review will be undertaken in the
context of preparation of the next CPS, when the Government and the Bank will jointly evaluate
progress towards achieving the outcomes laid out for the DPL program and, if necessary, agree
on course corrections.

D. Environmental Aspects

44.     The Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have significant effects on
the environment, forests or other natural resources. Actions aimed at improving public
expenditure management and fiscal transparency, or at expanding social protection and education
are not likely to have a significant effect on the environment either directly or indirectly. This is
also likely to be the case for the actions aimed at improving the targeting of existing subsidies
and more specifically the action aimed at eliminating the electricity subsidy for firms. In fact, the
elimination of this subsidy may contribute to the adoption of energy efficient technology with
likely positive effects on the environment. Moreover, taking into account that the subsidy being
eliminated focuses on large firms, it is unlikely that this action will contribute to a change in the
source of energy used by firms (i.e. from publicly provide electricity to the used of private
electricity generation capacity).

45.     Moreover, since the late 1990s El Salvador has made significant progress in
establishing a solid legal and institutional infrastructure for environmental protection. As



                                                                                                  18

discussed in the FY06 Country Environmental Analysis, El Salvador has a sound ­albeit still
incomplete- framework for developing effective environmental policies. This framework
comprises a general environmental law and complementary laws that address specific
environmental concerns, particularly in forestry, protected areas, and mining, including
associated regulations and technical standards. The Country Environmental Analysis provided
recommendations to improve the country's environmental management capacities which are
being considered, and implemented as feasible, by the Government.

E. Fiduciary Aspects

46.     El Salvador's fiduciary environment for DPLs is adequate. As part of the Government's
overall long-term focus on public sector modernization, significant improvements in the
performance of budget and procurement management institutions have been made over the past
one and a half decade. To document the current state of public financial management in the
country and propose priorities for action, the World Bank and the IDB carried out in 2004 a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and a Country Procurement Assessment
(CPAR). While overall findings indicated that the environment is solid, the Government has
been moving ahead to further strengthen its public fiduciary control framework. In connection to
this, and as part of the DPL program, the Bank is engaged in public financial management
dialogue with the Government to follow up on recommendations made through the CFAA and
CPAR.

F. Loan Administration

47.     Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Republic of El Salvador and this
operation is a two-tranche loan of US$ 450 million equivalent. The first tranche of US$ 200
million would be made available upon loan effectiveness with the second, floating, tranche to be
disbursed in about 2011 when the Government has met the conditions for its release laid out in
the policy matrix. The Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into an account of the Central
Reserve Bank (BCR) denominated in US dollars, which is legal tender in the country. The BCR
will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the Ministry of Finance's Treasury Single
Account ("Fondo General"), thus becoming available to finance budgeted expenditures. Within a
week of the disbursement, the Ministry will provide the Bank with a written confirmation of the
receipt of funds. If, after deposit in the BCR, the proceeds of the Loan are not used as determined
above (including use for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement), the Bank will
require the Government to promptly refund the disallowed amount.

48.     The latest IMF review of central bank safeguards and of the country's public financial
management systems indicates that the Government has built a strong foundation for a well-
functioning budget management system and that controls in the banking environment into
which the loan proceeds will flow are adequate. In this context, additional fiduciary
arrangements (such as the use of a dedicated deposit account) are not deemed necessary in this
case. Moreover, the DPL program itself supports Government's efforts to continue to strengthen
public financial management and increase public access to fiscal information.




                                                                                                19

G. Risks

49.     The program supported by the Public Finance and Social Sector DPL is subject to four
main risks as follows: (i) political risks, given the political context in which the DPL has been
developed; (ii) macroeconomic risks, in the event of a deeper-than-anticipated global
deceleration; (iii) natural disaster risks, as the county is highly vulnerable to natural disasters;
and (iv) risks associated with the two-tranche design of the operation. These risks, and some
factors which tend to mitigate them, are described below.

     · The principal risk to the proposed DPL derives from the highly polarized political
        climate in El Salvador which could affect program implementation following the
        Congressional and Presidential elections in January and March 2009. The current
        uncertainty with respect to the outcome of these elections has given both dominant
        political parties an incentive to cooperate on key national issues and work out a focused,
        common program to address the looming fiscal crunch, and, hence, a window of
        opportunity to move forward with this DPL. However, once the elections are conducted,
        there is a significant risk that one of the parties could cease to cooperate, thus
        complicating the implementation of actions included in the second tranche of the
        operation. In particular, failure by the party of the new President to gain at least a simple
        majority in Congress could jeopardize the approval of new legislation (e.g., in the area of
        tax policy) that would allow for the second tranche release. This risk is mitigated to a
        large extent by the consultation process followed in the preparation of this DPL. While
        the current Administration has been the main counterpart in the preparation process, the
        program matrix and the structure of the operation have been discussed with the teams of
        the two main presidential candidates, so that the proposed operation reflects only areas in
        which there is significant consensus.

     · On the macroeconomic front, the main risks derive from the global financial crisis and
        more specifically from a deep and prolonged global deceleration.              As discussed
        previously, the current global situation is expected to negatively impact El Salvador as
        credit to the private sector becomes tighter, remittances and foreign direct investment
        growth decelerate, and the US demand for Salvadoran products declines. These factors
        have already been taken into account in the design of the program and in the projections
        developed for the medium-term. However, to the extent that the global slowdown lasts
        longer or is deeper than anticipated, and hence affects El Salvador more than projected,
        the government may find some difficulties implementing its program. Similarly, the
        outcomes of the program can be derailed. These risks are somewhat mitigated by the
        design of the program and by recent steps taken by the authorities to enhance crisis
        preparedness. A critical component of the effort to mitigate macroeconomic risks is
        related to the need for fiscal restraint, so the expansion in the fiscal envelope and the
        reduction of untargeted subsidies which are supported by this DPL will be steps in the
        right direction. Similarly, the expansion of Red Solidaria will mitigate some of the risks
        by improving income prospects for the poorest. The authorities have also taken efforts
        to minimize stress in the banking sector, including through the temporary increase of
        liquid assets requirements on banks.




                                                                                                  20

· The operation is also susceptible to risks deriving from natural disasters, to which El
  Salvador is subject by virtue of its geographic location. As with other Central American
  countries, El Salvador is highly vulnerable to multiple natural disasters risks ­floods,
  hurricanes and earthquakes. A major climatic or seismic disaster would, of course, pose
  a significant threat to economic growth and fiscal stability and can also delay the
  government's program. Government focus on building a strong safety net is intended in
  part to help the population's most vulnerable segments better withstand this recurring
  shocks. Nonetheless, occurrence of a major natural disaster during the implementation of
  the DPL program would likely imply a reassessment of the country's development
  priorities (at least temporarily). Should such an event occur, the ongoing engagement
  through the DPL would enable the Bank to support the Government in revising its
  strategy as needed to harmonize between short-term imperatives and medium- to longer-
  term socio-economic development goals.

· Finally, as suggested by the discussion of political risks above, the design of the DPL as
  a 2-tranche operation carries some inherent risk that second tranche benchmarks may
  not be met as currently agreed due to changing circumstances in El Salvador or
  exogenous shocks (including natural disasters). Nonetheless, the two tranche operation
  remains the instrument most suited to El Salvador at this time, given its national
  requirements for approval of public foreign borrowing. The team will maintain a close
  engagement with the government to minimize the risks to disbursement of the second
  tranche and ensure the satisfactory completion of the program.




                                                                                         21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            otd                                                                                                                         1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cilb                                                                                                                        40yb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      'snte
                                                                                                                                                                      nd-(e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oce                                                                                                               ework                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rnm                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                     medium-                                                                               es )
                                                                                                                                                                           m                                                                                                                                                                                                                   creaseni                                                                                                                     morf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pude                                                                                                                        ced                                                                                       Ju                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rgeta                                                                                                                      duer                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    et                                                                                                                           we                                                                                                                framd                                                                                                                  ve                                                                                                               callyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          urces
                                                                                            DPL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        has                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .7002ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Budg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           resp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            revid                                                                                                                base                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     strateg
                                                                                                                                                                            outco                                      FY2                                                                                                                                                                                oni                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PDG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             untfo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nt                                                                                                                   beensah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ltsu                                                                                                            goehtd

L
 DP                                                                                                                                                                              term                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ectlloc                                                                                                             GDfotn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                annoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           anlp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rce                                                                                                oftn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ies                                                                                    witht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lti-Yearu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                            easercni                                                                                                                                                                                        soercilbup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                               Expected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bsid
   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tax                                                                                                                     15                                                                                                perce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The                                                                                                                          su                                                                                   rcenep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Me                                                                                                                        aratp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0082                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Th                                                                                                                           pre                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                 have                                                                                                                     ab                                                                         use

      by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                              no                                                                                                                                                                                                 eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        k;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        otd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ctio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ntral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ress                                                                                                                        d                                                                                                                                                                                       tatio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                       tranche                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      og                                                                                                                       an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            seda

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x-rayfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ce2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          llers                                                    oolrtaBn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              firm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ewormraf                                                                                                            lt-b                                                                                                                                                                                                   nkeilsro
        Supported                                                                                                                                                                    e
                 be                                                                                           second                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    deams                                                                                                                    nue                                                                                                  asno                                                                               enmelp                                                                     eht)b(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            least

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rev                                                                                                   asive                                                                                                                                                           es;cl                                                                        emroal                                                                      eht)(cdna                                                                                                                      cont                                                     Sa,alutj                                                 t.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   has                                                                                                         trodunieht                                                                                                                   get                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ethgniduclin,y

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ad-v                                                                                                                                    eration                                                                                                                                                                          or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             bud                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     log                                                                             catdini
                   to                                                                                               for                                                               releas                                                                                                                                                                                 ha                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                imeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              resuafog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            atni,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nte                                                                                                                     tax

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rnm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          vehinoxat                                                                         an                                                                         ges;a                                                           op                                                                                                                     Aca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eliminated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     subsidy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nteme                                                                                                              (a):hg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ofn                                                                           ver                                                          andn                                                    weighd                                                          ofsst                                             rpiAa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           erm-t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          letelyp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ced                                                                                                                                                         ctio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nagam                                                                                                               routh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      odohtemg                                                                            nceamrorf
                     Actionsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pe                                                                            allocations                                      nte

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ublicp                                                                                                                                            oveg                                                                                                                 raisings                                                                                             ghtifotgnuini                                                                        (a):yb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        newa                                                                                                                                                        becilo                                                                                                                    esin                                                         pos                                               lapam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              om                                                                                                                                                                                            electricity                                                                                                                        com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ilotinpeth)                                                                                                                   etin                                                                                   of                                                                                                                              rnm
                                                                                                                       Conditions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The                                                                                                                      wardto                                                                                                                                                                                     enid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cont                                                                                 ev                                                                         of                                                                            troduin                                                                         cohal                                                   stallatioin                                                                                                                                                                     Cod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  mach                                                          cust                                                 an                                                                                                                                                The                                                                                                                        been                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                etgduB                                                                                                                ovrpmi                                                                                                           umdiema                                                                                                                 (bd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                  an                                                                                                                  udgb                                                                                 use                                                                                  budget                                      gove
                             Polic

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                      sahs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            otd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cilb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pude                                                                                                                             byd                                                                                                                July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          besi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rda
                                  Salvador
                                          El                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 yerap                                                                                                                )AVI(tn                                                                                                     x).ate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    om                                                                                                                                                      creaseni                                                                          omfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ect

                                                                                                                                 outcomes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rgeta                                                                                                                           reduce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                resp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       reutid                                                                                                                  dnad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   stand

                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   targeting                                                                                         of                                                                                                                  perce1.6                                                                                                     nc(i                                                                                                                                                          has                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           centrall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            togn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             been                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ounte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       erbm                                                                                                                      byd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Transparency                                                                                                                                                                                             ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rcent                                                                                                                                                        oni                                                                        DPGfotn                                                                       .3002ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .)n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PDG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  untfo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nt                                                                                                                              has
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 winio                                                                               llioim5                                                                                                                                                                        totaeht                                                                                                      nte                                                                                                                   acc,d                                                                                                        accordi                                                                                                               PFMla

                                                                                                                                         Expected                                                                                                                                                                                                          nue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pe41                                                                                                                                                       ectlloc                                                                           pe                                                                            oftn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rolled
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            improve                                                                                           Th                                                                                                                    creaseni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                           Tax                                                                            14                                                                            perce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The                                                                                                                          subsidies                                                                                                              illm82$                                                                               $32(                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                                                                       rnm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fiscal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0082                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  95%                                                                                                         go                                                                                                                 recorde                                                                                                              cont                                                                                                               ternin
                                              Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                        1.                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                        de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  )                                                                             n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           for

                                                                                                                                                                                            2008)                                                                                                               ent                                                                                                                    ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DGII.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I);                                                                         eratio                                                                                                                                                                                 (c)
                                                                                                                                                 first                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            itiatedin                                                     yidsb                                                                                                         has                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ethfo

                                                          Annex
                                                                                                                                                      forsn                                                                                                           spending                                     emplmis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     taxeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dna                                                      taxkceh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                agement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    de                                                                                                               emst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with                       llyau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      subsidy                                                                                                                stidnad                                                                                                                                                        su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         easuresm                                                                                                      raise                                                                                        onitaerceht                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GID(                                                                           coopa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (a)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DGII                                                                                                                      and,n                                        ternalnilan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 zed                         grad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   over                                                                                                                                                                              rcent.                                           Man                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nte                                                                                                             en                                                                                                                                                                                      institutions

                                                                                                                                                                                                 December                                                                                                                 ha                                                                                                                     oni                                                                                                                                                                                                              h:                                                alnim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cri                                                                           withit                                                                               fice                                                                            oft                                                                                                               oss-crcot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tioc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ses.irp

                                                                                                                                                           actio                                         (by                                                                                                                nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                             andno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eenw                                                                                                                       rmatio                                                                              gani                         to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               enebsahn                                                                                                                                                                 nagemamla                                                                                                ned                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       95,ntem                                                                                 public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              priority                                         rnm                                                                                                                  ratstnii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        enter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 asi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ev                                                                                              ugorht                                                                                                                                   un                                                                                                                                                                enm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ectricityle                                                                                                                appn                                                                                                                                                                                pe04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         bet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           he                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             least                                                                                                          rn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            onali                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      funa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lish                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                 bee                                                                                           tatio                                               electricityeht                                                                                                        nci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    at                                                                                                          ve                                                                                                                                                lic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ent                                                        (DGA)s                                                         fonin                                                                                                        lanpn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          gratetniehtfono                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                          go
                                                                                                                                                                Prior                                                                                                                                                             oveg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ofn                          or,tinu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nistrationi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tting                                                                                                                                                                                                        ngtrest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nagemamla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              alizedr

                                                                                                                                                                                                            tranche                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pub2d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         space                                        The                                                                                                                   admxat                                                                                                    taxt                                                                                                es,un                                                  nctufa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          figh                                                                                                 reve                                                    of                                                                           stigevin                                                                                 adm                                                                      estabeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          actio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  hass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nsi                                                                                                               nci                                                                                                                                                                                                                          alr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           llectio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               agreem                                                        Custom                                                               co                                          creatio                            affai                       An                                                                                                                            eliminate                                                                                                               rmfi                                                                                        enmlepmi                                                          cuyb              firmr                                  Expenditure                                  naficibl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        fo                                                                                     Pu                                                                                               been                                                                                                                           expa                                                                                                              nafi                                                                                                          (SAFI)                                                                                                         cent                                                                                 decent                                                        an

                                                               t          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fiscal                                                                                                                   lacsiF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ove                                                                                                                      fog                                                                                      public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ncea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g                                                                                                                                                                                                                dernizing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fin

                                                                Governmen  Priorities                                                                                                                                                                                                               Expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I.                                                                                                                     Ex1.I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Impr                                                                                                                     eting                                                                                       isting                                                                                                                                                                     Improve                                                                                                      Mo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Space                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I.2                                                                                                                       tar                                                                                          ex                                                       spendin                                                                                                            II                                                                                                      II.1                                                                                                                      public                                                                                                       management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s.r
                                                                                                                                                                      nd-(e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ation                                                                                       Portal,                                                                                                                                                                                         ro                                                                                                                                                                                                   gn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gnim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                ansfert                                                                                                                                                                                                    eht                                                                                                                                                                                           5%ot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    been                                                                                          07
                                                                                     medium-                                                                               es )
                                                                                                                                                                           m                                        011                                                                                                                                                                                                          accessiera                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cyn                                                                          dnas                                       n.                                                                                          rdedo                  SALARP                                                                                                                                               beiera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ds                                                                                                               ramgo                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                      orrfe                                                                                          byd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n-p                                                                                                                                                                                            has                                                                                           in                                                                       .1102
                                                                                            DPL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       hol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %8
                                                                                                                                                                            outco                                      FY2                                                                              specializeddna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          informeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sectcibl


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           groups                                                                                                                                                                                                                ansparerT
L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nanceficibl                                 ecu                                                                   pu                    rec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  llionim                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              exy                                                                  ual                      ent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      act                                      OMCnid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     preht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       easurem                                                                                              sts)teeht                                                                                      m                                                                         bysnt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fro

 DP                                                                                                                                                                              term                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    analyzing                                                                                        Fiscal                                                                          putu                                   etar                                                                    of                    urem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            bydre                                                                                                                                                                                                                            erbm                                                                                         (ass

                                                                                               Expected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nue                                                                                                                                                                                             ofs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ool                                                                                                                                                                                          ced                                                                        poitn

   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Population                                                                                                                 interested                                                                                                                       and                                                                                           the                                                                           abo                                    udgb                                                                                                            hesibl                                                                                                                                              seuoh0000,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            80                     proc                    pu                                                                                                                                                      12                                                                                                               cove                                                                                                                receive                                                                                                        Th                                                                                           sch                                                                                                score                                                                                     duer                                                                         perce

      by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (b)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               )                                                                         for

                                                                                                       tranche                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eotmo                                                                                                                                                                                                                evi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           co                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (a)                                                                                                                                                                                            lalni                                                                                                                                                                            (bd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ation;

        Supported                                                                                                                                                                    e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         inform                                                                                     fectfenad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 herrtuf)(a                                                                                                            lly                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            toa                                                                                                       lities.a                                                                                                          hanoi                                                                                      ressddaot                                                                                                                                                                                  tniop5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ents.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                an                                                                                                                                 otsol

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         encicifi                                                                                     esd                                                                               Test;                                                                                                                                   sc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         provem
                 be                                                                                           second                                                                                                                                                          edussi)(a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s:                                                                                                              prdnae                                                                                                                                                                                                                      he                                                                             Portal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gye                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d-termim                                                       ngi                                                          im
                   to                                                                                               for                                                               releas                                                                                             ha                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      des                                                                                     graeg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte                                                                                                               enablot                                                                                                                 fiscalot

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rnm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    uncaldnad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ha                                                                                                                aridi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rmo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         encyr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cipinum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ducatEfo                                                                                                                                                                                               ool                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              span                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rnm                                                                                                                   Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sch                                                                                                                                                                   PAESITAeth
                     Actionsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oveg                                                                                                               onsitalu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oorestp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            erfp-non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             access                                                                                           gne                                                                                 Tra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oveg                                                                                                                 eddn                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rystnii                                                                                   ratstade                                                                                                                                                                                       eravaht                                                                                                                                                      ecialpsan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ent                                                                                                                                                                                           wis                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ed                                                  progress

                                                                                                                       Conditions                                                                                                                                                                    The                                                                                                                    reg                                                                                                                    public                                                                                        redesi                                                                              Fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The                                                                                                                  expa                                                                                                          100eth                                                                                                                                                                                                        empl                                                                                            ngimrof                                                                                       ool                                                                                                                                                         rtake

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The                                                                                              im                                                                                                 per                                                                                       sch                                                                           lessro                                                                          unde                                                     rgetat                                                    assess
                             Polic

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ro                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gn

                                  Salvador
                                          El                                                                                     outcomes                                                                                                                sectcibl                                                                                                            rdedo                                                                                                                SALARP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bei                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              are                                                                                                              ramgo
                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pu                                                                                                               rec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ual                                                                                                                 ent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      act                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OMCnid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dsolh                                                                                                              preht                                                                                                          million

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $12.6                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                         Expected                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                               urem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  hesibl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ho00,0                                                                                                          bydre                                                                                                                                                                                             ersf

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            44                                                                                                                proc                                                                                                                  pu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         85                                                                                                             cove                                                                                                             receive                                                                         trans
                                              Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Groups
                                                        1.

                                                                                                                                                                                            2008)                          ehtd                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                 first                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  by                                                                                                                                                                                                          eludom                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at                                                                                                                                                                                                        Red                                                                                                                eth                                                                                                                 .                                                                                                                                   )(as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                       ciesn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                eted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              d                                                                               arym                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ngi                                                       ngriot                           r                           licate                                                                                                                  orf
                                                          Annex
                                                                                                                                                      forsn                                                                    easercnis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ande                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          emst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ring                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rep                                                                              terial;am

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sy                                                                                                                  cibl                                                                                    oni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       77                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               peea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  age                                                                                                                                                          program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ent                                                                                                                                                                                          rdize                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                        am                      edcna                                                           mar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nati                                                                      SA                                                                                                                                                            Vulnerable                                                                                                                                                       ine                                                                                                               targ                                                                                                                               hanoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          prir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fo                                                                    )b(dna                                                     esrddaot                                                     ormrf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pen                                                     onima)(i                        (ii)                                                                                   enh                                                           og

                                                                                                                                                                                                 December                               ha                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   empl                                                                                           itonom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        het                                                                                                                                                                                                             rnm                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cationu                         prg

                                                                                                                                                           actio                                         (by                              nte                                                                                                    efficiencydna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                entmre                                                                                                                                                                                                           ssemdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     litiesa                                                                                                                             ducatEfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    standaa                                                                             ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         hers;                                                                                 (iii)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              prog                                                                                     ed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rnm                                                                                                              cyn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ngi                                                                                                                                                           COMPRA                                                                                                                                                                                                       protection                                                                                                         erativpo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 teac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             xperiencese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ent                                                                                                                                                              of                                          Gove                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  imdnad                                                                                           ality                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nofo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       qu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               es                                                                                                                                                                              s;loo                            ofn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 using                                                                                                                                                                                                               gyetarstad                                                                                                                ng:iduclni                           for                                                       ulf                                                         tio
                                                                                                                                                                Prior                                                                           oveg                                                                                                             arep
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tranche                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ocurpcibl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         lities.a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 isa                                                                                                               cipinum                                                                                                                              rystnii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s,ntedustnoi                                                                                                                                                                                     s,                                                     rationo                                                    sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 empl                                                                                     urem                                                                    DI                                           172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              oc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The                                                                                                              trans                                                                                                                     pu                                                                                                                    im                                                                                         pr                                                                  MO                                            least         cipinum                                                                                                                                         cialos                                                                                                              aridi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M                                                                                       ope                                                                                                                                                                                              m                                                                               asgn                                                                                                                                     ope                                                      encici                                                             ool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The                                                                                                                Sol                                                                                                              oorestp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cationu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         stem                            llab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The                                                                                       devel                                                                                                 ed                                                                                       syste                                                                              earnil                                                                    educat                                                        devel                                                       defi                                                            sch                          sy                              co                    success                      licbup                         stribuid            ainintra)vi(d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                an teachers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Opportunities
                                                               t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       y
                                                                          /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                         y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ng                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                     no                                                                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ove                                                                                               pri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Secto                                                                                                                     arenc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      protecti

                                                                Governmen  Priorities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Enh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Expanding                                                                                                               Expandi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Impr                                                                                              ofyti

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       II.2                                                                                                                      Public                                                                                                                    ansprT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         verageoc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        III. III.1 the social programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          III.2                                                                                              qual                                                                                     education

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00,0
                                                                                                                                                                      nd-(e
                                                                                     medium-                                                                               es )                                                                                            rollmentne
                                                                                                                                                                           m                                                                                                                                                                                                38tuoba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    011
                                                                                            DPL
                                                                                                                                                                            outco                                      FY2                                                           ucationde                                                                                     byd

L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ry

 DP                                                                                                                                                                              term                                                                                                                                                                                                 reasecni                                                               s.nt
                                                                                               Expected
   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Seconda                                                                                       beot                                                               udest

      by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d

                                                                                                       tranche                                                                                                                                 ehtd                                                                                                                                                                                  an                                                                          fo                                                                      ofs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ber                                                                      oomr                                                   yar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nd
        Supported                                                                                                                                                                    e
                 be                                                                                           second                                                                                                                               easercnis                                                                                     hetr                                                                                  000,01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     de                                                                                      by                                                                       numeht0                                                                   assclgni                                                                               s.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        secor                            oolh

                   to                                                                                               for                                                               releas                                                                ha                                                                                         un"                                                                                     ram                                                                                                                                                                                                           fo                              scci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nte                                                                                         posu                                                                                    og
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rnm                                                                                                                                                                                  E                                                                      20ybd                                                                      perato("
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nts)edust
                     Actionsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oveg                                                                                                                                                                               AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ber                                                                                                                                                             creaseni                                                                                                                              40                       ublpninoi

                                                                                                                       Conditions                                                                                                                                       The                                                                                          num                                                                                 EDUC                                                                             has                                                                   secciones"                                                topu                            educat
                             Polic



                                  Salvador
                                          El                                                                                     outcomes
                                            of


                                                                                                                                         Expected

                                              Government
                                                        1.

                                                                                                                                                                                            2008)                                                                                                                  noita                                                                                 ni
                                                                                                                                                 first                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (b)d                                                                                                                                 AME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             grants
                                                          Annex
                                                                                                                                                      forsn                                                                )(a                                                                                          gradu                                                                                                                                                             an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EDUC

                                                                                                                                                                                                 December                       ha                                                                                           andn                                                                          education                                                                        ls;o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the

                                                                                                                                                           actio                                         (by                      nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           scho                                                               cationude
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 itiotu                                                                             ndaryo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rnm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            licb                                                                                                                             under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                Prior                                                                   oveg
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tranche                                                                                                                    atedinm                                                                                                                                                          pu                                                                  20,000                                                        s")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             for                                                                          lar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The                                                                                               eli                                                                               fees                                                                         guer                                                                 created                                                    cupo("                             ramgo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pr

                                                               t          /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                     oolh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 scy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Expand
                                                                Governmen  Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             III.3                                                                                access                                                                opportunities                                                                 second

                               Annex 2. Debt Sustainability Analysis

50.     The outlook on El Salvador's medium-term macroeconomic prospects has deteriorated as
a result of the global financial turbulence experienced over the second half of 2008. The debt
sustainability analysis in this Programs Document is based on the macroeconomic framework
developed for the IMF 2008 Art. IV Staff Report, which already incorporates the expected
negative impact that the global financial turbulence experienced during the second half of 2008
will have on the Salvadoran economy.

51.     Before the crisis, growth was expected to moderate to about 4 percent per year over
2008-2009 and recover to 4.5 percent over 2010-2013. The new medium term macroeconomic
framework projects growth in the range of 2.6 to 3.5 percent from 2009 to 2011. After 2011
growth would be expected to reach 4.5 percent. This growth rate would be underpinned by
structural reforms adopted during the last decade, further integration of the Salvadoran economy
into the global economy, continued output diversification, and an increase in public spending in
infrastructure. Inflation is expected to fall to 3 percent as the inflationary impact of commodity
prices abates and domestic demand adjusts to restore the external equilibrium.

       Table A2.1. Composition of long-term public debt (NFPS) as of December 2007
                                                            US$ (million)    % of total debt
         Total                                                   7,081            100

         By residence
         Internal                                                 863              12
         External                                                6,218             88

         By creditor
         Multilateral                                            2,334             33
         Bilateral                                                644              9
         Private                                                 4,103             58

         Currency composition
         US$                                                     5,948             84
         Euro                                                     212              3
         Yen                                                      283              4
         Other                                                    708              9

         Average terms
         Debt with interest rates lower than 3%                  1,841             26
         Debt with interest rates between 3% and 6%              3,186             45
         Debt with interest rates between 6% and 8%              1,133             16
         Debt with interest rates between 8% and 9%               921              13

         Maturity
         Between 1 and 5 years                                   1,062             15
         Between 6 and 10 years                                   708              10
         Between 11 and 20 years                                 2,549             36
         More than 20 years                                      2,762             39
         Source: Central Bank of El Salvador



                                                                                               25

52.      Table A2.1 present the stock of long-term debt of the Non Financial Public Sector as of
December 2007. It indicates that El Salvador's long-term NFPS debt is mainly (i) external debt
(88 percent of total debt); (ii) with private creditors (58 percent of total debt); (iii) US$
denominated (84 percent of total debt); (iv) with interest rates between 3 and 6 percent (45
percent of total debt); and (v) with maturities above 10 years (75 percent of total debt).

53.      The debt sustainability analysis (Table A2.2) indicates that an average primary surplus of
1.3 percent of GDP would be needed between 2009 and 2013 to obtain a public debt-to-GDP
ratio that would gradually fall to 32.7 percent of GDP. This primary surplus would be consistent
with an overall public sector deficit of 1.1 to 2.2 percent of GDP between 2009-2011 and of .5
percent of GDP over 2012-2013.


                                Table A2.2. Debt Sustainability Analysis
                                                                    Projection
                                                    2008  2009    2010    2011   2012     2013


 Total External Debt (%of GDP) 1/                   46.6      46   44.9    43.9    42.4   40.6
 Public Debt (% of GDP)                             40.5    40.4   38.8    37.1    34.9   32.7


 Key Assumptions
 Real GDP growth (%)                                 3.0    2.6    3.0     3.5     4.0    4.5
 Inflation (%, e-o-p)                                9.0    6.0    4.0     3.0     3.0    3.0


 Growth of real primary spending (% of GDP)          8.5    2.8    3.2     1.7     2.2    3.9
 Primary balance (% of GDP)                          0.0    0.2    1.1     1.4     1.9    1.9


 Nominal interest rate on public debt (%)            6.4    6.5    6.5     6.7     7.0    7.3


 Growth of exports (US dollar, %)                   12.5    4.1    7.5     8.4    7.7     7.2
 Growth of imports (US dollar, %)                   11.7    2.0    5.1     5.6     6.0    6.4


 Non-interest current account balance (% of GDP)    -3.5   -2.7    -2.0   -1.4    -0.9    -0.8
1/ Includes both Public and Private Debt.

54.      In the absence of a crisis scenario, the medium term external position of El Salvador
remains sustainable. Higher public and private savings would lead to a gradual decline in the
external current account deficit to about 4 percent of GDP by 2013. This level, which appears to
be broadly in line with the structural current account determinates, would allow total external
debt to fall to 41 percent by 2013.

55.      The main risks to the medium-term outlook are associated with the global financial
turmoil as well as with the ability of the new administration to maintain macro stability and push



                                                                                                26

structural reforms in a very volatile environment. Table A2.3 presents projected debt dynamics
under more pessimistic alternative scenarios:

   o Under less optimistic growth scenarios (3 percent over 2008-2013) than the one in the
       baseline (3.5 percent over 2008-2013) ­scenarios A1 and B1- the total external debt to
       GDP ratio would be about 1 percentage point of GDP higher than under the baseline
       scenario, whereas the public debt would be 2.4 percentage points of GDP higher than
       under the baseline scenario.

   o Under tighter financial market conditions resulting in higher interest rates both for the
       external and the public debt of around .5 percentage points over 2008-2013 ­scenarios
       A2 and B2-, projected debt indicators for 2013 would be 1.2-1.3 higher than under the
       baseline scenarios for both external and public debt.

   o Under a more difficult external environment ­scenario A3- resulting in a higher current
       account deficit (.5 percentage points of GDP), the total external debt to GDP ratio would
       reach about 43 percent in 2013.

   o Under a looser fiscal policy -scenario B3- with an average primary balance surplus of .8
       percent of GDP over 2008-2013 rather than the assumed 1.3 percent of GDP under the
       baseline scenario, the public debt to GDP ration would be in 2013 about 2 percentage
       points of GDP higher than under the baseline scenario.

   o Scenarios projecting the impact of contemporaneous shocks (albeit more moderate than
       those in A1-A3 and B1-B3) -scenarios A4 and B4- would result in indicators for 2013 of
       42.9 percent of GDP and 35 percent of GDP for the external and public debt respectively.

   o Scenarios based on key variables fixed at historical levels differ dramatically depending
       on whether historical averages are based on the last 5 or 10 years. For example, using
       average data for the last 5 years ­scenarios A5 and B5- would result in an external debt to
       GDP ratio 2013 projection that is about 2 percentage points lower than under the baseline
       and in a public debt to GDP ratio that is basically unchanged with respect to the 2008
       level. Instead, using 10 years average ­scenarios A6 and B6- would result in an external
       debt to GDP ratio 2013 projection that is almost 5 percentage points lower than under the
       baseline and in a public debt to GDP ratio that is 4.4 percentage points higher than the
       level in 2008. This last figure is motivated by the significant differences between the
       baseline scenario and the historical data based on the past 5 and more dramatically 10
       years, when the country had to face not only the reconstruction associated to an
       earthquake, but perhaps more importantly from the debt sustainability analysis
       perspective the fiscal pressures associated to the pension reform.

   o The final scenario in Table A2.2 simulates the impact of a shock to the exchange rate in
       2009 (which would require de-dollarizing the economy) equivalent to a 30 percent
       nominal depreciation. It indicates that such a shock would increase the stock of external
       debt to 58 percent of GDP in 2013, and the stock of public debt to about 61 percent of
       GDP in 2013.



                                                                                               27

                Table A2.3. Debt Sustainability Analysis: Alternative Scenarios
                                                             2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
External Debt Sustainability Analysis


A1. Real GDP growth is baseline minus 1/2 s.d.               46.6 46.2 45.4 44.5 43.2 41.6
A2. Interest rate on external debt is baseline plus 1/2 s.d. 46.6 46.2 45.4 44.6 43.3 41.8
A3. Non-interest CAB is baseline minus 1/2 s.d.              46.6 46.4 45.9 45.4 44.3 43.0
A4. Combination of A1-A3 using 1/4 s.d. shocks               46.6 46.4 45.9 45.3 44.2 42.9
A5. Key variables are at their 5 year historical averages    46.6 44.9 43.0 41.4 40.0 38.7
A6. Key variables are at their 10 year historical averages   46.6 44.3 41.8 39.6 37.7 35.8
A7. One time 30 percent real depreciation in 2009            46.6 68.6 65.9 63.7 60.8 57.7


Public Debt Sustainability Analysis


B1. Real GDP growth is baseline minus 1/2 s.d.               40.6 40.8 39.5 38.3 36.6 35.1
B2. Interest rate on public debt is baseline plus 1 s.d.     40.6 40.7 39.3 37.9 35.9 34.0
B3. Primary balance is baseline minus 1/2 s.d.               40.6 40.9 39.8 38.6 36.9 35.2
B4. Combination of B1-B3 using ¼ s.d. shocks                 40.6 40.9 39.8 38.5 36.8 35.0
B5. Key variables are at their 5 year historical averages    40.6 41.0 40.9 40.8 40.8 40.8
B6. Key variables are at their 10 year historical averages   40.6 41.9 42.6 43.3 44.1 45.0
B7. One time 30 percent real depreciation in 2009            40.6 69.8 67.9 66.1 63.8 61.4




                                                                                         28

                    Annex 3. El Salvador Broad Based Growth DPL series

The FY04 ­ 08 Country Assistance Strategy for El Salvador proposed to channel most of the
financial assistance through a series of three DPL operations for a total amount of US$300
million (US$100 million each). The DPL series was designed to support the Government's
medium term development strategy to accelerate broad based and equitable economic growth
and to contribute to the Government's objectives of: (i) reigniting growth, particularly through
increased private investment and trade; (ii) reinforcing macroeconomic stability and
strengthening fiscal sustainability; and (iii) increasing the efficiency and transparency of public
sector management.

Although only the first operation was actually approved and implemented, the Government
actually completed implementation of the entire program. Specific actions supported by the DPL
series included:

DPLI (prior actions completed and loan disbursed)

DR-CAFTA treaty signed and dissemination programs launched.
Implementation of Competition Law.
Creation of the Centro de Trámites Empresariales.
Implementation of the fiscal reform package approved in 2004.
Elimination of early retirement provisions to improve sustainability of the public pensions
system.
Launch of an e-Government strategy.
Issuance of operational directives for procurement unit UNAC.
Ministry of Finance adopted public sector internal control norms consistent with international
standards.

DPLII (prior actions completed but loan cancelled)

Ratification of DR-CAFTA and launch of programs to ensure broad participation in its benefits.
Securitization Law approved by the National Assembly.
Consumer Protection Law approved by the National Assembly.
Increase of excise taxes approved by the Assembly and later successfully implemented.
Issue budget formulation policy for 2006 consistent with a NFPS deficit target of 2.3% of GDP.
Issuance of new rules on loan classification, provisioning and credit risk administration
consistent with international best practices.
Progress in implementing the e-Government strategy. Launch and implementation of the
payments portal and module for publication and dissemination of public bids (MODDIV).
Issuance of implementing regulations for Procurement Law.
Ministry of Finance finalized its project for internal control system regulation.

DPLIII (prior actions completed but loan not prepared)

Creation of Superintendence of Competition.



                                                                                               29

Expansion of the Centro de Trámites Empresariales outside of San Salvador.
Creation of the Consumer Protection Agency.
Banks began implementation of new rules on loan classification, provisioning and credit risk
administration.
NFPS deficit at 3% of GDP for 2005.
201 public institutions including all central Government ministries use the Dissemination
Module (MODDIV).
Expansion and implementation of SAFI in all Central Government institutions and ISSS.




                                                                                         30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

             Annex 5. El Salvador--Assessment Letter to the World Bank
                               Statement by the IMF Staff
                                    December 1, 2008
The latest assessment by the Executive Board is presented in the Public Information
Notice of March 14, 2008 (http://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/pn/2008/pn0836.htm).
The last Article IV Consultation discussion took place on November 12, 2008.

Economic growth is decelerating and inflation has started to come down against the
backdrop of a slowing U.S. economy and the reversal of high commodity prices.
Growth in economic activity slowed to 3.5 percent in the year to August, while inflation
fell to 7.4 percent y/y in October, driven mainly by the fall in oil and food prices. FDI
flows are expected to halve in 2008 after their unusually high level in 2007 related to the
foreign purchase of banks. The banking system--now mainly foreign-owned--is highly
liquid and has so far been resilient to the global financial turmoil. However, financial
conditions have tightened, reflected in higher sovereign spreads and domestic interest
rates, and are expected to get tighter as elections draw closer. The real exchange rate is in
line with fundamentals and several indicators suggest that exports remain competitive.
The external and public debt stocks were at 46 and 41 percent of GDP, respectively, by
end-2007.

The near-term outlook is clouded by the global financial crisis, political uncertainty,
and the U.S. slowdown. Growth is expected to fall to 3 percent in 2008 and 2 percent in
2009, with risks on the downside. Inflation will rise to 7.5 percent in 2008 and then
moderate to 4.5 percent in 2009, aided by easing commodity prices and the strong
nominal anchor provided by official dollarization. The current account deficit is projected
to stay at 5.5 percent of GDP in 2008, while moderating in 2009, in part due to lower oil
imports, though lower remittances and a higher non-oil import bill would partly offset the
improvement. The main risk is that external financial conditions and electoral
uncertainties lead to significant deposit withdrawals and undermine the government's
ability to raise funds.

Fiscal and financial policies will be crucial to support macro stability and contain
potential risks in the run-up to the January 2009 congressional and municipal, as
well as the March 2009 presidential elections. The authorities are committed to
maintaining fiscal restraint by proposing a 2009 budget consistent with a fiscal deficit of
about 2.4 percent of GDP (a primary surplus of 0.1 percent of GDP), compared to an
estimated deficit of 2.4 percent of GDP in 2008, while expanding well-targeted social
programs to address the impact of commodity price increases on the poor. To address any
financing shortfalls, the government has secured a credit line with a regional
development bank (CABEI). To further strengthen banks' liquidity, they introduced an
additional 3 percent liquidity requirement, and are developing an action plan to deal with
situations of stress in banks.

Over the medium term, further structural reforms will be needed to enhance the
economy's resilience and create conditions for higher growth and faster poverty
reduction. These include increasing public spending on infrastructure investment
(particularly transport) and social programs, reducing and better targeting energy
subsidies, passing structural financial sector reforms (including the financial supervision
bill), strengthening the central bank's lender-of-last-resort functions, and bolstering the
deposit insurance fund.



                                                                                  38

                                     Annex 6. El Salvador
                                  Addendum to the Proposed
                  Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan


The purpose of this addendum is to update Executive Directors on a number of developments
that have taken place since distribution to the Board of the report "El Salvador -Public Finance
and Social Sector Development Policy Loan" (P114910) which is scheduled for Board
consideration on January 22, 2009.

As noted in paragraph 14 of the Program Document, at the time of distribution of the report the
authorities were exploring the possibility of a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF. Indeed, an
IMF mission team traveled to San Salvador in the second half of December and reached
agreement at the technical level for a SDR 513.9 million (US$800 million) 15-month Stand-by
Arrangement. The Salvadoran authorities intend to treat the arrangement as precautionary and do
not intend to draw on it unless required by currently unforeseen events. An IMF Board has
scheduled discussion of the Arrangement for January 16, 2009. Bank staff stands ready to
update Executive Directors following that IMF Board date.

In this context, the IMF team has updated the medium term macroeconomic framework (table 1)
which differs slightly from the one in the distributed report, particularly as regards: (i) growth
projections which have been revised downwards by 0.1 percent in 2009 and 0.5 percent point in
both 2010 and 2011; (ii) end of year inflation projections which are now expected to decline
faster than anticipated as a result of lower commodity price projections; (iii) the public sector
deficit which is now expected to be about 0.5 percentage points higher than before; and (iv) debt
to GDP ratios which are now slightly higher as a result of the revised projections for the deficit
and a lower nominal GDP. These changes do not affect the overall conclusion in paragraph 16 of
the report regarding the adequacy of the country's economic fundamentals for Bank development
policy lending.

A second development that has taken place since distribution of the report relates to the US$500
million IDB operation referred to in paragraphs 14, 21 and 37 of the Program Document. As
noted in the report, the authority granted by the Salvadoran Congress to the government to
negotiate this proposed DPL was part of a package that also included authority to negotiate
another loan with the IDB. In this regard, the IDB's operation, which was considered by the IDB
Board on November 25, 2008 received final approval by the Salvadoran Congress on December
18, 2008.

A third development regards the approval by the Board of the IDB of a US$400 million loan
under the IDB's Liquidity Program for Growth Sustainability window on December 17,
2008. The goal of this operation is to facilitate access by the private productive sector to
financial resources to help sustain the country's economic growth. Its purpose is to
provide the Central Bank with funding to acquire short-term loan portfolio receivables for
working capital and trade financing, and to provide financial institutions with liquidity to
grant new short-term loans for working capital and trade financing in accordance with
program requirements.




                                                                                               39

                        Table 1 Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: Base Case
                                (percentage of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                      2008     2009    2010     2011   2012   2013
Income and prices
GDP growth (% change)                                  3.2      2.5     2.5      3.0    4.0    4.5
Inflation (cpi end of period % change)                 5.5      3.8     3.5      3.0    3.0    3.0
Investment and savings
Gross domestic investment                             15.4     15.3    15.9     15.9   15.7   16.6
Gross domestic savings                                 9.4     12.5    12.5     12.5   12.5   13.5
Consolidated Public Sector
Total revenues and grants                             17.0     17.2    18.6     18.4   18.5   18.5
  Total tax revenue                                   13.2     13.6    14.3     14.6   14.7   14.7
Total expenditures                                    19.8     20.1    20.2     20.0   19.8   19.5
   Current expenditure                                16.9     16.7    16.5     16.4   16.2   16.0
   Capital expenditures                                2.9      3.4     3.8      3.6    3.6    3.5
Primary balance                                       -0.5     -0.5     0.7      0.8    1.1    1.1
Overall balance                                       -2.9     -2.8    -1.7     -1.6   -1.3   -1.0
Public Debt
Total debt                                            40.0     41.5    40.7     39.7   38.5   36.5
  O/w external                                        23.9     24.0    22.8     21.5   19.7   17.5
External public debt servicing (% of exports)          8.7     12.5    10.2     11.5    9.1    8.0
Balance of Payments
Current account balance                               -6.0     -2.7    -3.4     -3.3   -3.2   -3.1
Trade balance                                         -19.9    -16.5   -16.8    -16.6  -16.6  -16.7
  Exports of goods (f.o.b)                            21.3     21.1    20.8     21.2   21.3   21.2
  Imports of goods (f.o.b.)                           41.2     37.6    37.6     37.8   37.9   37.9
Foreign direct investment                              1.9      1.4     1.9      2.4    2.9    2.9
Remittances                                           17.2     16.6    16.1     16.1   16.1   16.2
Memorandum Item
Nominal GDP (billions of US dollars)                  22.2     23.6    24.9     26.4   28.3   30.5
Source: Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and staff estimates.




                                                                                                 40

41

