Strengthening Financial Management and Protecting Social Programs in El Salvador
                                                                                                      94072
                                                                                                      April 16, 2012




 IBRD Loan Helps Government Boost Tax Revenue and Increase School
 Enrollment


Overview
As El Salvador grappled with the impact of external shocks in 2008 and 2009, it turned to the
World Bank for financial and technical assistance to strengthen its financial management and
protect social programs that are critical to the poorest people across the country. With the
support of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the government was
able to both improve its tax revenues and also increase key social programs that reached
nearly 100,000 households, as well as boost secondary school enrollment by more than 38,000
students.


Challenge
Building fiscal pressures in 2008 started to affect El
                                                                     More Results
Salvador’s ability to make continued steady socio-economic
progress. Moreover, a global economic slowdown, financial

                                                                    98,000
market instability, high food and fuel prices, and declining
remittance growth were already beginning to have a negative
impact on the country’s economy. In turn, this raised
concerns that social gains could be threatened going                households were covered by the
                                                                    social program Comunidades
forward. In this context of heightened uncertainty, the             Solidarias in 2010
government requested support from the World Bank to
implement a program based on external borrowing and
internal reforms to ensure sustained progress on social
service provision and the strengthening of public institutions.
                                                                    20,000
                                                                    students per year in non-
Approach                                                            performing schools were
                                                                    benefited by the government
The World Bank’s approach to assisting El Salvador                  strategy to improve the quality
benefited from extensive consultation, preparedness, and            of primary education
flexibility to adapt to the country’s circumstances. In addition
to the socio-economic challenges described, El Salvador
faced challenges associated with a polarized political              LEARN MORE
environment. Accordingly, Bank staff worked to promote
consultation and consensus-building activities. Analytical         Project Details :
work also helped inform stakeholders, build consensus               El Salvador Public Finance and
around important development issues, and prepare the                Social Sector DPL
groundwork for future engagement in areas of mutual
interest.


Results
The Public Finance and Social Development Policy Loan for El Salvador supported
improvement in several areas:

      Medium-term fiscal sustainability
             Tax revenues increased to 15.2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) for the
             period July 2010 - June 2011, up from 14.1 percent of GDP in 2007, surpassing
             the project target.

             Untargeted subsidies fell from US$336 million (1.5 percent of GDP) in July 2008
             to US$217 million in June 2011 (less than one percent of GDP). The government
             also improved the targeting of subsidies for electricity, water, and gas.

      Social protection and education
             The social program Comunidades Solidarias , which includes a Conditional Cash
             Transfer program, was implemented in the 100 poorest municipalities of the
             country and covered 98,000 households in June 2010.

             The government reduced the number of non-performing schools from 410
             schools in 2007 (eight percent of primary schools) to 204 schools in 2010 (four
             percent of primary schools), meeting the project target and benefiting more than
             20,000 students per year in non-performing schools. 

             The total enrollment in secondary public and private schools increased by more
             than 38,000 from 594,700 students in December 2009 to 633,369 students by
             December 31, 2010.

       Governance and transparency in the use of public resources
             The multi-year budget preparation process and the results-based framework
             increased the government’s ability to more strategically plan for the use of public
             resources.

             The government also enabled public access to information on public finances
             through the Fiscal Transparency Portal. In addition, the government exceeded
             the target for actual procurement published in COMPRASAL (a state-of-the art
             public procurement dissemination tool), with 92 percent of procurement being
             recorded as of December, 2010.




Bank Contribution
This Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan from the IBRD comprised two
tranches totaling US$450 million and it was approved on January 22, 2009. The Bank
continued providing assistance to key policy areas through the Sustaining Social Gains for
Economic Recovery Development Policy Loan (US$ 100 million, approved on November 24,
2009) and the Public Finance and Social Progress Development Policy Loan series (first
operation of US$100 million, approved on June 2, 2011).


Partners
The project was complemented by a similar US$500 million loan from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB). In addition, the strategy for this operation and the analysis of the
country’s fiscal situation was undertaken in close collaboration with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF).


Moving Forward
The Bank has continued providing assistance through the Sustaining Social Gains for
Economic Recovery project, which supported the government’s immediate measures in the
anti-crisis plan to protect the poor, while supporting the process of economic recovery. It has
also approved the Public Finance and Social Progress loan series, which is supporting the
government’s program to improve its ability to ensure sustainable social spending, enhance
social gains, and protect vulnerable segments of the population. Finally, the World Bank
prepared two technical assistance loans to El Salvador that assisted the government in the
design and implementation of the social and fiscal agenda.


Beneficiaries
While the Bank project to help El Salvador improve its public financial management benefited
the country as a whole, a large group of individuals and households benefited directly from the
social and educational programs. The program Comunidades Solidarias benefited more than
90,000 households in the 100 poorest municipalities. The government strategy to improve the
quality of primary education also benefited more than 20,000 students per year in non-
performing schools. Finally, the efforts to improve access to secondary education helped to
bring more than 38,000 students into the country’s secondary schools.
