Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4519-UR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 18, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Hank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Uruguayan New Peso (s$)
US$1.00 = N$195
N$100    US$0.00513
(February 28, 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
OPP - Office of Planning and Budget



FOR OMCLAL US ONLY
URUGUWAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN ANl) PROJECT SUJDARY
BORROWER:                 Government of Uruguay
Amount:                   US$1 million
Terms:                    15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Banks's standard variable interest rate
Financing Plan:           IBRD                        US$1,000,000
Government                   US$255,000
Total            US$1,255,000
Economic Rate of Return:  n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:   n.a.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



NEIORAJDUI AND RECOMNMDkrIONS OF THE PR9Sh'r4if
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND D VELOPRWIT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIEMCTORS
ON A PROPOE  LOMA  TO THE-REPULIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        The following report on a proposed loan to Uruguay for US$1
million equivalent is submitted for approval. It would finance several
studies related to policy areas included in the Structural Adjustment Loan
which is submitted for your approval under a separate cover. The loan
would be repayable over 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. Contracting of the consultants for
the various studies will be carried out by the Office of Planning and
Budget (OPP) on behalf of the Government.
2.        Background. Since its assumption of power in ti'arch 1985, the
Government of Uruguay has been developing a medium term economic strategy
designed to stabilize the economy (which had been in a deep recession from
1982 to 1985) and restore economic growth, reduce the burden of Uruguay's
existing external debt, improve public finances, reduce inflationary
pressures, and encourage investments and exports. In pursuit of these
goals, the Government has: (i) negotiated a stand-by arrangement with the
IMF for the eighteen-months period that ended in December 1986; (ii) signed
an agreement with commercial banks rescheduling US$2.1 billion in external
debt over twflve years at substantially reduced interest rates; (44i)
reduced export taxes and eliminated restrictive regulations within the
agricultural sector; (iv) implemented a scheme to restructure existing
internal debt of over-indebted private enterprises; and (v) continued its
policy of allowing free convertibility of the domestic currency through a
managed float and non-interference in private banking operations including
capital flows and interest rates.
3.        In early 1986, the Government obtained the approval of the
opposition parties for a far reaching economic program to follow-up and
deepen existing reforms and encourage further economic growth without
reigniting inflationary pressures. In support of this program, the
Government requested Bank support for a structural adjustment program. The
planned structural adjustment program will address the serious imbalances
in public finances, which present a critical obstacle to growth, first and
foremost by launching a far-reaching reform of the social security system,
and second by other reductions in current public expenditures and continued
measures to increase revenues. The program also entails measures to
increase investment, which is crucial for higher growth. Public investment
is to be increased and its effectiveness enhanced through measures to
program and monitor investment more effectively. Private investment will
be stimulated by continuing measures to restructure the financial sector,
notably dealing with the over-indebtedness affecting many firms and
creating a new legal framework to facilitate the development of a capital
market. Finally, the program includes measures to promote export growth
and above all diversification, because Uruguay remains critically dependent
on a few exports, which face market uncertainties.



-2-
4.        Project Objectives.  The proposed project will provide the
Government with the analytical batse for preparing specific action programs
and with needed technical assistance to implement key elements of the
Structural Adjustment Program. The studies and technical assistance
activities are designed to define policy options, prepare medium-term
strategies, and strengthen and reorganize key public sector management
functions.
5.        The specific objentives are:
(a) to support the program to strengthen social security finances and
administration, and its initial implementation;
(b) to improve the technical capacity of the OPP to analyze, program,
and monitor public sector investments;
(c) to support Government efforts to improve the tax system and to
reduce tax evasion;
(d) to modernize capital market legislation;
(e) to update import tariff analysis; and
(f) to initiate a program of administrative reform with emphasis on
personnel policies.
6.        Project Description.  The propoaed technical assistance project
will finance the cost of the studies which will be carried out over the
period 1987-88 and which will provide the analytical framework and lead to
action programs in various areas covered under the Structural Adjustment
Program as follows:
(a) on social security finances and administration, aiming at
supporting the program to restore financial equilibrium to the
social security system by determining long-term feasible level of
benefits, sources of financing and the administrative
arrangements to implement the program;
(b) on fiscal reform, aiming at further rationalizing the tax system
structure and reducing tax evasion;
(c) on public investment programming, to help improve the planning
and budgeting process;
(d) on capital market improvements, to support revisions of the
outdated bankruptcy and corporation laws;
(e) on administrative reform study, to evaluate the Government's
existing salary and incentive policies; and
(f) on import tariff review, to examine the effect of alternative
modifications to the tariff regime on particular subsectors.
7.        The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$1.255
million of which $1 million is in foreign exchange, (including US$225,000
for computing equipment). The detailed cost estimates and disbursements



- 3 -
are provided in schedulea A and B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of Bank group operations in Uruguay is given in
schedules C and D, respectively. The terms of reference for the
consultants were agreed upon during negotiations. The consultants will be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracting of the
consultants will be handled by the OPP on behalf of the Government.
Because of the small amount, procurement of computing equipment will be
done under looal procedures on the basis of quotations from at least three
suppliers.
8.        Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank has been involved in
the Gove-nment's structural adjustment program since its inception,
including major reforms in the agricultural sector which served as a basis
for the US$60 million agricultural sector loan in FY 85. The Bank
supported a co-financing operation in the power sector which was part of
the debt restructuring and new money package agreed upon with the
commercial banks in September 1986. The present operation will finance the
studies required for the action plans under the SAL. The studies will
support a deepening of structural reforms and their implementation; the
program is expected to lead to substantial improvement in Government
finances (social security, tax system, civ.41 service employment), better
operations of capital markets, further tariff liberalization, and
institutional improvements in the areas of progra-ming and budgeting. The
positive impact of these reforms through increased public sector
efficiency, reduced inflationary pressures, and reduced competition for
available savings, will result in increased investment and economic growth
and will help attain the goals pursued by other Bank projects in the
industrial, agricultural, transport and energy sectors.
9.        Agreed Actions. With the Government on:  (i) nominating the OPP
to coordinate and supervise the implementation of all studies; and (ii) the
timetable for execution of the studies. Agreement on the action plans
related to the public investment programming and capital market
improvements studies will form part of the conditions for release of the
second tranche of the SAL.
10.       Justification. The project will contribute towards the effort to
achieve a substantial reduction in the Government's deficit through reforms
of the social security system, tax administration, civil service
employment, and improved investment budgets. Other actions will facilitate
capital formation in the private sector and further import tariff
rationalization.
11.       Risks. The main risk is that some actions will encounter
politically opposition and might not be passed by the Assembly.  However,
the cost of the studies is relatively minor and the Government's
demonstrated ability to obtain Congressional approval of sensitive reforms
bodes well for success in implementing the recommendations of the studies.
12.       Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed lo&n-.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 18, 1987



-4-
Shiedul. A
URUGAY
TECHCAL ASSISTACE PROJC
Eatimated Costs:                      Local    ForeinA    Total1
A. Consultants Services
Social Security Studies           35         100         135
Fiscal Reform Program             40         120         160
Public Investn4ent Programming    40         120         160
Capital Market Legislation        20          60          80
Import Tariff Reform              15          35          50
Administrative Reform             50         150         200
Sub-total                  200          585         785
B. Computing Equipment                  -         225         225
C. Training Fellowships                30         100         130
Contingencies                      25          90         115
TOTAL                      255         1000        1255
!n!A!Ri  P=:
Local                 Total
-(US*houasds
Bank                                        1000        1000
Government                       255         _           255
TOTAL                      255         1000        1255
1/ The project would be exempt from taxes and duties.



-5-
Schedule B
VEFOIChL ASSSTAMNC PROJRO
Consultants will be contracted based upon a short list agreed upon with the
Bank. Selection of the consultants will follow Bank guidelines. Computing
equipment will be procured under local procedures on the basis of
quotations from at least three suppliers.
Category                        Amount              Percentage
(us$o00)
A. Consultant Services         585      75% of total expenditures
B3  Computing Equipment        225      100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
C. Training Pellowship         100      100% of foreign expenditures
Estimated Disbursements
1988           1989
TOM00oo by Ba FkY)
Annual                         600            400
Cumulative                     600           1000



-6-
schedule C
TBEGfICAL ASSISTANCE PROJ3CT
Timetable of Ke_ Proceasing Bvents
(a) Time taken to prepare project:              5 months
(b) Project Prepared by:                        Planning and Budget Office
(e) First Bank Mission:                         May 1986
(d) Appraisal Mission;                          October 1986
(e) Negotiations:                               April 1987
(f) Planned date for Effectiveness:             September 1987



-7
Schedule D
Pop I of 2
A.L     ~   otp RpxK  iW   (asof 1arrb 31, i91)
Aeuat
No.    Year           Bormer                                         Bar   Uixabured
163 tg1y disb.sed                                                    Z74.6
1594   191           Uigy                   Vocatical Treinrg         9.7     1.4
1689   1979          uW                        B                     25.4     0.8
179B   19EK)         ANPl                    porb                    37.0     5.0
181   19)                                   Aa alal Dwelopint  24.0    11.2
193D   1X1           uIW Ixtrlel Credit                              13.7     0.0
2s,   1982           A     /-               T             os         24.0    24.0
2Z28   19X            U nuu                  Ri*DMB                  45.0    33.9
2484   196           21P                     Power                    4.0     3.7
2622   1906           UIW                    Pare                    45.2    45.2
Total                                                   50e.6
of *ic  has be  reA                                   25.6
Total now artatuig                                      297.0
hwunt sold                  4.6
ofubchbasbeumirepsid    4.6 
Total no held ty BErk                                   297.0
Total ujndibirsed                                               12.0
I/ NatioLl Port Adristraticn
/ NatLaona                   AdPestratim
Nationl Pov Camw



-8-
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
SYAYUUNT 01 110 IlnnUVnY( (as of  ~1.March 31,1_
Fiscal                                       Type of        (Amount in US million)
Year            Obligor                      Businesa        Loan   Equity   Totl
1979     Fabrica Uruguaya de            Motor vehicles       3.80     _        3.80
Neumaticos                        and accesories
1979     Acodike Supergas S.A.*          Chemicals and       0.95      -       0.95
petrochemicals
1979/    Astra Pesquerias                Food processing     6.22    2.25      8.47
1983      Uruguayas S.A.
1980     Sur Invest Casa                 Money and capital  10.00    0.59    10.59
Bancaria S.A.                  market
1985     Azucitrus S.A.                  Food and food       7.80    2.40    10.20
processing
Total gross commitments                            28.77    5.24    34.01
Leos cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             12.47     -      12.47
Net held by IFC                                    16.30    5.24    21.54
Total. undisbursed                                  3.81    0.75      4.56
Fully repaid



-9-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
URUGUAY - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SCOPE OF CONSULTANTS STUDIES
I * BACKGROUND
1.       The Bank has financed substantial technical assistance in the
context of ongoing Bank operations in Uruguay as follows:
(a) Vocational Training Project (Loan 1594-UR) - The loan includes
*                    consultants services for staff training and specific vocational
training courses;
(b) Highways II (Loan 1689-UR) and Highways III (Loan 2238-UR) -
These loans include technical assistance to the planning unit of
the Ministry of Transport and various expert services in the
areas of highway engineering and traffic safety;
(c) Port Project (Loan 1798-UR) - The loan finances consultants ta
carry out a maintenance dredging operation, a port master plan
and cost accounting and administration;
(d) Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1831-UR) - The loan
includes funds for staff training and transfer of agricultural
technology;
(e) Second Industrial Credit (Loan 1930-UR) - The loan financed con-
sultants to carry out a tariff reform study and to conduct a
preliminary study of the social security system;
(f) Telecovmunications Project (Loan 2033-UR) - The loan provides
funds for a management and administration study; and
(g) Power Engineering Project (Loan 2484-UR) and Power Sector
Rehabilitation (Loan 2622-UR) - These loans finance varioua
operational and planning studies designed to improve operating
practices and reduce system losses.
2.        The experience with provision of technical assistance to Uruguay
has been generally satisfactory and the consultants' recommendations are
given adequate attention with a reasonable share of the recommendations
properly implemented. However, consultant recruitment often takes longer
than expected because of the complex approval procedures (involving various
agencies including the Government's auditing organization) as well as the
right of appeal given to firms whose bid is not successful. Also, the
Uruguayan authorities have on occasion opposed the choice of consultants
following the Bank guidelines (e.g. Port and Telecommunications Projects).
The latter issue, however, has not proved an obstacle since the new
Government took over from the Military in March 1985.
3.        The previous policy-based loan to Uruguay (Agricultural Sector
Project, Loan 2468-UR, US$60 million) included two consultants studies.
The first involved a review of the operations and regulations of the



- 10 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
National Neat Institute and the second involved revision of lending
practices of Banco de la Republica (the state development bank). Both
studies have resulted in action plans agreed upon with the Bank and in
substantial improvements Ao the regulatory atmosphere in the sector,
increased agricultural exports and acceleration of lending and investments.
II. PROPOSED STUDIES
4.        The proposed loan includes several studies related to critical
reform areas which are addressed under the Structural Adjustment Loan as
follows:
(a) Social Security Finances and Administration
Introduction
5.        Uruguay's social security system developed quickly during the
early part of the present century. It has a comprehensive coverage in
terms of population and programs. However, it is becoming increasingly
difficult to finance the system and measures are needed to restore its
financial equilibrium. The system required Central Government transfers
amounting to 3.8% of GDP in 19e5, not counting the Government contribution
as employer. The system serves an aging population with high life
expectancy; the ratio of active workers contributing to the system to
beneficiaries is very low (1.2). Population growth is low (0.5% a year
owing to emigration) and the system cannot handle the financial
consequences of an increasing number of beneficiaries.
Objective
6.        The principal aim of the technical assistance is to help prepare
a specific administrative program and an implementation schedule for the
reform to restore financial viability to the social security system. The
program specific objective is to make the system self-financing by the year
2000.
Scope of Program
7.        The program will support sustainable long-term levels of
benefits, and contribution levels by source. It will consist of short-term
(increased contributions) and medium- to long-term measures (e.g.,
increasing retirement ages, providing equal uniform benefits for all
beneficiaries, eliminating special regimes and multiple retirement
benefits) to achieve financial equilibrium of the social security system.
The study will require about 10 months of consultants' input. About
$200,000 in computing equipment is also included.
8.        The technical assistance will consist of:
(A) Completion of the Analysis of the situation of the social
security, including the changes introduced by the Government's
reform program. The study will cover:



- 11--
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
(i)   classification of beneficiaries by age, sex, and average
benefits;
(ii)  projections of the working population, potential number of
new beneficiaries by age, sex, proportion of average
benefits to earnings, and proportion of active workers
contributing to the system;
(iii) analysis of the financial implications of the projections;
(iv)  detailed recommendations about the long-term soundness of
the system;
(v)  analysis of the impact of the proposed regime on employment,
savings and investment, and Government transfers.
(B) Preparation of a program of administrative reforms for:
(i)  establishing a single identification number for social
security contribution and taxpayer's obligations;
(ii) establishing a penalty system to discourage non-compliance
and late payments, and for control and reduction of evasion;
(iii) requiring periodic reporting by enterprises;
(iv) reduction of late payments;
(v)  design of computer programs for the above, together with
acquisition of equipment.
(b) Fiscal Reform Program
Introduction
9.        With the structural reforms initiated in the early 1970s, the tax
*         system has been the subject of several efforts to streamline its structure
and eliminate distortions in relative prices between capital and labor, as
well as those favoring import-substitution compared to export activities.
The Government has already undertaken several tax measures under the
Agriculture Sector Loan and the SAL program, such as reduction of import
tariffs, reduction in agricultural export tax, revision of the income tax
regime for agricultural producers, and extension of the value added tax to
agricultural sales. Nevertheless, there is still room to further
rationalize the tax system structure.
Objective
10.       The principal aim of the study is to analyze the impact of the
most recent tax reforms and to look at the current structure and possible
ways of restructuring the tax system to provide adequate incentives for
investment, production and exports, and reduction in tax evasion.



- 12 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
Scope of the Study
11.       The analysis will require about 12 months of consultant time.
Some computer equipment ($25,000) will also be acquired under this
component. The study should include the following topics:
(i)  analysis of effe^tiveness of current direct and indirect
taxation;
(ii) impact of the tax system on economic activities by sector;
(iii) relationship of the various taxes to domestic production;
(iv) proposed changes to existing consumption tax (IMESI)
patrimony taxes and corporate tax;
(v)  preferential treatment of exports and investments (e.g., tax
exemptions and their impact on increasing exports), and
relationship to the GATT agreements;
(vi) changes to strengthen the antidumping mechanism; and
(vii) conclusions and recommendations, including an action plan to
implement the proposed reforms of the tax system, and to
increase effectiveness of tax collection.
to) Public Investment Programming
Introduction
12.       Public investment in Uruguay has been traditionally concentrated
in a few large parastatals (Power Co., Telecommunications Co. and Ports
Administration) and the Ministries of Transport and Defense. Within these
entities, some large projects play a major role in determining investment
levels. Under the Uruguayan planning system, all Ministries and public
sector enterprises prepare five-year investment programs, which are
submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Planning and
Budget Office (OPP). The Ministry of Economy concentrates on the
investment plans of the various Ministries and the OPP on the public
enterprises. However, the investment plans are to a large extent nov
formulated as a list of projects prepared by each implementing agency with
limited screening and review. The OPP authorizes yearly investment
ceilings for all public sector agencies.  The responsib-4lity for making the
project selection within this ceiling and for implementation rests
primarily with the executing agencies.
Objective
13.       The objective of the proposed technical assistance is to
strengthen the OPP and the sectoral planning units to improve investment
programming and project formulation, execution and monitoring.



- 13 -
ANNEX I
*age 5 of 9
Scope of the Study
14.       Preparation of a public investment program consistent with the
country's financial resources and priorities is a critical component of the
structural adjustment program. The OPP has requested technical assistance
to strengthen its capacity to analyze, program, and monitor investments as
well as its capacity to provide guidance to other public agencies in the
preparation and evaluation of new investment projects. In preparing the
SAL program, the Bank has assisted the Government in preparing a publio
investment program for 1987-89 and has completed a preliminary review of
the OPPFB capabilities and technical assistance needs, including those
currently provided by the IDB. The proposed loan would finance two experts
for a total of about twelve months, to be attached to the OPP. In
addition, the loan would finance training fellowships for OPP staff for
about US$100,000.
15.       The technical assistance should cover the following elements:
(i) strengthening of the structure and procedures used by the
main implementing agencies to identify, prepare, select and
follow-up projects;
(ii) improvements of budgetary procedures and their relationship
to programming public investments in a medium-term
framework;
(iii) analysis of the institutional framework and procedures for
decision-making regarding the level and composition of
public investment in each sector, including the role,
staffing and methodology used by the Ministry of Economy and
the OPP;
(iv) generation of information for monitoring projects under
execution, and for preparation of new projects;
(v) adequacy of budget allocation for recurrent expenditures and
institutional framework to determine such allocations, at
the agencies, Ministerial and OFP levels;
(vi) design of procedures to measure actual vs. programmed
investments and analysis of deviations; and
(vii) a program to support OPP in the implementation of the action
plan to strengthen its planning procedures and the sectoral
planning units in the Ministries and other executing
agencies.
(d) Capital Narket
Introduction
16.       The capital market in Uruguay is in a very rudimentary stage.
Ownership of stock in public corporations is not very popular since



- 14 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
information is scarce, existing stock is closely held, and minority rights
are not well protected. The use of industrial bonds is rare and ¢ompanies
are relying on the commercial banking system for all their financial needs
which results in an undesirably high portion of short-term debt on their
balance sheet. Most of the activity of the Montevideo Exchange is
concentrated in trading of Government notes and bonds. Uruguay needs to
strengthen its capital market by providing adequate incentives to investors
and protecting the rights of shareholders and creditors. The Government
has already taken steps to improve capital market operations by introducing
a leasing law and an investment banking law (now under Parliamentary
consideration).
Objectives
17.       The aim of the technical assistance would be to improve the
capital market framework and reduce financing cost to corporations by
introducing new laws in the fields of corporate, securities, and bankruptcy
procedures.
Scope of the Study
18.       The consultants will assist with the preparation of naw laws in
the fields of corporate, bankruptcy and securities procedures. About six
months of consultant's time is programmed. The corporation law 'fill update
the existing law and will ensure that its provisions are adequate to meet
the requirements and operations of modern corporations, including
dissemination of information, auditing requirements, protection of
minorities' rights, etc., which will encourage wider public participation
in channeling savings for equity and long-term bond financing. The
bankruptcy law will eliminate the existing obstacles to creditors in
exercising their rights in case of non-payment and will streamline
liquidation procedures in cases of default. The combined regulations will
provide incentives to corporations, creditors (including commercial banks)
and the public to participate in capital formatio. beyond the existing
media of deposits, short-term loans and purchases of Government bonds.
(e) Import Tariff Regime
Introduction
19.       Uruguay's efforts at a tariff reform began in the early i970s.
As a result, significant progress has been achieved in reducing effective
and nominal protection. Currently, import tariff rates are in a range of
10-45% down from a level of over 100% in the late 70's. This represents a
very serious effort on the part of the Government to reduce protection and
force Uruguayan producers to be competitive.



- 15 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 9
Objective
20.       The study will update and review the analytical basis to guide
further tariff reductions, and assure that tariff rationalization is
consistent with the Government's economic growth and development targets.
Scope of the Study
21.       The promotion of exports is a key objective of the Structural
Adjustment Program. The Government is concerned with the impact that
further changes in the tariff regime will have on particular subsectors.
To assist the Government in analyzing the impact of import tariff reforms,
as well as in determining what additional tariff adjustments or other
measures may be needed to reduce effective protection, the proposed loan
would finance the continuation of previous studies initiated under the
Second Industrial Credit (Loan 1930-UR). About 3.5 months of consultant's
time would be required to update the tariff protection studies as the
Government proceeds with further tariff rationalization.
(f) Administrative Reform Program
Introduction
22.       The Government recognizes that the increase in public sector
employment registered in recent years must be checked and then reversed.
In addition, the authorities share the widespread perception that public
services are inadequately delivered and that there is a mismatch between
required skills and the qualifications of many public employees.
23.       To address the above-noted issues, the Government reinstated the
National Civil Service Office in July 1985, recognizing the need for sub-
stantial reforms aimed at a more equitable pubilc service in which
promotions are linked more closely to quantifiable performance.
24.       The Government has already under consideration:  (i) a moderniza-
tion of the Statute of Personnel to define more clearly the rights, duties
and obligations of civil servants and to introduce new techniques of
recruitment and performance coordination; (ii) the orderly reclassification
of posts and grades according to established performance criteria; (iii) a
national computerized register of public servants; and (iv) the establish-
ment of a national institute dedicated to the training of high-level
personnel.
Objectives
25.       The study will analyze general levels and qualifications of civil
service employment aiming at developing a leaner and adequately staffed
civil service. The study will also examine and revise the procurement
procedures of public organizations which impede delivery of efficient
services.



- 16 -                   ANEX I
Page 8 of 9
Scope
26.       The study should cover the following topics:  (i) analysis of the
salary and incentive policies, including the impact of multiple employment
practices on the effic4ency of the public administration, and possible
steps to remedy the situation--appropriate salary levels, changes in work-
ing hours, etc.--to retain and attract an adequate number of skilled civil
servants; and (ii) analysis of the organization and practices in public
administration, including staffing levels, personnel policies, skills and
qualifications of public employees, administrative procedures, etc.  The
analysis will cover Central Government, public enterprises, and the
Municipality of Montevideo; (iii) legal framework constraining the reform,
such as the constitutionally guaranteed job security for those who hold
budgeted posts; and (iv) procedures governing procurement for public
investment projects and the relationship and control exercised by the
central administration over state enterprises. The study will elaborate
specific recommendations and plans of action to implement suggested changes
leading to a more efficient and leaner public adminietration while
retaining a satisfactory number of qualified personnel.
Project Organization and ImElementation
27.       The Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) would have overall
responsibility for coordinating the implementation of the technical
assistance program. Detailed terms of reference for the studies will be
agreed during negotiations. The consultants selection will be in
accordance with Bank guidelines, and consultants' contracts would include
specific timetables for each phase of their work. Implementation
arrangements for each study, including the appointment of needed
counterpart staff, would be reviewed by the Bank prior to the appointment
of the consultant or expert concerned. The bulk of the studies is expected
to be completed by mid-1988. The project is expected to be comDleted by
March 31, 1989.
28.       The OPP will send to the Bank quarterly progress reports.  In
addition, progress of the studies will be monitored by the Bank during
supervision of the SAL. The Government will review with the Bank the
findings and recommendations of each study and prepare, when appropriate,
plans of action, satisfactory to the Bank. The studies on public
investment programming and capital market improvements will be completed by
August 31, 1988 and all other studies not later than March 31, 1989.
(g) Project Cost and Financing
29.       Total cost of the technical assistance program, net of taxes and
duties, is estimated at US$1.255 million equivalent. This total includes;
studies costing US$785,000, equipment US$225,000, training US$130,000, and
contingencies US$115,000. The loan would finance the US$1 million foreign
exchange component (see Schedule A).
Procurement and Disbursement
30.       Contracting of consultants will be carried out by the OPP, on
behalf of the Government, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement



-17 -                                I
Page 9 of 9
of computing equipment, financed out of the loan proceeds and estimated to
cost US$225,000, would be carried out under local procedures on the basis
of quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts above US$50,000
will be submitted for prior Bank review. The Bank would disburse 75% of
the total cost of consultants, 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of the
local expenditures of the cost of computing equipment purchased locally,
and 100% of foreign expenditures for training fellowships.
31*       The OPP would establish and maintain accounts for all project
expenditures under the proposed loan in a clearly identifiable manner.
Such accounts and supporting records would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the year.
Benefits and Risks
32.       The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed loan
is designed to support implementation of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program, both in carrying out policy actions and programs
already agreed, as well as in preparing the way for additional reforms in
key areas. The program will support the Government's efforts to reduce the
fiscal deficit by controlling the transfer to the social security system,
reducing cost of public service employment, and improving tax structure and
collection. The studies will also support increased investment, production
and economic growth through improvements in incentives for capital
formation and better public sector investment programming.
33.       There is a risk of delays in the appointment of consultants,
which could jeopardize timely implementation. However, since the
completion of some studies is required to develop the action plans for the
second tranche disbursement of the SAL, we expect that the delays will be
minimized. There is also a risk that some recommendations of the studies
will not be implemented as fully or in as timely a fashion as desired,
given the political nature of some of the issues. However, implementation
of policy recommendations and specific action programs would be closely
monitored as part of continuing discussions between the Bank and the
Government in the context of the Structural Adjustment Program, and the
Government's satisfactory record in obtaining Parliamentary approval of
sensitive economic measures, assures the program a reasonable success.
May 18, 1987



31'
I-.
tu>                                            B R A  Z
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ v9.                   BRAZ, IL t
* +  _  =      R   A   >     XPa*<§er°'\\  8 R A Z |A LCE&
32'
it ~ YON -C.tc  /X  7               _X
<ve~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ $.I



.  F\,,,,,eO$:\o{/'                                       .                                                                                                                             c
Th v4A  TRESN
| ~ ~ ~ ~ c-                        de;                  '~l                                         e                                                                                                                                     4 t1
:SAD#'mSv-/~~~~~~~HaX,Cl IOS
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bt1                                                                                                             ~n  -               :      ;          R 
A~~~~~~a M E R i                     C A___  nodRd
C-o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ CU
PJ4AJ    IGNACIO
-3'ARGENTINA                                                                                                                                           PumaOdTEVIDtO
URUGUAY
iE,tw     P0.0d Mo.i Roodi
SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                             -      t0d Seo-w  Rod
AME RI CA                                                                                                                                                                                                 ilepav.  Roo4s
liCe 'MRp *i bee prWewd by The W1d 8e*'s    owkot xI, for tie QoCWietiI of                               4---.Re,ivm*
tiWe Jere and ;S    d0wbY#1 1t      ci. Of t/bouxVt del an tfi LV do nOkitUWitiws
o en tie pwt of The I        tbd    a  t,.SW eNWhfnw Fw7_t'h C_.wU7. a  imnt                                        Nvg~   Chooof
URUGUAY                                                                                on tie t ul S* otf  taNlw of any _d ne  or ac o of t   biano                                                         Ir     to    A..porn
>   tv+                                                                                                                                                                                           Dowt Aarpots                    _
C                                                                                                            O_ ____ 100_______                                  0                                                $    RiM PonS 
>                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS                                                                 '            partmwt Boedr                  I
-    W Ie~o.or.,o  .ndee-
.<                                     57.                                                                                                                                        *,r                            _
31                         ~~~~~~~se                               51'                                   5,5                                    5S>_                                     



