Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14778
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
AND
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIAT,10lY..
AFE           - Siaw Railway Company
ANP           - National Port Administrati.in
BCU           - Central Bank of Uruguay
BROU          - Bank of the Republic
BPS           - Social Security Bank (previously DGSS)
CND           - National Development Corporation
DINAMIGE   - National Office of Mining and Geology
DGI           - State Tax Agency
IDB           - Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          - International Monetary Fund
IVS          - Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Program of Social SecufiI-,
MEF           - Ministry of Economy and Finance
MERCOSUR - Common Market for the Southern Cone Countries
MTOP          - Ministry of Transportation and Public Works
MYRA          - Multiyear Rescheduling Agreement
ONSC         - National Office of Civil Service
OPP          - Planning and Budget Office
OSE          - State Water Company
PLUNA        - State National Airline Company
SAL          - Structural Adjustment Loan
TAL           - Technical Assistance Loan
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Uruguayan New Peso (NUr$)
US$1 = NUr$4.30
NUr$1.00 =US$.023
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Program Completion Report on Uruguay - First Structural Adjustment Loan
(Loan 2836-UR) and First Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2843-UR)
Attached is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Uruguay First Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL I-Loan 2836-UR, approved in FY87) and the First Technical Assistance Loan (TAL
I-Loan 2843-UR, approved in FY87) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. The Borrower's review was confined to SAL 1.
SAL l's main objectives were to (a) strengthen public sector finances, particularly social security
finances; (b) improve public sector management and programming; (c) promote sound banking and
capital markets; and (d) reduce effective protection to domestic activity and encourage exports.
SAL I achieved some successes: (a) the public sector deficit was reduced in 1987; (b) social
security legislation narrowed the system's benefits and financial gap; (c) draft legislation on leasing,
investment banking, securities, corporations, and bankruptcy was presented to Parliament; (d) trade
policy reforms lowered tariffs and improved export competitiveness; and (e) the public investment
programs for 1987-89 and 1988-90 were prepared. However, performance in a number of areas (public
enterprise reforms, the central bank's regulatory and supervisory framework, public investment
programming processes) fell short of expectations; a constitutional referendum in 1989 increased social
security expenditures; and Parliament failed to pass the proposed bankruptcy law. For these reasons,
this PCR review rates SAL I's outcome as marginally satisfactory and its institutional development
impact as modest. Many of the same reforms (of social security, public sector management, financial
sector) required support under SAL II, implying that their continuance was in question. Sustainability
of SAL I benefits is therefore rated as unlikely.
TAL I's objective was to support SAL I through training, computer equipment purchase, and
numerous studies in areas covering reforms of the social security system, fiscal accounts, public
investment programming, public administration, capital market development, and the trade regime.
However, the fiscal study was ultimately dropped (a new component on the reprivatization of
commercial banks was added), and the emphasis was shifted in some components to less significant
issues than those originally identified.  Nevertheless, a number of the studies resulted in draft
laws/decrees and the setting up of new agencies. This PCR review therefore rates the outcome of TAL
I as marginally satisfactory and its institutional development impact as modest. Sustainability, which
the PCR does not discuss explicitly, is not rated and will be taken up in the planned audit.
The PCR is weak: for neither loan does the PCR provide a systematic discussion of the specific
conditionalities, their implementation and outcomes, or the sustainability of specific actions.
Since the follow-up operations-SAL II and TAL II-have significant overlaps with SAL I and
TAL I, a combined audit of all four operations is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................  ii
PART I. MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK .......  1
INTRODUCTION    ......................................    1
A. Program  Identity   .....................................    1
B. Background   ........................................    1
C. Identification, Preparation and Appraisal .......................    2
II.  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN  .........................                                               3
A. Program  Objectives .....................................  3
B. Issues and Risks ......................................    4
C. Project Implementation   .................................    5
D. Disbursements and Audits ................................    6
E. Project Results.  .......................................  6
F. Bank and Borrower Performance .............................  7
III.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN  .                     ............................  7
A. Introduction  ......................................                                          7
B. Description and Results of the Studies  .........................  8
Public Finances Management .            ..............................  8
Social Security Finance and Administration  ....................  8
Public Investment Programming  .........                  ..................  8
Administrative Reform  Program   .........                ..................  9
Financial Sector .....................................    9
Capital Markets .....................................  9
Reprivatization of Commercial Banks .......                  .................  9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Trade Policy Reform   .........  .        ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .    . 9
Import Tariff System  ........  ..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
C. Implementation and Results ........  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 9
D. Disbursements and Credits  ........ .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
E. Bank and Borrower Performance ....... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
IV.    FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED  .......  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
PART II.  PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . 12
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .15
Table 3. 1 Related Bank Loans .15
Table 3.2 SAL I Program Timetable .16
Table 3.3  SAL I Cumulative Estimated Disbursements .16
Table 3.4  SAL I Program Estimated Costs and Financing .16
Table 3.5 Macroeconomic Performance .17
Table 3.6  SAL I Status of Covenants and Conditions .18
Table 3.7  TAL I Status of Covenants and Conditions .19
Table 3.8       A. SAL I/TAL I - Staff Inputs  .................  20
B. SAL I/TAL I - Key Missions  ................  20
Table 3.9   TAL I Project Timetable .......................  21
Table 3.10  TAL I Total Project Costs ......................  21
Table 3.11  TAL I Financing Plan  ........................  21
Table 3.12  TAL I Loan Disbursements .....................  22
Table 3.13  TAL I Timing of Estimated Disbursements ....              ........  22
Key Project Data .       ..................................  23
Annex I  ........................................   25
Annex 2  ........................................ 30



- j -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the First Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL I) for US$80 million and for the First Technical Assistance Loan (TAL I) for US$1.0
million to the Republic of Uruguay. The SAL I loan was approved on June 16, 1987, signed
on September 2, 1987, and became effective on October 20, 1987. The final disbursement
took place on June 6, 1988, prior to the scheduled closing date of December 31, 1988. To
facilitate the implementation of SAL I, the Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2843-UR) for
US$1 million, was approved simultaneously. TAL I was closed on September 30, 1991 with
total disbursements of US$.87 million; US$.13 million was cancelled on February 6, 1992.
Parts I, II, III, IV and VI of this PCR were prepared by the Bank's Country Operations
Division (LA4CO) of Country Department IV in the Latin America and Caribbean Region.
They are based on the Report and Recommendation to the President on the First Structural
Adjustment Loan (Report No. P-4518-UR, dated May 18, 1987), Report and
Recommendation to the President on the First Technical Assistance Loan (Report No. P-
4519-UR, dated May 18, 1987), internal Bank memoranda and documents, and
supplementary information provided by the Government of Uruguay. Part V of the PCR was
prepared by the Government.
The Bank takes the opportunity to express its appreciation to the Government of
Uruguay, for its close collaboration during the design and implementation of the SAL I and
TAL I, and its support in the preparation of the PCR.






- ii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The First Structural Adjustment, SAL I (Loan 2836-UR) of US$80 million was
designed to support the Government's structural adjustment and recovery program, which
endeavored to create the conditions needed to stimulate economic growth and strengthen the
country's creditworthiness to facilitate a resumption of voluntary commercial financing. To
that effect, the loan supported actions towards: (a) strengthening public sector finances;
(b) financial sector reforms to strengthen the commercial banking system; (c) enhancing
export-led growth by reducing implicit export taxation through import tariff reform and
introduction of export incentives; and (d) improving public investment programming and
project implementation. Success in achieving these goals was mixed.
The First Technical Assistance, TAL I (Loan 2843-UR) of US$1.0 million was
designed to support SAL I. TAL I provided funds to hire consultants for studies and
technical support on social security, fiscal reform, public investment programming, import
tariff reform, administrative reform, and capital market legislation. It also funded the
acquisition of equipment for the social security's revenue collection unit. This funding was
to supplement support already available under other Bank loans (Second Industrial Credit,
Loan 1930-UR) and economic and sector work activities.
Implementation Experience and Results
Public finance reforms contributed to a continuous reduction of the public sector
deficit from 6.3 percent of GDP in 1985, to 4.9 percent in 1986, and 4 percent in 1987.
The loan emphasized reforms in the social security system, and improved
management/pricing in public sector enterprises. As a consequence, in 1987, the Parliament
approved legislation to increase revenues and tighten some benefits in the social security
system, a first step towards gradually bringing the system's finances into equilibrium. Many
public enterprises improved their administrative practices, reduced personnel, and maintained
a consolidated surplus position. In 1988, however, public finances began to deteriorate, a
result of negative external shocks and the lack of consolidation of many of the above-
mentioned reforms. As a result, fiscal imbalances increased to 4.9 percent of GDP in 1988,
and to 7.8 percent in 1989. Additional measures by the incoming Government in 1990,
beyond the scope of the SAL I actions, were needed to address this problem.



- iii -
Financial sector reforms, geared to avoiding a repetition of the banking crisis of the
early 1980s, focused on improving the sector's regulatory framework and the supervision
capacity of the Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU). The loan supported a revision of the
securities, corporation, and bankruptcy laws, and required presentation to Parliament of draft
legislation in those areas. By 1990, new legislation in all these areas was approved by
Congress, with the exception of the bankruptcy laws which failed to receive adequate
political support.
Trade Policy reforms lowered import tariff rates from a 15 to 60 percent range, to a
new 10 to 45 percent range. Discriminatory trade policies on exports were reduced through
import duty exemptions to imported agricultural inputs, and special tax incentives for imports
of capital goods used as inputs for exports. Exports increased from US$854 million in 1985
to US$1.2 billion in 1988, a trend that has since continued.
Public Investment Programming and Implementation was strengthened and the 1987-
89 investment program was prepared satisfactorily by the Office of Planning and Budgeting
(OPP), in close consultation with the implementing agencies. Nonetheless, this positive
institutional development has since suffered some important setbacks, as the administration
that followed in 1990 reorganized OPP to address other priorities.
Sustainability
SAL I was instrumental in putting to the forefront of the economic policy discussion
the most important structural reforms that needed to be addressed, and achieved sustainable
results in the areas of financial sector and trade policy reform. Although the specific actions
supported by the loan and its conditionalities were not overtly ambitious, attaining sustainable
changes in other areas has proven difficult. This has been particularly the case with actions
related to the size and role of the State. The strong opposition of interest groups--such as
retirees and public sector unions--to the proposed reforms were not anticipated in their full
extent at the time of the project's design; and neither was the response of a fragmented
political system to these pressures.  As a result, Uruguay's growth prospects continue to be
hindered by the excessive weight on the economy of the social security system, and the
overdimensioned public sector.
Lessons Learned
A first lesson is that a SAL should ideally be conceived as part of a sequence of
operations within a time frame which is appropriate for successfully carrying out the
proposed reforms. The design of Uruguay's SAL I took into account the scheduling of the
measures to be adopted, the timely provision of advice or technical assistance to effectively
carry out them, and their congruence with the timetable for tranche conditions. The SAL I
was complemented by a technical assistance loan (TAL I), and followed up by both a
SAL II and TAL II. For example, the presentation of some draft legislation to Parliament
was a condition of the SAL I, approval by Parliament was required in connection with
SAL II, and technical support was provided under the accompanying TALs.
A second lesson is that the most important components of an adjustment operation
should ideally be implemented up-front, before loan approval. The following tranche or



- iv -
tranches should provide for actions and enough time to develop the capacity specific to each
institution and to help ensure that the most important reforms are institutionalized and
become irreversible. Even when these requirements are met, however, there is a possibility
of a reversal. SAL I (and later SAL II) put significant efforts into developing the
institutional capacity of the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) to prepare and update
public investment programs and monitor project developments. The change of administration
in March 1990 entailed a setback in the progress achieved in this area, which is only now
being reversed by the same administration.
A third lesson is that the SAL-type operation should not avoid tackling problems that
are perceived to be extremely difficult, such as social security reform in Uruguay. SAL I
obtained only modest results, but helped create the capacity to analyze the implications of the
existing social security system and identified needed reforms, it also succeeded in drawing
greater public attention to the issue and intensifying the policy dialogue, thus setting the stage
for further reform efforts.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK
I. Introduction
A. Program Identity
Project Name         First Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Number          2836-UR
RVP Unit             LA4CO
Country              Uruguay
Sector         :    Adjustment Lending
Project Name         First Technical Assistance Loan
Loan Number          2843-UR
RVP Unit             LA4CO
Country              Uruguay
Sector         :    Technical Assistance
B. Background
1.    Uruguay prospered in the early twentieth century with an outward-oriented strategy
based on exports of livestock products. During the 1930s, it turned to an import substitution
strategy, forced by the worldwide prevalence of protectionist policies. By the mid-1950s, the
limited import substitution possibilities offered by the domestic market were exhausted, while
the manufacturing sector could not compete in foreign markets. Unable to find development
alternatives that could restore growth, Uruguayans nonetheless zealously guarded their social
achievements, and turned to the State for relief in maintaining standards of living and social
benefits. The State responded by increasing public sector employment, and by becoming
ever more involved in arbitrating and redistributing rents within society. Macroeconomic
stability deteriorated, use of the inflation tax became pervasive, investment declined and out-
migration of the young to neighboring countries increased. Sustained poor economic



performance gradually led to erosion of democratic institutions, culminating in 1973 with a
military take-over that lasted 12 years.
2.    The military government adopted a policy of opening the economy and enhancing the
role of market forces in resource allocation. In its first years, important policy reforms
were implemented in the areas of fiscal, monetary, international trade, and domestic-pricing
policies. Results were positive, except for inflation which remained high at about
40 percent. In 1978, the Government attempted to curtail inflation by adopting a pre-
announced exchange rate schedule that would tie domestic inflation to international inflation
and the rate of devaluation. However, incompatibilities between the expansion of the
domestic money supply--fueled by a large inflow of short-term capital, longer-term external
borrowing, and enlarged fiscal deficits--and the rate of devaluation led to a overvaluation of
the domestic currency, and a severe loss of competitiveness which affected both domestic
production and exports.
3.    The floating of the peso that followed (and ensuing devaluation) led to an acceleration
of inflation, while many highly indebted producers became insolvent and creditor banks
confronted serious solvency problems. As collection problems became acute, the
Government decreed an internal debt moratorium to avoid widespread bankruptcies. Capital
flight became massive while external financing from commercial banks dried up. Uruguay
entered into a major recession with its options severely constrained by the increase of the
external debt stock.
4.    The democratic Government that took over in early 1985 faced a difficult transition to
civilian rule and a severe economic depression. Real GDP had dropped over one-sixth
during 1982-84; investment and consumption declined sharply; inflation accelerated; and the
public sector deficit skyrocketed in 1982-83 to a range of a 16-18 of GDP percent before
declining to 9 percent in 1984. The Government confronted this situation with a three-
pronged approach geared to: (a) stabilize the economy; (b) restructure its external debt; and
(c) restore private sector confidence and a favorable climate for investment and export-led
growth.
5.    In September of 1985 an IMF Stand-by arrangement was approved, supporting
inflation reduction, strengthening of public finances, and improvements in the balance of
payments. Subsequently, a successful negotiation with commercial banks was initiated
leading to a multi-year rescheduling (MYRA) agreement signed in 1986. In June 1985, the
Government approached the Bank requesting support for its medium-term reform program in
the form of a Structural Adjustment Loan.
C. Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
6.    In response to the above-mentioned Government request, a Bank mission visited
Uruguay in November 1985, with appraisal following in October 1986, and negotiations in
April 1987. The Bank assisted the Borrower in the preparation (and implementation) of the
projects, including technical cooperation from the staff and consultants in specific areas, such
as investment programming and social security analysis. The Bank agreed to support
reforms in the key areas discussed in Section D. Board presentation took place in June 1987,
after draft legislation on social security had been presented to Parliament.



- 3 -
II. THE SAL
A. Program Objectives
7.    The objective of SAL I was to assist the Government's undertaking of a program of
reforms deemed essential to restore short- and medium-term growth. The Government's
medium-term program, as expressed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy,
identified four key areas for its reform efforts: (a) public finances management; (b) trade
policies; (c) financial sector policies; and (d) public investment programming and
implementation.
8.    Public finances management was selected because of the importance of restoring
equilibrium to public finances. The emphasis was on reducing the relative size of the public
sector, improving the cost-effectiveness of its operations and bringing public expenditures in
balance with revenues. On the expenditure side, the most important and difficult problem
was financial insolvency of the social security system. Social security benefits exceeded the
country's capacity to pay for them, a combination of: (a) the demographic characteristics of
Uruguay's aging population; (b) the slow growth of the labor force and the out-migration of
young people; (c) generosity in granting access and benefits in the past; and (d) evasion or
underdeclaration by employees and workers in the formal sector, and insufficient coverage of
workers in the informal sector and in rural areas. Another important problem concerned the
financial losses of some inefficient public enterprises (e.g., the airline, PLUNA, the railway
system, AFE, and the water supply company, OSE) and high personnel expenditures in all
public enterprises and the central government because of excessive employment levels.
Streamlining of some of these enterprises was part of the program.
9.    On the revenue side, the SAL I Project identified the need for tax reform to increase
revenues, but also some tax reductions (e.g., import tariffs, export taxes on meat and wool
exports) as well as administrative improvements in the General Tax Directorate and the
Social Security Administration.
10.   Trade policy reform was considered key to enhancing export-led growth. At the
time, the challenge was to diversify exports and markets, because of poor export prospects,
particularly for beef, in traditional markets. Policy reforms concentrated on reducing the
implicit tax on imports stemming from protectionist policies, and introducing export
incentives. Since export competitiveness was a key element for the success of the
Government's economic recovery program, this implied a commitment to maintain a real
effective exchange rate to keep exports competitive.
11.   Financial sector reforms were needed to address a commercial banking sector that
was severely affected by debt-servicing difficulties of overindebted private firms, originating
from the economic crisis of 1982. Both debtor firms and creditor banks were in a weak
financial position, severely constraining the prospects of revitalizing Uruguay's economy.
The economic program aimed to reestablish a sound banking system, restore the necessary
safeguards for credit operations, and strengthen the legal framework that regulated
corporations, securities, and bankruptcy procedures. Within this context, a major element of
the project was its support to the implementation of a rescheduling mechanism for existing
debts and establishing adequate bankruptcy procedures and liquidation for non-payment of



- 4 -
debt. Private debt restructuring was essential to permit the rehabilitation of viable
enterprises.
12.   Additional measures to enhance the development of capital markets included:
(a) revision of legislation on corporations to strengthen minority rights to broaden ownership;
and (b) legislation to promote leasing and other new services by the banking system. The
SAL I conditionality required presentation to Parliament of legislation on corporations,
bankruptcy procedures, investment banking, and leasing. Given the importance of a sound
banking system to mobilizing savings and investments, SAL I also required the adoption of
uniform accounting systems for all banks, and actions towards strengthening banking
supervision and the regulatory procedures of the Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU).
13.   Public investment programming and implementation improvement was considered
important to enhance the role of public sector investment in the economy. Inadequate project
screening processes, and the absence of mechanisms for monitoring project execution and for
addressing implementation problems in a timely manner were identified as problem areas. A
detailed program was prepared with emphasis on institutional and programming links
between the Planning Office and the executing agencies in combination with a Public Sector
Investment Review prepared by the Bank. The project included: (a) definition of the overall
framework and sectoral objectives for the investing agencies; (b) a three-year public
investment program with annual updates; (c) strengthening sectoral planning units in the
executing agencies; (d) introduction of performance contracts between State-owned
enterprises and the Government; (e) introduction of investment selection criteria for public
projects over US$2 million; and (f) monitoring mechanisms for advances in physical
construction and costs. This component was complemented through TAL I.
B. Issues and Risks
14.   The most important concerns during the preparation and appraisal of the SAL I were
that:
(a)   implementation of the social security reform was considered difficult because
of its impact on pensioners, who represented a large proportion of Uruguay's
voters. The preparation team nonetheless persisted in including it as a key
element of the project because of its importance in curtailing current and
future public sector deficits;
(b)   the impact of some of the reforms on private sector activities, both in
reactivating the economy, and in helping solve the internal debt problem and
restoring solvency to the banking system, were considered uncertain;
(c)   the provision of external financing (debt conversion, refinancing or fresh
funds) by foreign commercial banks, was still under discussion in 1986. In
1985, the Bank had provided guarantees for a US$45 million cofinancing
operation with commercial banks for the rehabilitation of a hydroelectric plant.
This was satisfactorily resolved during 1986 with the conclusion of the first
multiyear rescheduling agreement (MYRA);



(d)   the proper extent and approach to the import tariff reduction was a subject of
debate. An earlier agreement under the Second Industrial Credit (1930-UR) in
1982 provided for a 35 percent across-the-board import tariff rate to reduce
effective protection. It was agreed that SAL I would reduce the maximum
rate tariff rate to 45 percent; and
(e)   ensuring export competitiveness was seen to involve a policy of maintaining a
competitive real exchange rate, but the Bank wished to avoid both the
appearance and substance of cross conditionality with the IMF. In 1987, IMF
support to Uruguay had shifted to an Enhanced Surveillance Program. It was
decided that the Bank would agree with the Government on a consistent set of
measures to ensure export competitiveness, in close technical collaboration
with the IMF.
C. Project Implementation
15.   The Bank played an active role in assisting the Borrower in the implementation of the
project, including technical cooperation from Bank staff and consultants in investment
programming, social security analysis, and studies on public enterprises and trade policy. In
addition, Bank projects dealing with public enterprises under the administrative jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Transport and Public Works provided vehicles for the introduction of
complementary performance contracts (OSE, AFE) to reduce costs, increase efficiency, and
improve profitability. Further studies were undertaken in the area of social security, which
provided the basis for additional proposals that would later be part of the SAL II. Project
implementation was carried out without slippage in the agreed timetable. The main
accomplishments are discussed below.
16.   Public Finance Management/Reforms. SAL I placed a heavy emphasis on actions
to improve public finances by closing the gap between revenues and expenditures. Social
security legislation approved in 1987 took steps towards closing the system's financial gap
by increasing tax revenues earmarked for social security by 0.2 percent of GDP, tightening
eligibility requirements, modifying privileged regimes, capping retirement benefits to
retirees, and changing the indexation formula for cost of living adjustments.
17.   Efforts to carry out reforms in the area of public enterprises were successful in
several areas. The railway company (AFE) was restructured in 1988 with significant
technical assistance from the Bank. Passenger services were closed, unprofitable freight
lines were discontinued, the work-force reduced by 20 percent, and the administration
reorganized. The water supply company (OSE) began restructuring with outside technical
support under a Bank financed water supply project approved in March 1988. Legislation
was sent to Parliament to privatize the airline (PLUNA), which did not pass, but it set the
stage for future legislation approved in 1991. Tariffs of public enterprises were raised every
four months in line with past inflation to ensure the financial viability of the enterprises and
their counterpart contribution to their investments. Public enterprise savings reached about
2 percent of GDP.
18.   Despite these efforts, overall public sector employment increased by some 30,000
(more than 10 percent of the public sector work-force) during this same period, as the



- 6 -
Government reinstated many workers who had lost their jobs during the military regime. As
a result, success in reducing the public sector deficit was limited. While initially the public
sector deficit was reduced to 4 percent of GDP in 1987 (from 4.9 per cent in 1986), this
progress was not sustainable, and again the deficit increased to 4.9 percent in 1988 and
7.8 percent in 1989. Thus the incoming Government in 1990 had to take additional
measures, beyond the scope of those agreed under the SAL I actions, to address the
deteriorating trend of public finances.
19.   Trade Policy Reform. The Government pursued a competitive real exchange rate
and virtually eliminated the export taxes which had been reintroduced under the 1983 IMF
Stand-By program (with the exception of a 5 percent tax on raw wool). It reduced the 1983
five-rate import tariff schedule, ranging from 15 to 60 percent (including consular fees, port
charges and the 5 percentage points surcharge introduced in 1985 under the 1985 IMF Stand-
By) to a five-rate schedule ranging from 10 to 45 percent, exempted all agricultural inputs
from import duties; and introduced special tax incentives to neutralize duties for imported
capital goods needed in the production of exports. These policies assisted in the expansion
of exports, which increased from US$854 million in 1985 to US$1,189 million in 1988.
20.   Public Investment Programming. The 1987-89 public investment program was
prepared and later on updated for 1988-90 taking into account actual implementation
capacity of executing agencies, and within the framework of ceilings set by the Office of
Planning and Budget to keep the deficit under control and in line with IMF targets under the
Enhanced Surveillance Arrangement. However, efforts to improve investment planning and
monitoring fell prey to a change in priorities of the administration that came into office in
1990.
D. Disbursements and Audits
21.   Bank financing was fully disbursed in June 1988, ahead of the original Closing Date.
The Bank exercised proper diligence of the import documentation supporting disbursement
requests. The Borrower complied satisfactorily with the Bank's standard auditing
requirements. By 1993, however, this same administration began to give renewed emphasis
to these areas with support for the Bank-financed TAL II (Ln. 3982-UR).
E. Project Results
22.   Overall, the Government's medium-term program supported by SAL I and TAL I
successfully reversed the economic decline in GDP. This was helped by favorable external
market conditions in Argentina (1986) and Brazil (1987), low international interest rates, and
improved terms of trade. Unemployment declined, inflation dropped from 83 percent in
1985 to 57 percent in 1987; and the public sector deficit was reduced to 4 percent of GDP
(including Central Bank losses equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP) from 9.2 percent in 1984
and 6.3 percent in 1985. However, the economy again slowed down in 1988 as a result,
largely, of factors not related to the implementation of the project: strikes in the
manufacturing and fishing industries; a severe and lasting drought; and the negative impact
on tourism receipts of economic fluctuations in Argentina and Brazil.



- 7 -
23.   SAL I did not increase poverty. Studies by the UN's Economic Commission for
Latin America (ECLA) confirmed continued reduction in the number of urban households
under the income poverty line. Similar results were reported in a Bank Poverty Assessment
for Uruguay. I Income concentration decreased as a result of the increase in real wages and
salaries, retirement and pension benefits, and the significant reduction of unemployment.
24.   SAL I was instrumental in putting to the forefront of the economic policy discussion
the most important structural reforms that needed to be addressed. These included the long-
term problem of the social security system and its consequences for current and future fiscal
deficits and the economy. By also singling out some inefficient public enterprises, SAL I
provided an initial impulse to the process of reforming, liquidating or privatizing public
enterprises, which would later be a component of SAL II. Lastly, SAL I supported modest
steps to solve the domestic debt crisis and restore the soundness of the banking system,
which also later became important components of SAL II.
F. Bank and Borrower Performance
25.   The Bank was somewhat slow in processing SAL I because it had reservations about
getting involved in social security issues, both because of their political sensitivity in
Uruguay and because this was a rather new area for the Bank at the time. Apart from that,
processing proceeded smoothly. SAL I absorbed a total of 46.2 staff weeks, of which 30.8
were allocated to loan development, appraisal and negotiation. The number of supervision
missions was adequate with good coverage. Advantage was also taken of other missions
whose main purpose was economic updating to follow up developments of SAL I.
Supervision was carried out by the Country Operations Division. The Government's
commitment to the execution of the project did not waiver throughout the design and
implementation period.
III. THE TAL
A. Introduction
26.   A Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) for US$1.0 million accompanied SAL I and
financed technical assistance and studies to support the Government's efforts to deepen and
expand public sector reforms. TAL I principal objectives were to improve the performance
of key Government agencies and to support critical administrative policy reforms.
27.   The project included studies and technical assistance to help define policy options,
prepare medium-term strategies, strengthen and reorganize key public sector management
functions, and support critical policy reforms in the areas of social security, fiscal reform,
public investment programming, capital market development, administrative reforms, and a
review of the existing import tariff regime.
1/    See Bank Report No. 9663: Uruguay Poverty Assessment: Public Social Expenditures and their Impact on
the Income Distribution, May 1993.



- 8 -
B. Description and Results of the Studies
Public Finances Management
28.   Social Security Finances and Administration (Component A) - The TAL tackled
the long-term problem of bringing the costly social security system more in line with
Uruguay's financial means. Despite earlier success in containing its expenses, social security
expenditures rose to over 11 percent of the GDP in 1986, exceeding revenues by over
3 percent. To arrest this trend, one strand of TAL activity consisted of studies on policy
options for dealing with the system's long term problem and its economic consequences.
The consultants employed covered modification of family allowances, unemployment
insurance, and retirement and pension benefits. The Government, taking this analysis into
account, modified the old-age, survivors and disability program (IVS) in a manner which
then appeared capable of making it financially self-sufficient by the year 2000. It won
legislative approval in 1987 of new earmarked taxes for these purposes, which was estimated
to be capable of reducing IVS' deficit by 0.2 percent of GDP in the short run. The
methodology of these changes was agreed upon with the Bank. (Subsequently, the same
consultants' recommendations also proved useful for the Government in 1991, which
obtained new congressional approval of further modifications in the system.)
29.   In addition, TAL I addressed the Social Security Bank's (BPS) need for administrative
improvements and better control mechanisms, in the face of the high evasion of social
security contributions and evidence of non- and under-payment. The Loan helped finance
BPS' initial purchase of computer equipment for these purposes (which was supplemented
under TAL II.)
30.   Public Investment Programming (Component C) - Insufficient investment had long
contributed to Uruguay's relatively stagnant growth rate, and investment fell to record lows
during the economic crisis of 1982-85. Therefore, as noted in para. 13, the Government's
adjustment program set a target of designing a public investment program which would
address long deferred social needs as well as provide essential infrastructure and services for
private enterprises. The TAL included provisions for reinvigorating the Office of Planning
and Budgeting (OPP), which had deteriorated under the military regime. It also aimed at
reinforcing investment planning units in the state enterprises responsible for transportation,
public works and water services, and establishment of new ones as well. The intention was
to prepare a 1990-95 investment plan for the administration scheduled to take office in early
1990. In addition, OPP experimented with the establishment of performance contracts for
better oversight of the parastatals and to stimulate their internal efficiency improvements.
These were subsequently linked with conditions of independent Bank loans with the transport
and water entities.
31.   The initial work for the Programa de Inversi6n Social (PRIS) was begun under TAL
I. Under this program, the Government decided to rationalize its social spending and target
its resources to reach the poorest segments of society. Initial work involved developing a
computer program which could relate levels of poverty as defined by different variables to
social sector investments and services in the areas of education, health and nutrition. Two
consultants carried out a survey of the social infrastructure in the areas of health, education
and nutrition.



- 9 -
32.   Administrative Reform Program  (Component F) - The intent of the study was
twofold, analyze general levels and qualifications of civil service employment aiming at
developing a leaner and competent civil service and examine and revise the procurement
procedures of public organizations. Recommendations were given to improve the
administration of DINAMIGE. Many of the recommendations affecting inventory control,
accounting procedures, procurement of goods, and human resource management were later
implemented. A Comite Nacional de Calidad was created under TAL I to promote national
standards of quality control; the Law of Consumer Protection was prepared under this project
and is now being considered by the Congress.
Financial Sector
33.   Capital Markets (Component D) - The purpose was to improve the capital market
framework and reduce financing cost to corporations by introducing new laws in the fields of
corporate, securities, and bankruptcy procedures. Several Executive Power Decrees were
issued by the Government as a result of this study. The decrees affected the accounting
regulations of corporations in Uruguay aiming at raising these standards to international
levels and providing greater transparency to their financial records.
34.   Reprivatization of Commercial Banks (Component G) - The objective of this
component was to help the Government overcome regulatory, supervisory and other
deficiencies in the financial sector. Under it, the Government received advice on how to
approach the reprivatization of the several commercial banks which had become insolvent in
the mid-1980s, and in which the Government subsequently intervened. This counsel led to
the development of a strategy for restructuring and later selling these banks to new private
owners, which became the central motive of both the SAL II and TAL II projects.
T'rade Policy Reform
35.   Import Tariff System (Component E) - The intent of the study was to update and
review the analytical basis to guide further tariff reductions, and assure that tariff
rationalization is consistent with the Government's economic growth and development
targets. The material in the study was used by the MEF in its efforts to lower trade barriers
and reduce market distortions to its lower levels. Other recommendations resulted in
changes, by law, of taxes on bank activities and other taxes, in agreement with
MERCOSUR's banking measures.
C. Implementation and Results
36.   Implementation went well and the studies were acceptable and generally helpful to the
Government. The following items were achieved under TAL I, under Component A, the
acquisition of essential computer equipment for BPS to improve collections; under
Component C, the initial work for the Programa de Inversi6n Social (PRIS) was begun;
under Component D, the creation of greater transparency in the regulations governing
disclosure of information by corporations; under Component E, further reductions in import
tariffs and reductions in export price controls; under Component F, the basis for the Law of
Port Reform was prepared (one of the current administration's principal achievements), as
well as some gradual changes in the filling of important civil service positions and reforms at



- 10 -
DINAMIGE; and under Component G, the inception of the work necessary to restructure and
privatize the three insolvent commercial banks in Government receivership. There was less
achieved in the proposed studies on fiscal reform under Component B. A summary of the
studies are presented in Annex 1. Additional studies related to Component C and D did not
use Loan funds but were financed by the Government, IDB and IFC. A summary of the
technical assistance is presented in Annex 2.
37.   The Loan's closing date was extended four times, for a total of two years, from the
original date of September 30, 1989 to September 30, 1991, in order to allow more time for
the completion of studies.
D. Disbursements and Credits
38.   Because of the recourse to financing from other sources, Loan funds were not fully
used and US$125,810 was cancelled. The Borrower complied satisfactorily with the Bank's
standard auditing requirements.
E. Bank and Borrower Performance
39.   Bank supervision was undertaken largely in conjunction with SAL I supervision. As
with that operation, the Government's commitment to the execution of the project did not
waiver throughout the design and implementation period.
IV. Findings and Lessons Learned
40.   A first lesson is that a SAL should ideally be conceived as part of a sequence of
operations within a time frame which is appropriate for successfully carrying out the
proposed reforms. The design of Uruguay's SAL I took into account the scheduling of the
measures to be adopted, the timely provision of advice or technical assistance to effectively
carry out them, and their congruence with the timetable for tranche conditions. The SAL I
was complemented by a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL I), and followed up by both a
SAL II and TAL II. For example, the presentation of some draft legislation to Parliament
was a condition of the SAL I, approval by Parliament was required in connection with
SAL II, and technical support was provided under the accompanying TALs.
41.   A second lesson is that the most important components of an adjustment operation
should ideally be implemented up-front, before loan approval. Such should have been the
case, for example, of implementing upfront actions directed to reduce the social security
deficit. The following tranche or tranches should provide for actions and enough time to
develop the capacity specific to each institution and to help ensure that the most important
reforms are institutionalized and become irreversible. Even when these requirements are
met, however, there is a possibility of a reversal. SAL I (and later SAL II) put significant
efforts into developing the institutional capacity of the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP)
to prepare and update public investment programs and monitor project developments. The
change of administration in March 1990 entailed a setbacks in the progress achieved in this



- 11 -
area. These, however, can only be remedied within an overall improvement in public
administration that would enhance the stability of the bureaucracy.
42.   A third lesson is that the SAL-type operation should not avoid tackling problems that
are perceived to be extremely difficult, such as social security reform in Uruguay. SAL I
obtained only modest results, but helped create the capacity to analyze the implications of the
existing social security system and identified needed reforms, it also succeeded in drawing
greater public attention to the issue and intensifying the policy dialogue, thus setting the stage
for further reform efforts.



- 12 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2836-UR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.   Background
The new civilian government that took office in March 1985, inherited a situation of high
inflation, sluggish activity and a weak balance of payments. Inflation was running at an annual
rate of around 100 percent in the first half of 1985, economic growth was stagnant since 1981 and
spite of the relative strengthening of the current account balance, a deficit remained in the balance
of payments.
To address these problems the Government embarked on a comprehensive sequence of
adjustment programs with the IMF coupled with a structural adjustment loan with the World Bank,
(SAI I).
The main focus of the adjustment effort was a substantial reduction in the combined public
sector deficit, obtained through a restrained growth of the monetary aggregates, prudent wage
policies and the pursuit of market determined exchange and interest rates.
The World Bank participation was aimed at the reinforcement of that adjustment effort and
the improvement of the country general conditions in terms of foreign competitiveness and foreign
financing.
11. Obiectives
Specifically, the loan objectives were:
a)    Strengthening public sector finances.
b)    Downgrading the set of obstacles that interfere with the export led growth strategy,
mainly through the implementation of import tariff rebates and the pursuit of an
active real exchange policy rate which assured foreign competitiveness and export
incentives.
c)    Strengthening public investment capabilities and project implementation in the
Budget and Planning office (OPP), and,
d)    Improvement of the banking sector structure.



- 13 -
III.   Project Implementation
In the fiscal area (objective a), the authorities were successful in reducing the overall public
sector deficit as targeted from around 6 1/2 percent of GOP in 1985 to 4 percent in 1987. Since
then, there had been a deterioration in public finances which continued through 1989.
As part of the liberalization program announced in late 1978, import tariffs and export taxes
were gradually reduced, although budgetary considerations led to a temporary slow down of such
trend. Tariffs were reduced in 1986, 1987 and 1989. At the same time, enhancement of export
incentives were implemented during the scope of the loan. Standard trade weighted measures of
competitiveness suggest that during 1987 and 1988 the pace of exchange rate devaluation
accelerated, which placed the currency at its most competitive level over the past several years.
Since middle of 1988 the currency depreciation reached a plateau, beginning a mild r eversal of that
trend.
During 1987-89 the role of the Budget and Planning Office (OPP) preparing the investment
program, and controlling the performance of the public enterprises (PE) was crucial. Satisfactory
results were obtained in terms of PE surplus, except in AFE and Pluna. The public sector
investment priorities were determined using project evaluations techniques. The government began
to be embarked in regional public sector investment strategies complementary to dynamic export
activities (ie: dairy, rice and forestry). These actions meant one of the first attempts of private
design and execution of public investment works. In fact, electricity transmission and distribution
lines were located and operated according to private needs following project evaluation criteria at
microlevel.
As a decision tool, a similar pattern was followed in the rural roads project designing,
construction and maintenance covered in the framework of "regional projects".
In this line of action, the Budget and Planning Office also pioneered the closing down of
the railway passenger services (1988) and the streamlining of the public sector investment including
Public Enterprises using social evaluation project criteria.
From 1990 on, the OPP role on programming was curtailed to address other priorities. In
our view this was a setback; at the present time this situation is being reversed.



- 14 -
IV   Lessons
SAL I operation in general terms was successful in achieving all its goals. Crucial on its
performance was both the specificness and the scheduling of the measures to be carried out in line
with the overall government growth and stabilization strategies.
Another lesson is that this type of adjustment loan should have a substantial stock of actions
prior to approval, in order to avoid the risk of reversal after disbursements. The second tranch's
trigger has to be the consolidation of the reforms.
It is important to take into account that by legal reasons the loan conditionalities cover only
by definition the executive actions. As a matter of fact, reforms which need law approval by
Congress in theory can not be included. Otherwise, a violation of the constitutional separation of
powers between the Executive and the Parliament takes place.
Finally, the SAL I had a positive effect in helping the social security reforms gained
momentum, and became a central issue through the preparation of the respective reform law, which
in turn was rejected later by the Parliament.



- 15 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 3.1: URUGUAY - RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of         Principal         Status
Loan      Purpose                    Approval       (US$ Million)   (As of March
1994)
1930-UR    2nd Industrial Credit         1980             30.0          Disbursed
3081-UR    Structural Adjustment         1989             140.0         Disbursed
II (SAL II)
3082-UR    Technical Assistance          1989              6.5          Disbursing
(TAL II)
3323-UR    Support of External           1991              65.0         Disbursed
Debt and Debt Service
Reduction
3517-UR    Public Enterprise             1992              11.0         Disbursing
Reform



- 16 -
TABLE 3.2: URUGUAY: SAL I PROGRAM TIMETABLE
Dated
Items              Dated Planned       Revised       Date Actual
Identification Mission   November 1985            ---     November 1985
Appraisal                October 1986             ---     October 1986
Loan Negotiation         April 1987               ---     April 1987
Board Presentation       June 8, 1987                     June 8, 1987
Loan Agreement           ---                      ---     September 2. 1987
First Tranche            At Effectiveness         ---     October 30, 1987
Disbursement
Second Tranche           10 months after          ---    June 7, 1988
Disbursement             Effectiveness
Loan Closing             December 31, 1988        ---     December 31, 1988
TABLE 3.3: URUGUAY - CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year/                FY88                   FY88                   Total
Semester                      I                      II
Appraisal Estimate           40                      40                  80.0
Actual                       40                      40                  80.0
Actual as % of Loan          50                      100                100.0
TABLE 3.4: URUGUAY: PROGRAM ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ Millions)
Bank          Government       Other Sources         Total
Loani 2836-UR           80                --               --                80



- 17 -
TABLE 3.5: URUGUAY: MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
(In Percentages of GDP)
Item                              1985       1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992
GDP Growth Rate                                              1.0       12.3       9.4        0.0        1.2       0.9       2.Q        7.4
Gross Fixed Investment                                       8.4        8.7       10.3      10.8       10.6       9.9       12.0       13.1
General Government Current Revenues                         20.6       20.7       20.5      22.0       22.5      25.6       28.4      28.7
Central Administration Deficit (-)                           2.8       -1.4       -1.3      -1.9       -3.2       0.0       0.4        0.'
Social Security Expenditures (IVS) .'                        8.3        8.6       8.7        9.0        9.2      10.1       11.3       12.2
Social Security Bank (BPS) Deficit (-)                       -2.8      -2.4       -2.5      -2.9       -2.8      -0.2'    -1. 0'      -1I5
(Of which IVS deficit)                                      (-1.7)     (-1.4)    (-1.8)    (-1. 9)    (-1.7)    (-1.0)    (-1.2)      (-1.8)
Nonfinancial Public Sector Deficit (-)                      -3.0       -1.2       -1.4      -1.9       -3.5      -0.5       1.3        1.9
Quasi-fiscal Deficit (Central Bank) (-)                     -3.3       -3.7       -2.6      -3.0       -3.4      -3.6       -2.3      -1.o
Consolidated Public Sector Deficit (-)                      -6.3       -4.9       -4.0      -4.9      -7.8'      -4.0'    -1. 5-      -0. 1-'
Capital Expenditures Public Sector                           3.1        3.8       3.3        4.0        3.9       4.1       4.3        4.)0
Nonfinancial Public Sector Savings (+)                       0.1        2.6       1.0        2.2        0.4       4.6       5.6        5.9
Current Account BOP Deficit (-)                             -1.8        1.2       -1.9       0.4        1.7       2.6       1.3        -2.0
Exports (FOB, Million UJS$)                                  854       1,088     1.182      1,405      1,599     1,693     1,605      1,703
Imports (CIF Million US$)                                    708       870       1,142      1,177      1,203     1,343     1,637      2,058
Trade Balance (Million US$)                                  146       218         40        228       396        350       -32        -356
Prices (consumer index, end of period)                      83.0       70.7       57.3      69.0       89.2      129.0     81.5       58.9
1/       Excludes social security expenditures of the banking employees, professionals and notaries funds, which totalled 0.7 percent of GDP in 1985 and
1.3 percent of GDP in 1992, i.e., total IVS expenditures were 9.0 percent of GDP n 1985 and 13.5 percent of GDP in 1992.
2/       Includes intervened banks and mortgage bank losses.
3/        Beginning in 1990, the Government allocated several percentage points of the VAT to cover unfunded expenditures of BPS.



- 18 -
TABLE 3.6: URUGUAY - SAL I STATUS OF COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
Section of Loan Agreement
or Schedule                                   Description                                    Status of Compliance
Loan Agreement                     Bills have been submitted to Parliament in the fields of  Complied with for loan effectiveness (first
investment banking and leasing.                        tranche disbursement).
Schedule I Paragraph 3(a)          Satisfactory progress by the Borrower in the carrying out    Complied with.
of the Program, including maintaining and deepening the
results of actions already taken (paragraphs 2 and 7 of the
Program) as well as in taking new actions other than
those referred to in 3(b).
Schedule I Paragraph 3(b)          The actions described in Schedule 4 to the Loan         Complied with.
Agreement have been taken.
Schedule 4(a)                      Satisfactory investment program for 1988-89.            Complied with.
Schedule 4(b)                      Completion of draft securities, corporate, and bankruptcy    Complied with. Parliament approved a
laws and presentation to Parliament.                    corporations and unincorporated enterprises law,
including a section protecting minority
shareholders rights, and a new civil procedures
code under SAL 11.
Schedule 4(c)                      Reducing maximum import-tariff rate to 40%              Complied with.
(excluding 5 % of consular fees and port charges) of the  Further advances took place under SAL II and
CIF price, coupled with a parallel reduction of         now maximum rate stands at 20% (including
protectionist elements in references prices.           consular fees and port charges).
Reference prices have also been reduced.
Schedule 4(d)                      Evidence of progress satisfactory to the Bank on the    Complied with. Legislation presented to and
social security reform program and its schedule to change    approved by Parliament, which initiated long-
the long-term structural parameters of the system as   term reforms of social security.
presented in the Statement of Development Policy
Schedule 5(e)                      Evidence of progress in reducing the social security    Complied with by 1988-89. However, a
system towands a target of 2% of GDP or less by        constitutional referendum in November 1989
December 1990.                                          increased Social Security expenditures by about
2-3% of GDP. Government took revenue action
in Mareh 1990 to avoid an increasing deficit.



- 19 -
TABLE 3.7: URUGUAY - TAL I STATUS OF COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
Section of Loan                                 Description                               Status of Compliance
Agreement or
Schedule
Component A         Studies covered modification of family allowances, unemployment      Complied with.
insurance, and retirement and pension benefits. The Government used
Social Security     the studies' recommendations to modify the old-age, survivors and
Finances and       disability program (IVS). The Government won legislative approval
Administration       for new taxes for these purposes; the same recommendations were
useful again in 1991 to win legislative approval for further
modifications in the system.
TAL I addressed the Social Security Bank's (BPS) need for
administrative improvements and better control mechanisms. Under
TAL 1, BPS acquired computer equipment which allowed the agency to
begin its efforts to maintain individual accounts, reduce employer and
employee evasion, and to more accurately forecast the financial
requirements of the Social Security Administration.
Component B         TAL I funds were not used for this Component. However, under        Done under SAL 11
Component E of the Project some of the work related to taxation was  and TAL 11.
Fiscal          executed.
Reform
Component C         The initial work for the Program de Inversi6n Social (PRIS) was begun    Complied with.
under TAL 1. It involved developing a computer program which could
Public Investment     relate levels of poverty as defined by different variables to social sector
Programming         investments and services in the areas of education, health and nutrition.
The Government funded its National Quality Committee under this
Component.
Component D         Several Executive Decrees were issued by the Government as a result  Complied with.
of the studies financed under this Component. It covered the area of
Capital          accounting regulations for corporations in Uruguay, aiming at raising
Markets          the standards to international levels and providing greater transparency
to their financial records.
Component E         Updating of Bank's previous studies under the Second Industrial Credit    Complied with.
Project (Loan 1930-UR) was done. The studies were used by MEF in
Inport Tariff      its efforts to lower trade barriers and reduce market distortions. Other
Regime           studies resulted in changes, by law, in taxes.
Component F         (i) A study covering Civil Service Employment was done. The         Complied with.
Government issued a decree establishing greater emphasis on
Administrative      performance and also abolished some political appointment positions.
Reform Program       (ii) Studies were done to improve the administration of DINAMIGE. It
resulted in recommendations, many of which were implemented,
affecting inventory control, accounting procedures, procurement of
goods, and human resource management. (ii) Studies were also done
to improve services at the Port of Montevideo and ANR The
recommendations were incorporated into the Law of Port Reform,
passed later by congress. (iv) The Comite Nacional de Calidad was
created under this Component. Due to work initiated under TAL 1, a
law has been prepared, the Law of Consumer Protection, for future
consideration by the Congress.
Component G         This Component was a late addition to the Loan (requested by the    Further advances
Government). This Component allowed the Government to begin the     took place under SAL
Reprivatization     lengthy process of preparing the commercial banks under their        II and TAL 11.
of Commercial       receivership for eventual privatization.
Banks



- 20 -
TABLE 3.8: URUGUAY -
SAL I/TAL I
A. STAFF INPUTS (STAFF WEEKS)
Stage of Program Cycle      Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                  24.0
Appraisal - Board Approval          6.8
Board Approval - Effectiveness     10.9
Supervision                         9.8
TOTAL                            51.5
B. KEY MISSIONS
Activity               Fiscal     Number of    Specialization               Number of
Year       Persons                                    Weeks
Identification                     1986         2         LO'', EC21,                        1.0
Preappraisal                       1986         6         LO, EC, 3S4', C5',                23.0
Appraisal                          1987         4         LO, EC, S, C                       6.0
Negotiation                        1987         2         LO, EC                             0.8
Board Approval -                   1987         5         LO, EC, S, 2C                     10.9
Effectiveness
Supervision                        1987          1        EC                                 3.2
Supervision                        1988          1        EC                                 1.3
Supervision                        1990          1        S                                   .6
Supervision                        1991         2         S                                  3.0
Supervision                        1992         3         S, 2A'                            1.7
TOTAL                      1986-1992         27                                          51.5
Type of Staff:
1/     LO      =      Loan Officer
2/     EC      =       Economist
3/     CO      =       Country Officer
4/     S       =       Specialist
5/     C       =       Consultant
6/     A       =       Assistant



- 21 -
TABLE 3.9: TAL I - PROJECT TUIETABLE
Item                          Date Planned      Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                   05/86
Preparation                                                                               05/86-10/86
Appraisal Mission                                                                            10/86
Loan Negotiations                                    04/20/87                             05/11-15/87
Board Approval                                       06/23/87                               06/16/87
Loan Signature                                                                              09/02/87
Loan Effectiveness                                     09/87                                10/20/87
Loan Closing                                         09/30/89          03/31/90             09/30/91
09/28/90
03/29/91
TABLE 3.10: TAL I - TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(in US$000s)
Local     Foreign     Total (1)
Consultant Services
Social Security Studies                  35         100          135
Fiscal Reform Program                    40         120          160
Public Investment Programming            40         120          160
Capital Market Legislation               20          60           80
Import Tariff Reform                     15          35           50
Administrative Reform                    50         150          200
Sub-Total                               200         585          785
Computing Equipment                       --        225          785
Training Fellowships                     30         100          130
Contingencies                            25          90          115
TOTAL                     255        1000         1255
Note:  Table from President's Report. No breakdown of costs were included in the
Loan Agreement beyond the categories of consultant services, goods, and training.
TABLE 3.11: TAL I - FINANCING PLAN
(in US$000s)
Local    Foreign      Total
Bank                     --       1000      1000
Government             255           --      255
TOTAL                  255        1000      1255
Note:   The project was exempt from taxes and duties.



- 22 -
TABLE 3.12: TAL I - LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Period Dates                Disbursements            Cum. Disbursements
10/01/87 - 12/31/87                    00.00                         00.00
01/01/88 - 03/31/88                    00.00                          00 00
04/01/88 - 06/30/88              $200,000.00                    $200,000.00
07/01/88 - 09/30/88                    00.00                          00.00
10/01/88 - 12/31/88                    00.00                         00.00
01/01/89 - 03/31/89                    00.00                          00.00
04/01/89 - 06/30/89                    00.00                          00.00
07/01/89 - 09/30/89                    00.00                          00.00
10/01/89 - 12/31/89              $176.865.57                    $376,865.57
01/01/90 - 03/31/90                    00.00                          00.00
04/01/90 - 06/30/90                    00.00                          00.00
07/01/90 - 09/30/90                    00.00                          00.00
10/01/90 - 12/31/90                   00.00                          00.00
01/01/91 -03/31/91                     00.00                          00.00
04/01/91 - 06/30/91                    00.00                          00.00
07/01/91 -09/30/91               $300,276.05                    $677,141.62
10/01/91 - 12/31/91              $111,933.95                   $789,075.57
01/01/92 - 03/31/92               $85,114.30                    $874,189.87
Note: The balance of the loan US$125,810.13 was cancelled.
TABLE 3.13: TAL I
TIMING OF ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS
1988        1989
Annual                         600          400
Cumulative                     600         1000
Note: Original estimates from
Loan Agreement.



- 23 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2836-UR)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Loan Position as of March 31, 1994
(US$ Million)
Loan 2836-UR   Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid    Outstanding
80.0        80.0          ---       23.34        56.66
Terms: Interest Rate                 Standard Variable Rate
Maturity                      15 years
Grace                         3 years
Time overrun:                        None
Borrower:                            Republic of Uruguay
Executing Agency:                    Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP)
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time to Prepare the Operation:   18 Months
(b) Project Proposed By:            Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Central Bank, and
the Planning and Budget Office, with Bank assistance
(c) First Presentation to the Bank:  November 1985
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:   October 1986
(e) Completion of Negotiations:     April 1987
(f) Board Approval:                 June 16, 1987
(g) Loan Agreement Signed On:       September 2, 1987
(h) Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1987
(i) Actual Date of Effectiveness:   October 20, 1987
(j) Last Disbursement:              June 6, 1988
(k) Initial Closing Date:           December 31, 1988
(1) Actual Closing Date:            December 31, 1988



- 24 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 2843-UR)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Loan Position as of March 31, 1994
(US$ Million)
Loan 2843-UR    Original       Disbursed       Cancelled        Repaid        Outstanding
1.0          .87             .13             .26             .61
Terms:       Interest Rate:            Standard Variable Rate
Maturity                  15 years
Grace:                    3 years
Time overrun:                          2 years
Borrower:                              Republic of Uruguay
Executing Agency:                      Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP)
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time to Prepare the Operation:     5 months
(b) Project Proposed by:               MEF, BCU, OPP, with Bank assistance
(c) First Presentation to the Bank:    May 1986
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:    October 1986
(e) Completion of Negotiations:        April 1987
(f) Board Approval:                   June 16, 1987
(g) Loan Agreement Signed on:          September 2, 1987
(h) Planned Date of Effectiveness:     September 1987
(i) Actual Date of Effectiveness:      October 20, 1987
(j) Last Disbursement:                 March 31, 1992
(k) Initial Closing Date:              September 30, 1989
(I) Actual Closing Date:               September 30, 1991



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
The TAL I Studies: Main Conclusions and Results
1.          SOCIAL SECURITY FINANCES AND ADMINISTRATION
In accordance to Annex 2, Part A of the contract, one Consultant was hired to
evaluate the social security finances and administration system; he carried out his work at the
Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Consultant was assigned the following tasks:
(a) evaluate the current social security system, covering all areas under the Social Security
Bank (BPS), the retirement and pension system; (b) develop a proposal to reform the
retirement and pension system. A proposal was developed with recommendations for the
improvement of DISSE, and the modification of the Family Allowances system, the
unemployment insurance, and the retirement and pension system.
A short-term Consultant was hired to help with the purchase of equipment to support
the social security reform program. The Consultant, an expert in the collection system of the
General Treasury of Spain's Social Security and its computer system, advised on the
equipment to be purchased under TAL I and TAL II agreements. A software system was
implemented, adequate to the BPS collection problems.
2.          PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAMMING
Two Consultants were hired to develop a study on social infrastructure investment.
Their tasks were to (a) carry out a survey on the social infrastructure in health, education
and nutrition; (b) determine quality of existing services and its distribution; (c) design and
prepare survey questionnaires; (d) code the information; (f) participate in the training of
surveyors; (g) coordinate contracts with official services; and (h) coordinate the national
counterpart group for the Social Investment Program.  Most of the assigned tasks were
accomplished.
Six Consultants were hired to work with the Administrative Reform Program and
Public Investment Programming's Quality Committee. They were assigned the following
tasks: (a) propose programs aiming to improve the quality of goods and services delivered by
the State, and provide support to all activities in this respect; (b) supervise the development
of the National Quality Program, its follow-up, evolution and dissemination; (c) coordinate
the operation of the Temporary Subcommittee that may be created under the National
Committee; (d) participate in the projects associated with the transformation of Public
Administration (quality control in purchases made by the State); (e) coordination of activities
associated with quality standards prevailing in the country and their adjustment to the needs
of regional integration and foreign trade; (f) programming of activities associated with the
granting of a national prize on quality of goods and services; (g) participate in the design and
implementation of stands for national fairs associated with quality and development; (h)
advise on the practical implementation of a Consumer Defense Law; (i) adjust to prevailing
needs the design of a given training and education system on the quality of entrepreneurial



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
management; (j) programming and organization of temporary and permanent training courses
on quality; (k) establishment and follow-up of training courses, making necessary
adjustments; (1) establishment of adequate conditions to help the Public Sector have balanced
financial functions; (m) advise the National Committee on Quality on matters of
communications and improving its image; (n) coordinate activities associated with the
implementation of quality control in basic commodities and medicines; (o) and programming
the conmmercial obligations of using a "LATU Quality" seal on foreign and domestic
consumer goods. The tasks were successfully carried out and recommendations were
submitted.
3.           CAPITAL MARKET
Two Consultants were hired; one to work at the Central Bank of Uruguay and the
other at the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Consultant at the Central Bank was
required to submit studies on the following areas: (a) causes, characteristics and magnitude of
the financial crisis; (b) initial measures of the monetary authorities, its main aspects;
(c) capital market evolution, operational characteristics after the crisis; (d) refinancing law
pattern, main measures, resolutions by agreement of the parties, pending matters;
(e) portfolios held by the Central Bank, mechanisms employed for their collection and
regularization, impact on the private financial system; (f) the macroeconomic framework,
characteristics, cash reserve level and structure, its effects on the banking system rate of
return; (g) regulatory framework on financial operations and its effects on level of
intermediation; (h) borrowing programs and normalization of financial institutions;
(i) borrowing programs and normalization of financial institutions, procedures provided for
prevailing legislation and possible reforms; (j) experiences in other countries and procedures
used; (k) detailed report on each bank whose shares have been transferred to the official
banking institution or are in the process of being merged with private entities owned by the
Banco de la Repuiblica del Uruguay (BROU); (1) proposal for normalization of the entities
under study: sale, merger, capitalization, public offering of shares, rationalization, use of the
debt to debt, debt equity mechanisms, sale of assets to BROU in the framework of the
Refinancing Law, and transfer of branches and personnel to other private or public entities.
Although the consultancy contract was reached within the framework of Part D "Capital
Market of the Loan Agreement," the study submitted by the Consultant, according to OPP's
request, basically converts an analysis of recapitalization and restructuring of Commercial
Banks, a subject included in the amendment of the Loan Agreement incorporating Part G
"Reprivatization of Commercial Banks." The study submitted has provided the basic
guidelines for the Banking Restructuring Plan (PRB) with the purpose to capitalize,
restructure and later privatize La Caja Obrera, Banco Comercial and Banco Pan de Azucar.
This plan is being implemented by the Government through the National Development
Corporation (Corporaci6n Nacional para el Desarrollo), with funds originating from other
Agreements reached between BROU and the World Bank, the second Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL II, 3081-UR) and the Second Technical Assistance Loan (TAL II, 3082-UR).
The Consultant at the Ministry of Economy and Finance was given the following
tasks: (a) make an evaluation of the present situation in the capital market and its legal



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
instruments, in particular the regulatory framework associated to commercial companies as
adynamic element; and (b) make the corresponding suggestions in order to encourage a
smoother development of the capital market. During the course of his consultancy and
simultaneously with the preparation of his report, the Consultant participated in drafting
several legal rules, functioning regulations of commercial societies and the stock market.
The report covered the background and evaluation of the capital market in Uruguay in the
last decade, the securities market and its investors (both private and institutional), and the
incidence of the taxation system on the stock market and the levels of investment.
4.          IMPORT TARIFF SYSTEM
Five Consultants were hired to work at the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Two
Consultants were given the following tasks: (a) develop a report on the Tax Reform in
Uruguay covering tax reform and its regional integration, taxes on capital (Company Income
Tax, Equity Tax, and Tax on Bank Assets), and Refund of indirect taxes on exports. The
recommendations on Tax Reform in the framework of regional integration served as
guidelines to define the position of Uruguay in the MERCOSUR negotiations regarding tariff
rates harmonization. Some of the other recommendations were incorporated in the Proposed
National Budget Law (establishing the national tax regulation, one of the main aspects of the
tax reform.)
The other three Consultants were assigned to study in what measure benchmark prices
(PR) and minimum export prices (PME) constitute a concealed protection against transparent
market sources, and the effect of changes to the system produced in November 1990. They
were asked to develop: (a) methodology preparation; (b) development of a data base for
1990; (c) estimate the effects produced by the PME and PR system on the price relationship
between products of presumably different quality and on tariffs applicable to the importation
of affected products; (c) analysis of changes introduced in the PME and PR system in
November 1990, put into effect on May 1991, for which purpose imports made in 1990 will
be considered; and (d) starting with the information secured from the data base, a deep
analysis to be made of the effect of those instruments on industries and also in terms of the
origin of imports. The recommendations in the study were the basis for the Government
policy to eliminate benchmark prices and reduce minimum export prices; they were put into
effect through resolutions of the Executive Power and through the Ministry of Economy and
Finance.
5.          ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM PROGRAM
Eight Consultants were hired. They worked at the Planning and Budget Office, the
National Civil Service Office, the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, and the National
Port Authority. One Consultant was given the following terms of reference: enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of public enterprises through adequate management control. In
the area of Public Enterprises (a) study, analyze, and promote a Strategic Planning system
and its relationship with the System of Control through Results; (b) effective implementation
of a management control system, either as a system of indicators or as a Program-



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
Agreement; have State Sanitary Works Administration (OSE) and State Railway
Administration (AFE) finish the existing drafts and start monitoring the quarterly goals. In
the area of the Public Sector (a) review and improve the existing physical indicators; open
discussion with technicians of the Planning and Budget Office and public agencies; (b) design
of monetary indicators in current and constant terms; open discussion with technicians of the
Planning and Budget Office and public agencies; (c) the importance of using a budget; and
(d) the importance of the formulation and evaluation phases in the budget process. The
studies recommended the importance of strengthening the budget and the need to provide the
public administration with an integrated system of Budgetary and Accrual Basis Accounting.
Another Consultant did a study on wage policy in the Central Administration and in
Public Enterprises. He was given the following tasks: (a) to define the offices in charge of
introducing and controlling wage policy and its pertinent areas of responsibility; (b) prepare a
retribution system that (i) determines similar wage levels for the different public agencies and
in proportion to the effective hours of work, (ii) permits the recruitment and permanence of
the most qualified personnel, and (iii) standardizes the components of the retribution, thus
avoiding the existence of multiple compensations. In accordance with the Consultant's
recommendations, a decree on promotions was issued establishing a greater evaluation of
rating and qualifications, in detriment of seniority as established by the prevailing system. In
the 1991 Rendering of Accounts, approved on October 30, 1992, a system was created to
eliminate political positions as well as those of high trust.
A Consultant worked on Organizations and Practices in Public Administration (Public
Enterprises). His tasks were to: (a) analyze the procedures structure and (b) redesign the
organizations to adapt them to the present reality and obtain effective and efficient systems.
The recommendations produced the following results: (a) with regards to the transformation
of public enterprises, the Executive Power submitted a bill which was approved on October
1, 1991, with modification. According to this law, public enterprises may be transformed
into mixed enterprises; (b) on December 28, 1990, a rule was passed approving a
considerable increase in the limits for contracting by Autonomous Entities and Decentralized
Services, with the restriction that the Executive Power may stop this system if it is verified
that the management or internal control systems are not reliable; (c) some public enterprises
(ANTEL, BHU, UTE) have transformed their accounting statements in such a way as to
make inflation adjustments in their balances; these enable them to achieve greater precision
and better information opportunities for their managers; and (d) ANTEL has been able to
establish management indicators which are producing a better management evaluation and
control.
Three Consultants worked strengthening the functioning of the National Directorate of
Mining and Geology (DINAMIGE). They had the following tasks: (a) develop a program to
prepare professional and administrative technical staff of the middle and high levels, through
the use of modern techniques for the generation and development of skills to work in
multidisciplinary teams; (b) develop training patterns in (i) team work, (ii) problem analysis
and solution, (iii) time management, (iv) planning and decision-making, (v) administration by
objectives, and (vi) communications and situational leadership; (c) develop a tentative short



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
term action program in order to organize a rationalization process of DINAMIGE's
organization and administrative practices; (d) redefine the objective, goal quantification and
determination of management indicators for the different activities of the Directorate;
(e) analysis of the different forms to carry out each activity with a benefit-cost criteria; and
(f) determination of the input needs (human resources, equipment, materials, etc.) for each
activity. The recommendations covered two areas: DINAMIGE's administration and
training. Institutional strengthening of DINAMIGE covered disbursements and payments,
control and auditing, etc. The Consultants conducted training in styles of learning,
transactional communications, group participation, problem solution and decision-making,
situational leadership, and time management.
A Consultant was given the following tasks: (a) study, analysis and promotion of a
Strategic Planning System and its relationship with the Control system by Results and
(b) effective implementation of a management control system, either as a system of indicators
or as a Program-Agreement. The study presented led to the creation of an Advisory Group
on State Reform in the area of the Planning and Budget Office. This Advisory Group, under
the direction of the Consultant, centered its efforts in the area of Public Enterprises
privatization.
A Consultant worked to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Port of
Montevideo. His tasks were the following (a) develop a tentative short and middle term
action plan to organize the rationalization process of the port activity; (b) present an
analytical report of the Training Program to be carried out in the National Port
Administration (ANP), incorporating the corresponding adjustments; (c) develop the terms of
reference to hire those consultants identified as necessary to perform specific and specialized
studies in the area of maintenance, repair, management of the container terminal and
dredging; (d) match the necessary investments to restructure the incoming-outgoing system of
the Port of Montevideo with the measures for port improvement resulting from sub-paragraph
E; (e) carry out a series of recommendations for the improvement of present port
management in its basic areas, and of technical support as a complement or substitute of
possible investment programmed for ANP in the short and middle term; (f) support the
national counterpart in the improvement of the present tariff system in order that ANP
income is maintained by the rationalization of invoicing for services, making it more
competitive with other ports in the region; and (g) coordinate relations with different
institutions and public and private entities associated with the measures to be duly
implemented. It is considered that the recently approved Port Reform Law, No. 16,246,
April 8, 1992, is partly the consequence of the recommendations made by this Consultant.
Another recommendation refers to the increase in service cost as a result of high tariffs; it
has been recommended to free port income from the fluctuations in imports/exports, and
replacing the "ad valorem" tariff by a direct price on rendered services. It is under
consideration by ANP.



- 30 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
TRAINING ACTIVITIES
Category 2 of the Loan Agreement had originally been assigned US$100,000 for
training activities. It was later allocated an additional US$60,000 due to the need by the
Office of Planning and Budget to train its staff. Of the total amount assigned, US$148,800
were used as of December 31, 1992.
The training courses and seminars for the Office of Planning and Budget covered the
following areas: privatization, public budget, public investments, regional integration,
courses offered by the World Bank, and other courses.
Privatization
1.    Privatization course in Washington, D.C., November 26-December 7, 1990.
2.    Course on "Restructuring of Industrial Enterprises," Washington, D.C., May
5-17, 1991.
3.    Course on "Strategies to Compete in a Free Market," Washington, D.C., May
5-17, 1991.
4.    Seminar on "Privatization, Organization, Structure and Execution,"
Washington, D.C., July 15-26, 1991.
5.    International seminar on Argentine Privatizations, B.A., Argentina, September
11-13, 1991.
6.    Course on "Strategies and Evaluation Techniques," Washington, D.C.,
October 21-November 1, 1991.
II.    Public Budget
1.    "XVIII Inter-American and Iberian Public Budget Seminar," Maryland, May
19-24, 1991.
2.    "The Budget Against the New Challenges Imposed by Planning and Evolution
in Public Policies," Mexico, August 27-30, 1991.
3.    "IV Rio Grande Seminar on Public Budget," Brazil, November 19-22, 1991.
III.   Public Investments
1.    Course on "Investment Promotion," Japan, September 25-November 8, 1989
and September 24-November 7, 1990.
2.    "Inter-American Course on Project Preparation and Evaluation," Chile,
February 25-December 20, 1991.
3.    "Inter-American Course on Formulation, Evaluation and Management of
Public Investment Projects," Argentina, March 6-July 6, 1991.



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
IV.   Regional Integration
1.    MERCOSUR meetings, Brazil, May 5-11, 1991.
V.    World Bank Courses
1.    "Disbursement of WB Loans," Washington, D.C., October 29-November 4,
1989.
2.    Training course in the Legal Department of the World Bank, Washington,
D.C., February-April, 1990.
VI.   Other Courses
1.    "III National Seminar on Statistics," Uruguay, August 1-September 25, 1991.
2.    Courses on Statistics, Chile, October 14-25, 1991.
3.    "First Latin American Congress of Statistical Societies," Chile, November 13-
15, 1991.
4.    "Meeting of the Informal Sector Working Group," Chile, November 21, 1991.
5.    Course on OPEC in English by Video Computer.
6.    Symposiums on Veterinary Investigation in Washington, D.C. and Canada,
October 1991.
7.    Participation of the OPP Sub-directorate in the Seminar for Public Officers
organized by IDB in Washington, D.C., October 21-31, 1991.
The Government concluded that this type of financing for staff training made a great
contribution to increase the level of competence of OPP's staff.
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT
The original allocation of US$225,000 was increased several times in view of the
stated needs. The total amount for this component reached US$452,000.
1.    Purchase of equipment for the Public Health Ministry.
2.    Purchase of PCs for OPP's National Budget Division.
3.    Purchase of laptop computers for OPP's Directorate.
4.    Purchase of a Map Info system, mapping software (statistics and census) for
OPP's General Directorate.
5.    Computer training (statistics and census) for staff from the General
Directorate.
6.    Purchase of computer equipment for the Social Security Bank (BPS); hardware
and software for a system of Tax and Collection Advisory Services (ATYR) at
BPS.
7.    Purchase of additional computer equipment and updated software for OPP.



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
The results obtained from these investments were highly positive, especially OPP's
computerization, the installation of the Production, Performance and Costs system in
hospitals of the Ministry of Public Health, and the modernization introduced in the Tax and
Collection Advisory Services of the Social Security Bank (BPS).






IMAGING
Report No:     14778
Type: PCR



