Page  1
                                         COMFORMED COPY
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2843 UR
                    Loan Agreement
            (Technical Assistance Project)
                        between
            REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
               Dated  September 2, 1987
Page  2
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2843 UR
     AGREEMENT,  dated September 2,  1987,  between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement has requested the Bank to
assist in the
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The  "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
January  l,  1985, with  the  last  sentence  of  Section
3.02 deleted  (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
     Section l.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires,   the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective  meanings  therein  set
forth  and  the  following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Office" means Oficina de Planeamiento y
Presupuesto, the office of Planning and Budgeting of the
Borrower's
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to the
Loan Agreement   an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may he
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,  to be
made)  in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
Page  3
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be September
30,  1989 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the  Bank shall notify  the  Borrower  of  the
Cost  of  Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
         (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
        (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
       (iii)   "Semester"  means  the  first  six
               months  or  the second six months of a
               calendar year.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule  set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The Head of  the Office,  or  the
person  or persons authorized by him in writing, are
designated as representative  of  the  Borrower  for
purposes  of  taking  any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement  and  Article  V  of  the  General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment
Page  4
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project through the Office with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with  appropriate
administrative,  financial  and public utility practices,
and  shall  provide,  promptly as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required
for  the Project.
     Section  3.02. Except  as  the Bank shall  otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall  be  governed  by  the
provisions  of  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  (a) Without in any way limiting the
generality of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, and
with respect of each of the studies included in the
Project, the Borrower and the Bank shall:
         (i)   exchange views during the execution of
               each such study,  at  the  request  of
               each  party,  on  the substantive
               aspects  covered  by  the  study  in
               question; and
        (ii)   upon  presentation  thereof  to  the
               Borrower,  and subsequent transmittal to
               the Bank,  discuss  the findings  and
               recommendations  of  each  report
               submitted  to  the  Borrower  by  the
               corresponding consultant or consultants,
               the action planned to be taken by the
               Borrower  on the basis  of  such
               recommendations,   and  the  estimated
               timetable there for.
     (b)  The studies included in Parts A, B, E and F,
and in Parts C and D of the Project and discussions
referred to in (ii) of paragraph (a) of this Section,
shall be completed by March 31, 1989 and by May 31, 1988,
respectively, and, promptly thereafter, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a plan of  the  action
including a time-table there for, intended to be taken in
respect of the different matters covered by the studies
in question.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the  operations,  resources and expenditures in respect
of  the Project  of  the departments  or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have the records and  accounts  referred
               to  in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently  applied,  by
               independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
Page  5
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than four
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records and
               accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a)  of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,   all   records   (contracts,
               orders, invoices,  bills,  receipt  and
               other  documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
               examine such records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during  such  fiscal  year,
               together  with  the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation,  can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
                      Termination
     Section 5.01.  The date of November 4, 1987 is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
Page  6
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia y
               Finanzas
          Colonia 1089
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINECON                     6269 MINECON
UY
               Montevideo, Uruguay
with copy to:
          Presidencia de la Republica
          Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto
          Planeamiento General
          Edificio Libertad
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:                Telex:
               DICOPRE                     UY 22280
DICOPRE
          International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
               By /s/ Ricardo Zerbino
                           Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                           Regional Vice President
                    Latin America and the Caribbean
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  7
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts  of  the Loan  to  each
Category  and  the  percentage  of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the
                    Loan Allocated      % of
                  (Expressed in     Expenditures
     Category   Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'      585,000          75%
     services
(2)  Training          100,000          100% of foreign
     fellowships                        expenditures
(3)  Computing         225,000          100% of foreign
     equipment                          expenditures and
                                        80% of local
                                        expenditures
(4)  Unallocated        90,000
          TOTAL      1,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures In the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the  territory of  any  country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support
the Borrower's efforts in strengthening the social
security finances and administration; (ii) to enhance the
Office's technical capabilities in respect of analyzing,
programming and monitoring public sector investments;
(iii)  to support the Borrower's efforts to improve the
Borrower's tax system and to reduce evasion of the
payments due thereunder; (iv) to modernize certain
aspects of the legislation related to operation of, and
transactions within, the Borrower's  capital market; (v)
to update the analysis of  the tariff system applicable
to imports into the Borrower's territory;  and  (vi)  to
help initiating a comprehensive program of administrative
reform.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Page  8
Part A:   Social Security Finances and Administration
1.   Execution of a study with the principal aim of
preparing   a specific administrative program and an
implementation schedule thereto  in  light  of  the
Borrower's  proposed  legislation  to restore financial
viability to the social security system.   The specific
objective  of  the  program  is  to  making  the  system
self-financing by the year 2000, while aiming at
increasing the ratio between per capita payment to
beneficiaries and average wages.
2.   The program will consist of short-term (increased
contributions)  and  medium-  to  long-term  measures
(e.g.,  increasing retirement  age  and  eliminating
special  regimes)  to  achieve financial equilibrium of
the social security system. The program will  support
sustainable  long-term  level  of  benefits,  and
adequate contribution levels to finance the program. The
study and  the program will require about 10 months of
consultants' services, and the acquisition and
utilization  by the Office of computing equipment.
3.   The Study will consist of the completion of analyses
previously undertaken by the Borrower on social security
matters by means of:
     (i)  classification of beneficiaries by age, sex,
          and average benefits;
    (ii)  projections of the total working population,
          potential number of new beneficiaries by age,
          sex, proportion of average benefits to
          earnings, and proportion of active workers
          contributing to the system;
   (iii)  analysis of financial implications of the
          projections in (ii) above;
    (iv)  detailed recommendations about the long-term
          soundness of the system; and
     (v)  analysis of the impact of the proposed regime
          on employment, savings and investment, and
          Government transfers.
Part B:   Fiscal Reform Program
1.   Execution of a study with the principal aim at
analyzing the impact of the most recent tax reforms and
looking at the current structure and possible ways of
restructuring the Borrower's tax system to provide
adequate incentives for investment production and
exports, and disincentives to reduce evasion of payments
on taxes due.
2.   The analysis will require about 12 months of
consultants' services and the acquisition and utilization
by the Office of computing equipment.  The study should
include the following elements:
     (i)  analysis of effectiveness of current direct
          and indirect taxation;
    (ii)  impact of the tax system on economic
          activities by sector;
   (iii)  relationship of the various taxes to domestic
          production;
    (iv)  proposed changes to existing consumption
          taxes, patrimony tax and corporate tax;
Page  9
     (v)  preferential treatment of exports and
          investments (e.g., tax exemptions and their
          impact on increasing exports), and
          relationship to agreements under the framework
          of the General Agreements on Trade and
          Tariffs;
    (vi)  strengthening of anti-dumping mechanisms; and
   (vii)  conclusions and recommendations, including an
          action plan to implement the proposed reforms
          of the tax system, and to increase
          effectiveness of tax collection.
Part C:   Public Investment Programming
1.   The principal aim of this Part of the Project is to
strengthen  the  Office  and  the  sectoral  planning
units  to  improve investment  programming  and  project
formulation  execution  and monitoring.
2.   Since preparation of a public investment program
consistent with  the  country's  financial  resources
and  priorities  is  a critical component of the Program,
the Office will be strengthened to enhance its capacity
to analyze,  program and monitor investments as well as
its capacity to provide guidance to other public agencies
in the preparation and evaluation of new investment
projects. This Part of the Project will include hiring of
the services of two experts for the total of about twelve
months that will be attached to the Office and training
fellowships for Office staff.
3.   A study will be executed under this Part of the
Project and it will include the following elements:
     (i)  detailed  proposals  to  strengthen  the
          structure  and procedures used by the main
          implementing agencies  to identify, prepare,
          select and follow-up projects;
    (ii)  recommendations  to  change  budgetary
          procedures  and their relationship to
          programming public investments in a
          medium-term framework;
   (iii)  analysis  of  and  recommendations  on
          institutional framework and procedures for
          decision-making regarding the level and
          composition of public investment in each
          sector,  including the role,  staffing and
          methodology used by the Borrower's ministry of
          Economy and Finance and by the Office;
    (iv)  generation of information for monitoring
          projects under execution, and for preparation
          of new projects;
     (v)  adequacy of budget allocation  for  recurrent
          expenditures and institutional framework to
          determine such allocation both at the agencies
          and at the Ministerial and Office levels;
    (vi)  review  procedures  to measure actual  vs.
          programmed investments and analysis of
          deviations; and
   (vii)  support and advise the Office on the
          implementation of the Borrower's  action plan
          that will strengthen the Office planning
Page  10
          procedures and the sectoral planning units of
          the Borrower's ministries and other agencies
          involved in the public  investments  program
          of  the Borrower.
Part D:   Capital Markets
1.   Execution of a study with the aim of improving the
capital market structure and reducing financing cost to
corporations by introducing a revised corporate law,
securities law and bankruptcy law.
2.   The  study will  require  about  6  months  of
consultants' services  and  will  consist  of  the
preparation  of  revised corporation, bankruptcy and
securities draft laws. The updating of  the  corporation
law  will  ensure  that  its  provisions  are adequate
to  meet  the  requirements  and  operations  of  modern
corporations. The updating of bankruptcy law will aim to
making more  expeditious  the  arrangement  and
bankruptcy  proceeding, including  streamlining  of
liquidation  procedures.  Either  the revised
corporation  or  security  law  or  both  will  involve
dissemination of information, auditing requirements,
protection of minorities'  rights,  etc.,  so as  to
encourage wider public participation in channeling
savings for equity and long-term bond financing. The
combined regulations will provide incentives  to
corporations,  creditors  (including  commercial  banks)
and  the public to participate in capital formation
beyond the existing mediums of deposits, short-term loans
and purchases of Government bonds.
Part E:   Import Tariff regime
1.   Execution of a study hereunder to update and review
the analytical basis to guide further tariff reductions,
and assure that  tariff  rationalization is  consistent
with the Borrower's economic growth and development
targets.
2.   The study hereunder will assist the Borrower in
analyzing the  impact  of  further  import  tariff
reform,  as  well  as  in determining what additional
tariff adjustments or other measures may be needed to
reduce effective protection, using as a starting point
the previous studies initiated under the Bank financed
Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1930-UR).  The
study will require about 3.5 months of consultants'
services to update the tariff protection studies and to
provide advice as the Borrower proceeds with further
tariff rationalization.
Part F:   Administrative Reform Program
1.   Execution of a study to analyze  general  levels
and qualifications of civil service employment aiming at
developing a leaner and adequately staffed civil service.
The study will also examine  and   revise  the
procurement  procedures  of  public
organizations which impede delivery of efficient
services.
2.   The study will require about  15 months  of
consultants' services and cover the following elements:
     (i)  analysis of the salary and incentive
          policies, including the impact of multiple
          employment practices on the efficiency of the
          public administration, and possible steps to
          remedy the situation--appropriate salary
          levels, changes in working hours, etc.--to
Page  11
          retain and attract an adequate number of
          skilled civil servants;
    (ii)  analysis of the organization and practices in
          public administration, including staffing
          levels, personnel policies, skills and
          qualifications of public employees,
          administrative procedures, etc.  The analysis
          will cover Central Government, public
          enterprises, and the Municipality of
          Montevideo;
   (iii)  current legal framework for the reform, and
          constraints
    (iv)  procedures governing procurement for public
          investment projects and the relationship and
          control exercised by the  Borrower's  central
          administration  over  state enterprises.
               *         *         *         *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1989.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed
in dollars)*
On each May and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1990
     through November 15, 2001               40,000
On May 15, 2002                              80,000
     *    The  figures  in  this  column  represent
dollar  equivalents determined as of the respective dates
of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per
                                   annum) applicable to
                                   the balance
                                   outstanding on the
                                   Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.20
     before maturity
Page  12
More than three years but                    0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not               0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                     1.00
     before maturity
                      SCHEDULE 4
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
     Section I.          Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in  Uruguay may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to,  the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Computing equipment may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for computing
equipment estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$50,000  or  more,  the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of  the Special Account,  such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior
to the making of the first payment out of  the Special
Account in respect  of  such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not
Page  13
governed  by  the preceding paragraph, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account,  said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the
other  information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished  pursuant
to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan
Account  on  the basis  of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Studies  included  in  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  employ consultants  whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
on  the  basis  of  the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means the
Categories (1),  (2)  and  (3)  set  forth  in  the
table  in  paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated  from  time  to
time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an
amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively
for  eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals  of  the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made
as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the
Borrower for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the  Bank
shall,  on  he half  of  the Borrower,  withdraw from
the Loan Account  and  deposit  in the Special Account
Page  14
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan  Account
and  deposit  into  the  Special Account  such  amounts
as  shall  be  required  to  replenish  the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All
such deposits  shall  be withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from
the Loan Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories,  and  in  the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account for which the Borrower requests
replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule,  any  request  for a further deposit
into the Special Account may be denied by the Bank when
either of the following situations arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all
               further withdrawals  should  be  made  by
               the  Borrower directly from the Loan
               Account in accordance with the
               provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
               General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
               Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
               allocated to the eligible Categories,
               minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
               of twice the amount of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after  and  to
the extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been satisfied
that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  (i)
was  made  for  any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of  this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice  from
the  Bank,  deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal  to  the amount  of  such payment or the
Page  15
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount
for crediting to the Loan Account and for the immediate
cancellation thereof.
