Report No. PIC5042
Project Name                    Argentina-AIDS & Sexually Transmitted ...
Diseases Control Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Health
Project ID                      ARPA43418
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS)
1925 Ave. 9 de Julio - Piso 7 Buenos
Aires, ARGENTINA
Phone: (54-1) 372-3733/3832
Fax: (54-1) 382-9366/6982
-NGOs involved in AIDS prevention
programs nationwide
Contact Point    Dr. Roberto Pagano
9 de Julio 1925, Piso 4
Buenos Aires, ARGENTINA
Tel. 541-372-3832
Fax: 541-382-9366
Date this PID Prepared           April 24, 1997
Appraisal Date                   February 15, 1997
Projected Board Date            May 22, 1997
1. Country and Sector Background: The HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Argentina has increased significantly since 1992 and 1993 when for
the first time more than 1,000 cases were reported each year, and
in 1994 it doubled. By the end of the first trimester of 1996,
8,198 had been reported cumulatively (10,793 cases after correcting
for delay in the reporting) or 312 AIDS cases per million
inhabitants. According to the number of reported AIDS cases,
Argentina ranks fifth in the continent, after the United States,
Brazil, Mexico and Canada; according to the cases per population
(rate), Argentina ranks third. It is noteworthy that the three
countries with the highest AIDS rates in the Americas have
significant HIV transmission associated with injective drug
behaviors. The sexual transmission of HIV, excluding secondary
cases of injective drug users (IDUs), has a pattern similar to
neighboring countries (i.e., Chile).
The rate for male cases (82w of the total cases) is 383 per million
men, while there are 86 cases among females per million women. Of
the total number of reported cases, 74t are men 15 to 49 years of
age; 14t are among women of the same age group.
Eighty-five percent of the total cases are located in three
geographical areas. The most affected area (ranked by rate) is the
Federal Capital (Buenos Aires City) with a rate of 1,036 cases per
million inhabitants (3,096 cases); the second most affected area is



Santa Fe jurisdiction with a rate of 237 cases per million (732
cases) and thirdly Buenos Aires provincial jurisdiction with a rate
of 237 cases per million inhabitants or 3,120 cumulative cases (38w
of the total). Of these three areas, the highest increase since
1990 was in the Buenos Aires jurisdiction with 106 cases reported
by 1990 and 726 by 1995.
The majority of cases in the beginning of the epidemic (1982-1987)
were homosexual and bisexual men (76%), however by 1995 this
category represented 26% of the total. Cases among hemophiliacs and
blood transfusion recipients has decreased over time and in 1996
they represented 1% of the total. Forty-two percent of the cases
are IDUs; AIDS cases among IDUs are typically young (63% of them
are less than 30 years of age), and have low educational attainment
(239 have junior high school or more). The number of cases among
heterosexual individuals is steadily increasing, and in 1995
represented 20% of the total reported cases that year. A cumulative
of 494 cases were newborns from HIV-infected women. Even when the
exact figure is unknown, a significant number of cases in the
heterosexual category are the female sexual partners of IDUs and
their newborns. Because of the difficulties in determining the size
of the population of men who engage in same-gender sexual behavior
and of IDUs, the rate estimates (cases per population) are unknown.
A larger concentration of cases among IDUs is in the Federal
Capital City, and in Buenos Aires and Santa Fe jurisdictions (92%
of cases); while in these three areas 83% of heterosexual cases and
78.5% of cases among homo-bisexual men are concentrated.
Government Response Because of a mandate to provide the best
quality of care possible, and the diminution of avoidable risks of
death or disease for all, the federal government has included in
its plans and policies the fight against HIV/AIDS, including the
provision of the screening of donations in blood banks and the
provision of antiretroviral and prophylactic drugs for HIV infected
and AIDS patients. The budget of the National Program to Fight
Human Retroviruses and AIDS has increased from US$8,058,000 in 1994
to US$19,332,000 in 1996. A recent modification of this program has
added the control of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) to the
national program. Even when the budget has increased over the
years, it is insufficient because it is mainly devoted to the
provision of reagents for HIV testing and for prophylactic and
antiretroviral drugs to AIDS patients (98% of the budget). Due to
the relative scarcity of newer resources and the rapid increase of
the AIDS epidemic, it is possible that the sources for the coming
years is not sufficient for the provision of adequate levels of
care for all AIDS patients. The National AIDS/STD program pays for
the antirretroviral drugs from the federal budget without
participation of the social security or private insurance systems.
The predominant way of providing care is through in-hospital care.
However, alternate and more efficient ways for the provision of
care are being sought, such as the development of protocols for
ambulatory care.
Due to these budget constraints, the national AIDS Program has
devoted only limited resources to the prevention of HIV-
- 2 -



transmission. Strict norms for bio-security in blood banks have
been issued and have been enforced in major hospitals in urban
areas. However, the screening of 100% of blood packages before
transfusion and 100% compliance with universal precaution norms
have not yet been reached in all facilities.
The complex nature of HIV prevention mandates the involvement of
the civil society. Many Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) are
conducting activities on HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation of its
impact, and it has been shown that their embededness in affected
communities allow them to provide an effective response in
prevention of HIV infection and in the amelioration of its impact.
Also, due to their community based nature, scarcity of resources,
and recent creation, many of these institutions need to develop
their institutional capacity in order to increase the efficiency of
their interventions and to guarantee the sustainability of their
operation.
Unfortunately, AIDS patients in Argentina, as well as in other
countries, suffer discrimination and stigmatization. Their
discrimination relates not only to discrimination in the workplace,
but also in the avoidance of preventive interventions, and the
provision of inadequate health care services, resulting in delay or
avoidance of early diagnosis and treatment.
2. Project Objectives. The Project will work to reduce the rate of
growth of the incidence of HIV infection by 15 percent. To achieve
this objective the following strategies would be adopted: (a)
reduce misconceptions about the transmission and prevention of
HIV/AIDS and STDs by 25 percent; (b) increase the proportion of the
population at high risk of HIV infection that adopts preventive
measures to reduce the spread of HIV and STDs by 15 percent; (c)
reduce transmission of HIV through blood transfusions and other
biological products by 50 percent; (d) reduce mother-child
transmission by 30 percent. The Project will also work to improve
the quality and efficiency of care provided to AIDS patients,
indicated by decreased hospital admissions and decreased length of
stay in hospitals.
3. Project Description: The project, whose total cost is estimated
at US$30 million, would be implemented over a four-year period
starting in 1997 and would have five components. These components
include: (a) Health Promotion. This component would cover (i) mass
and targeted communication campaigns; and (ii) primary and
secondary education on HIV/AIDS and STDs, including educational
materials, teacher training and school-based participatory
projects. (b) Prevention of HIV and STD transmission. This will
consist of (i) prevention fund for high risk groups, vulnerable
groups and the general population; (ii) blood bank quality control;
and (iii) mother-child transmission control. (c) Diagnosis,
treatment and care of HIV infection and STDs. This component would
help finance the (i) establishment of anonymous diagnostic and
counseling centers; (ii) strengthening or developing of
laboratories, day care centers, home care services and STD
diagnosis and treatment services; and (iii) institutional
-3 -



development, including the training of physicians and other health
care personnel in the diagnosis, treatment, counseling and care of
HIV/AIDS and STD patients. (d) Monitoring, Evaluation and Research.
This component will work to (i) strengthen the HIV/AIDS management
information system, including the establishment of an HIV and STD
surveillance system with about 20 sentinel centers; (ii) train
physicians and other health care personnel in completing death
certificates and hospital discharge summaries and statistics, using
STDs and AIDS related diseases as tracer conditions; (iii) train
Municipal/Provincial programs and heads of sentinel centers in
epidemiology and planning; (iv) periodic survey using HIV/STD-
related Knowledge, Attitude and Practice survey (KAP); (v) review
financial and management arrangements, and evaluate ex-post a
sample of subprojects; and (vi) support research and development
studies on AIDS/STDs. (e) Project Administration. This component
would help strengthen the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit
through the provision of specialized technical assistance and
staff, and the acquisition and use of appropriate office space,
equipment and communications services.
4. Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at US$30 million.
Bank financing would be for US$15 million, and the federal
government would finance the remaining US$15 million.
5. Project Implementation. The executing agency will be the
Ministry of Health.
6. Project Sustainability. The project would be sustainable because
(i) the Government is committed to the project; (ii) the fiscal
impact of the project is very modest; (iii) the PCU is strong and
will merge progressively into the National Program for AIDS and STD
control; and (iv) major stakeholders in civil society will be
involved in project oversight.
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
(a)     Importance of agreeing on performance indicators at the
outset of the project, and on an adequate monitoring system. The
project will strengthen the MoH management information system. A
set of 14 agreed Monitoring Indicators are part of the Loan
Agreement's Supplemental Letter.
(b)     CSO capacity is limited for presenting subprojects, for
ensuring the administrative requirements of a typical Bank project
and for maintaining good accounts. When working through CSOs, the
need for TA (Technical Assistance) should be anticipated for
project preparation and presentation. The proposed project would
retroactively finance TA for subproject preparation, and the PCU
(Project Coordinating Unit) will organize or contract launching
workshops and offer technical assistance to CSOs which do not have
sufficient technical capacity for preparation and presentation of
the subprojects. Likewise, the PCU will provide and maintain a
standard software for accounting and stating expenditures.
(c)     Single disease projects tend to become isolated in the
respective provincial MoH leading to progressive alienation. Within
projects it is easy for different components to overlap and
-4 -



duplicate efforts. The project would be guided by a steering
committee which would ensure integration with the MoH and the
AIDS/STD program. In the third and fourth year of project
implementation, the project would progressively merge with the
AIDS/STD program.
(d)     Bank procurement procedures are often ill-suited for the
procurement of condoms, diagnostic supplies, and pharmaceuticals,
leading to shortages and delays. The Project would be assisted by
UN agencies (i.e. UNDP, UNAIDS) in the procurement of such goods,
and in contracting consultants.
8. Poverty Category. N/A
9. Environmental Aspects. The project consists mostly of mass and
focused communication campaigns, training, and community-based
subprojects with no environmental impact. Refurbishment and
equipment of existing laboratories and day care centers will not
add significant hazardous medical wastes. Issues related to
hospital hazardous waste treatment and disposal, including those
derived from AIDS and STD patients, are being addressed by the
Provincial Health Sector Development Project (Ln 3931).
10. Program Objective Categories. The primary categories are
Institution-Building and Policy.
Contact Point:           Alexandre V. Abrantes, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 5 -



