                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28780

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-41680 TF-29515)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR AN

             AIDS AND SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES CONTROL PROJECT




                                              June 21, 2004




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Human Development Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective April 26, 2004)

                                       Currency Unit = Argentina Peso
                                           ARS$ 2.85 = US$ 1.00
                                            US$ 0.35 = ARS$1.00

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 -      December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC:          Anonymous Diagnostic Centers
AIDS/SIDA:    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAR:          Country Assistance Review
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
CONASIDA:     National AIDS Council
CSO:          Civil Society Organization(s) (church-, community-, company-, trade union-, etc. based organizations)
DCC(s):       Day Care Center(s)
GDP:          Gross Domestic Product
GNP:          Gross National Product
GoA:          Government of Argentina
HIV/VIH:      Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
IBRD:         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB:          Inter-American Development Bank
IDU:          Injected Drug Users
IERR:         Internal Economic Rate of Return
KAP:          Knowledge, Attitude, Practice (Survey)
LUSIDA:       AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Disease Control Project
MCH:          Maternal and Child Health
MoE:          Ministry of Education
MoH:          Ministry of Health
NCB:          National Competitive Bidding
NPV:          Net Present Value
OM:           Operational Manual
PAHO/WHO:     Pan-American Health Organization/World Health Organization
PCU:          Project Coordinating Unit
PISP(s):      Participatory Institutional School Projects
PROMIN:       Argentina Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (I and II)
SIDALAC:      Latin American/Caribbean Initiative for AIDS/STD Control
SOE:          Statement of Expenditures
STD:          Sexually Transmitted Disease(s)
TA:           Technical Assistance
UNAIDS:       United Nations AIDS Program
UNDP:         United Nations Development Programme
ARV:          Anti-retroviral Drugs
NGOs:         Non-governmental Organizations
CSW:          Comercial Sex Workers
MSM:          Men Who Have Sex with Men


                                     Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                                  Country Director        Axel van Trotsenburg
                                    Sector Manager        Evangeline Javier
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:               Cristian C. Baeza

                                        ARGENTINA
                  AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control Control


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 32

Project ID: P043418                                                  Project Name: AR-AIDS and STD Control
Team Leader: Cristian C. Baeza                                       TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR-AIDS and STD Control                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-41680; TF-29515
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (79%); Central government administration (7%); Primary
                            education (7%); Secondary education (7%)
                  Theme: HIV/AIDS (P); Health system performance (P); Population and
                            reproductive health (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/15/1996                                     Effective: 08/22/1997                11/14/1997
     Appraisal: 02/03/1997                                         MTR: 03/20/2000                  03/27/2000
      Approval: 05/22/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Evangeline Javier                              Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:             Cristian C. Baeza                              Alexander Abrantes
ICR Primary Author:             Cristian C. Baeza; Jorge C.
                                Barrientos; Isabel Noguer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The HIV epidemic in Argentina had increased significantly during the first half of the 1990s when, for the
first time in the Argentine health system reached more than 2000 by the end of 1994. Although the pattern
of the epidemic was similar to other countries in the region and Argentina at that time had the fifth highest
AIDS prevalence in the region, Argentina was the only one without an effective public HIV/AIDS
prevention program.

The development objectives of the Argentina Aids and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control Project
(LUSIDA) were: a) to reduce the rate of growth of the incidence of HIV infection by 15 percent; and b) to
improve the quality and efficiency of care provided to AIDS patients. The project planned to achieve these
objectives through improving information and decreasing misconceptions about HIV transmission and
prevention among the population-at-risk; promoting more effective adoption of preventive measures against
HIV; improving specialized facilities for diagnosis, treatment and care practices of HIV/Sexually
Transmitted Diseases (STD) patients; and improving the monitoring and evaluation of HIV and STD
infection, diagnosis, treatment and care in the country.

The project was designed to finance HIV/AIDS and STD-related health promotion and disease prevention
activities with a focus on the federal capital and the provinces of Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Santa Fé,
where 85 percent of the HIV/AIDS cases were concentrated at the time of preparation. The project would
also strengthen existing diagnostic, treatment, counseling and care services in the targeted areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not formally revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Aids and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control Project (LUSIDA) consisted of the following
components:

A.     Health Promotion.     (US$12.5 million; 42% of total costs).         This component supported the
implementation of subprojects in the participating provinces and the city of Buenos Aires to increase the
knowledge of the population about the transmission and prevention of HIV/AIDS and STDs, and to reduce
the social discrimination against HIV/AIDS patients.          These subprojects included: (i) the design,
production, distribution, and dissemination of mass- and targeted communication campaigns; and (ii)
education on HIV/AIDS in primary and secondary schools, including the development of educational
materials for teachers, parents and students, the training of teachers, and the preparation and execution of
school-based participatory activities.

B. Prevention of HIV and STD Transmission. (US$7.3 million; 24% of total project costs). This
component supported the implementation of subprojects, selected on a competitive basis in project areas, to
reduce the spread of HIV and STDs through increasing the proportion of the population at high risk that
adopts preventive measures, to reduce the transmission of HIV through transfusion of blood and other
biological products, and to reduce the mother-child transmission of HIV and syphilis. Activities included:
(i) prevention subprojects for specific high-risk groups organized by NGOs and other civil society
organizations; (ii) subprojects to improve blood quality control through equipping and training of staff in
blood banks where the quality of blood was not yet fully ensured; (iii) review and, when necessary, change
of routine prenatal care standards to include the diagnosis and treatment of HIV in pregnant women; (iv)
introduction of the diagnosis and treatment of HIV in pregnant women as part of the standard prenatal care



                                                     - 2 -

package in order to reduce vertical transmission; and (v) revision and change of legislation to include
diagnosis and treatment of HIV in pregnant women in the package of essential services to be covered by
government health services, by the social insurance system and by private health insurers in order to
reduce vertical transmission.

C. Diagnosis, Treatment and Care of HIV Infection and STDs. (US$6.5 million; 21.7% of total project
costs). This component supported the implementation of subprojects, selected on a competitive basis in the
project areas, aimed at improving the diagnosis, treatment, counseling and care provided for HIV and STD
patients. It included: (i) the establishment of anonymous diagnostic centers; (ii) the establishment or
improvement of hospitals or ambulatory health centers, laboratories, day care services, and STD diagnosis
and treatment services, and (iii) training of physicians and other health care personnel in the diagnosis,
treatment, counseling and care of HIV/AIDS and STD patients.

D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research. (US$1.7 million; 5.6% of total project costs). This component
supported the implementation of studies and provision of technical assistance and training to improve
information on AIDS and STDs, to monitor project performance, and to advance knowledge on AIDS and
STDs. These included: (i) the establishment of an HIV and STD surveillance system, including the
creation of at least 20 sentinel sites for high risk groups; (ii) updating of equipment and software and
training of provincial and national ministries of health staff in the operation of the HIV/AIDS management
information system; (iii) training of physicians and other health personnel in the preparation of death
certificates and hospital discharge summaries and statistics, using AIDS and STDs as tracer conditions;
(iv) surveying of HIV/STD related knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) surveys; (v) conducting
ex-post evaluation and financial and management reviews of a sample of subprojects, and (vi) carrying out
research and development studies on AIDS/STDs.

E. Project Administration. (US$2.0 million; 6.7% of total project costs). This component supported the
Project Coordination Unit for project management, including the provision of specialized technical
assistance and staff and the acquisition and use of appropriate office space, equipment and communications
services.

Assessment. Overall, the components were appropriate, reflected current knowledge and experience at the
time, and were directly related to the achievement of project objectives. The project focus on preventive
efforts was complementary to the Ministry of Health's (MOH) efforts to address treatment and care
through other programs. At the time of project design, there were no Bank-financed projects of similar
nature that had been evaluated. Most experience was drawn from the design of HIV/AIDS projects in
Brazil, Africa and programs in the USA, as well as other health projects with relevant features.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. As mentioned above, only the indicators for monitoring were
adjusted (rate of incidence measured by variation in percent of prevalence in at least two sentinel
populations and the level of knowledge about HIV in different populations surveyed).

In late 2002 the Borrower and the Bank agreed on a reallocation of the remaining loan proceeds (US $1.2
million) from Civil Works to Consultant Services in order to implement the massive media communication
campaign for HIV/AIDS prevention. Also, about US $0.4 million was reallocated to the Goods category to
purchase HIV diagnosis kits to be used for prevention of vertical transmission.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were coherent and adequate for the epidemic level at the time when they were



                                                     - 3 -

formulated. There was no Quality Assurance Group review. The project pursued strategic priorities for
controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which were badly needed in Argentina by the time it was prepared.
The project supported existing CAS objectives of enhancing social development in Argentina and
improving social services for the most vulnerable groups in Society. Project design was consisted with the
CAS objectives of institutional building and enhancing the participation of community based organizations
in project implementation. The project complemented other projects including the CAS, such as the
Provincial Health Development Project and the Health Insurance Reform Project. Together they responded
to the CAS objectives of reducing the catastrophic impact of AIDS of lower income families where the
disease was more prevalent.

The Ministry of Health capacity to manage and implement the project was assessed and found satisfactory,
reflecting the extensive experience of the National Ministry of Health in implementing Bank financed
projects. The MOH however required substantial technical assistance for the specifics of the HIV/AIDS
prevention aspects of project design. The Bank played a significant role in bringing such expertise into
project preparation.

 The Bank played an important role in both, the design and implementation stages mainly by helping to
maintain a focus on prevention, on high risk groups and by involving other key actors, particularly NGOs
and Civil Society Organizations (CSO).

The project design was appropriate to the needs identified in the sector, but there were several design
features that could have been improved, including: a) a better definition of the first development objective
in order to facilitate measurement; and b) weak government commitment at appraisal on the prevention
communication campaign (Component A). The impact of these issues during project implementation is
detailed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2.

Although there was no QER before project effectiveness, in early March 2001, an external QER was
conducted at the request of the LAC Region. The QER review was unusual in that the project was nearing
completion. The Closing Date at that time was December 31, 2001. The Mid-Term Review was carried
out in March/April 2000. The QER determined that the project's original development objectives were too
ambitious and were unlikely to be realized by the Closing Date. The Loan had been structured in a way
that resulted in the Bank financing 97 percent of total project expenditures with consequent unusually low
counterpart funding at the time of the review. From the PAD and other documentation, the Panel members
felt that the original project design was much too ambitious for the modest resources allocated, and that
even a scaled-down set of objectives would be difficult to realize without additional funding, whether from
government or from the Bank. The Panel advised the team to focus next missions on the prevention
components as the most critical contribution the Bank could make at the time would have been to help
ensure the prevention program achieves a sustainable level of effort, with or without more financial support
from the Bank.

The extensive participation of NGOs and grassroots organizations fostered the development of
public-private collaboration, which was critical for achieving the desired outcomes. The Bank team
encouraged the national team efforts to engage with NGOs and CSOs and the role of these organizations, a
key design feature of the project, was fundamental. First, they brought an essential knowledge of local
realities and needs to both preparation and implementation, ensuring ownership of the project particularly
by populations at risk. Second, some of the organizations also had state-of-the art technical expertise that
significantly enriched project strategy design. Third, and most importantly, the active presence of NGOs
and CSOs during preparation and particularly during the first two to three years of project implementation,
maintained the pressure and the debate regarding the need for implementing the massive prevention


                                                    - 4 -

communication campaign. The Bank also played an important role in this regard. Records show that
project appraisal was delayed for a few months until an agreement was reached with the Ministry of
Health to include the prevention communication campaign.

The Bank had four project preparation missions (including identification and appraisal). Mission team
included TTL and high level experts on HIV/AIDS programs in OECD countries.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The LUSIDA Project had a significant development impact on the AIDS epidemic in Argentina, mostly due
to support for the prevention of vertical transmission (from mother to child), the development of a
significant HIV/AIDS surveillance system, and the implementation of the prevention communication
campaign. The project had a slow start and some initial implementation problems, but these outcomes
were mostly achieved through an acceleration of project implementation during the last three years of the
project and to a significant increase in the government's commitment to prevention and promotion with its
own funds, even during the socioeconomic crisis of 2001-2002.              During the last two years of
implementation, LUSIDA had a preeminent role in supporting the government's renewed agenda for
HIV/AID prevention and it was fully integrated into the Ministry of Health as a line unit.

In 2001-2002, the Argentine economy entered into the deepest recession in generations, with its GDP
falling by 20 percent in the last four years, including by 10.9 percent in 2002. Combined with the strong
depreciation of the Argentine peso, the economic decline had left per capita income at US$2,695 (in 2002),
down from over US$8,000 in the 1997/98 period.              According to the Bank's Atlas methodology, per
capita GNI in 2002 declined to US$4,060 from US$8,030 in 1998. The crisis had a very negative effect on
all IBRD-financed projects in Argentina. The implementation of the LUSIDA Project was significantly
delayed during this time. Troublesome signs and symptoms were observed in core public health programs,
in access to and delivery of individual health care services (of all complexity levels), and in the coverage
and effectiveness of the various health insurance systems. Critical national health programs including
immunizations, tuberculosis (TB), maternal and child health (MCH) and HIV-AIDS, suffered major
deterioration during 2001 and early 2002, precisely in a moment of soaring needs.

However, in late 2002, under a new government and project management, the project significantly
contributed to establishing the strategy and managing the overall HIV/AIDS prevention and antiretroviral
programs during the peak of the crisis and thereafter. It was also at that time that the project was able to
support the new MOH authorities to finally launch the prevention communication campaign under
Component A. It was this renewed commitment that persuaded management to request an extension of the
Closing Date by two years until December 2003, which was approved by the Bank.                       Project
implementation during the extension period significantly improved overall project development objective
performance.

Reduction of rate of growth of HIV incidence / prevalence: Satisfactory

The original definition of this objective made it difficult to evaluate and monitor project performance for
this objective. The project was prepared in 1996, when epidemiological surveillance systems available in
the country did not allow for identifying and monitoring HIV incidence (number of new infection cases in
the year). New infection cases are usually a-symptomatic. At that time, no Latin American country or
National AIDS Programs had such systems or data available and it was unlikely they would be available in
the short term. At that time Argentina also did not have a baseline for growth of incidence of HIV infection.



                                                     - 5 -

Argentina's epidemiological information system in 1995-96 was based on the AIDS cases (patients with
symptomatic infection) registry and a few only sentinel sites existed but few systematized information was
collected. This led to the use of different statistical methods, mostly based on population surveys rather
than testing, to evaluate growth of HIV incidence. Moreover, it was not possible to define a base line for
HIV incidence, and trends had to be estimated based on the evolution of AIDS prevalence (total number of
symptomatic). When monitoring of prevalence was introduced in different segments of the populations it
allowed the possibility to make indirect estimates of HIV incidence. During the mid-term review, and
recognizing the methodological difficulties to monitor this objective resulting from the definition of
reducing incidence growth by 15 percent, the Bank and the borrower agreed on a new monitoring indicator
based on prevalence of HIV positive among blood donors, with the target set specifically at reducing
prevalence among blood donors by 5%.

According to official data, it is estimated that about 120,000 persons are currently living with HIV in
Argentina. The prevalence rate (as estimated from HIV positive blood donors) is relatively high at 1.7 per
thousand inhabitants in 2003, down from 2.2 per thousand in 2002. Also, AIDS cases (adjusted by
reporting delays) decreased by about 31 percent (from 2,900 cases to 2,000) between 1998-2002.
Although establishing direct causality is very difficult in both cases, it was during this period of time when
the project actively implemented most of the prevention components and, at that time, it was the only major
prevention initiative in the country. As described above, given that there was no available data on incidence
for most of the project lifetime, it is not possible to evaluate the impact of the project on reducing the
incidence of HIV infection. However, considering the revised objective of reducing HIV prevalence, as
measured from blood donors, the project contributed to the reduction of about 23 percent of prevalence of
HIV infection, significantly higher that the revised target of 5 percent. In addition, as detailed in Section
4.2 and in Annex 1, project output far exceeded most of its targets and, perhaps more importantly, it
significantly contributed to maintain the public debate about HIV/AIDS prevention, even during the early
years of implementation when the lack of political commitment for public education was a significant
problem.

Data on HIV prevalence from Sentinel Surveillance studies suggest that the evolution of HIV prevalence in
different populations between 1998 and 2001 has been positive.             The HIV prevalence in high-risk
populations, such as commercial sex workers (CSW), people attending the testing centers or STD patients
has decreased in an important way, as well as the prevalence of those of at low or variable risk. However,
the shortcomings of using prevalence of HIV infection as a proxy for general population HIV infection
support the implementation of the HIV incidence system. During project implementation, the Bank and the
borrower discussed the possibility of implementing an information system collecting new HIV diagnosis,
allowing the recollection of countrywide HIV diagnosis incidence rates and better estimates of HIV
incidence. A new system was implemented in late 2001 but, it still needs more time to extend coverage and
be as comprehensive as needed. The design and implementation process of this new HIV incidence system
has been satisfactory, but results and data would only become available by the end of 2004. Indeed,
extrapolations of the blood donor HIV prevalence to the general population suggest that the general
population prevalence might be around 3.2 per one thousand, which is comparable with that estimated for
countries more affected by the epidemic.

It should be noted that the latest advances in treatment and their impact on AIDS incidence and mortality
rates have affected the evolution of the epidemic, increasing the prevalence of people living with HIV. The
AIDS incidence has been reduced and in most cases, probably affecting under-diagnosed people. The
evolution of care and its quality have also been satisfactory during the last five years. New diagnosis and
counseling centers have been opened and hospitals have adapted structures and developed training
programs to cope with the epidemic.


                                                     - 6 -

In summary, the evolution of the epidemic in Argentina has been positive. In accordance with the evolution
of AIDS incidence, project interventions contributed significantly to reduce the incidence of new infections
in wide sectors of the population at risk. The LUSIDA Project appropriately deserves a significant share of
credit for the overall success of the HIV/AIDS program in Argentina.

Yet, a word of caution seems to be necessary. The current turnaround of the incidence of STD among
populations with sexual risk, the fatigue in prevention measures in certain groups and the devastating
effects of the recent economic crisis need a solid strategy with renewed efforts and resources. The key
challenges faced by the MOH, at present are: (i) to slow down the wave of sexual transmission, secondary
to the epidemic among Injected Drug Users (IDUs) mainly affecting women; (ii) to approach the epidemic
of illegal drug use with programs of "Harm Reduction" (exchange of syringes and extensive provision of
sterile injection material), promotion of testing and access to health care; (iii) to reduce the diagnosis delay
for AIDS and HIV cases to be able to intervene preventively and to ensure that those infected by HIV can
benefit from treatment and care; (iv) to avoid HIV infections and AIDS cases transmitted from mother to
child by offering HIV testing to all pregnant women and Antiretroviral (ARV) prophylaxis to all those
infected by HIV. Regarding the last issue, the MOH has recently launched a fortified milk distribution
program for children of infected mothers.

Improve the quality and efficiency of care provided to AIDS patients: Satisfactory

The project contributed to many improvements in quality of care through multiple subprojects.
Unfortunately, there is scarce data on monitoring patient care sub-projects, except for the quality of care of
the Mother-Child during pregnancy, avoiding vertical transmission. The rating of this component is based
mainly on the significant results (output and outcomes) showing prevention of vertical transmission. On
time, sound treatment of pregnant women resulting in prevention of vertical transmission is one
(significant) indicator of improvements in the quality of care of AIDS patients (mother and child in this
case). It also is determined by, although causality is more difficult to demonstrate, important reductions in
HIV/AIDS related mortality.

Testing of pregnant women for HIV increased from 0 to 72 (Cordoba)­67 percent (City of Buenos Aires)
in the four areas of the project (greater than target of 50 percent) due to direct project policy, advocacy,
technical support and, in many cases, supply of testing kits. Treatment for HIV positive pregnant women
(direct impact on preventing vertical transmission) went from less than 50 to 92 percent countrywide
(target was 75 percent). This led to one of the most positive effects of the project, the reduction in AIDS
cases due to vertical transmission (from mother to child during pregnancy), which decreased from 7.8
percent of total AIDS cases in 1997 (very high) to 3.4 percent in 2003 (which is still high, but within
reasonable limits). Similarly, mortality related to HIV/AIDS decreased by 28 percent between 1996 and
2001 (from 2,055 to 1,472 deaths). In both cases, the evolution has been favorable and within the limits
that could be expected under an adequate coverage of Antiretroviral (ARV) therapies, purchased and
financed by the MOH, but with significant policy advice from the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. Health Promotion: Satisfactory

The Health Promotion Component was widely implemented in schools in 1999 and 2000. However, over
the next two years, the effort was considerably reduced due to shortages of budgetary resources. Despite
these shortcomings, more than 3,000 educators in the project areas were trained and qualified on AIDS and
STD prevention education, resulting in more than 90 percent of all schools having at least one leading



                                                      - 7 -

teacher on this subject, significantly more than the original project target of 40 percent. In addition, the
first sexual education materials for school activities were issued and distributed to schools. It should be
highlighted that health promotion in schools, in any AIDS program, is usually not as effective as one would
hope, independently of the level of resources. This is due to the social, cultural and political complexities
of this type of intervention, as well as the need to reach commitments involving a high number of relevant
actors. Currently, the signature of a new agreement with the Ministry of Education is in progress and the
borrower is committed to continue such activities.
Another important achievement of the project was the implementation and successful operation of an
answering and counseling service through a dedicated telephone line (800 number) available to the general
population. This service is the only permanent prevention tool on a countrywide basis and has been
included to the National AIDS Program in the MOH. The number of daily telephone calls received has
increased continuously since its inception.
There was an apparent lack of political commitment by the MOH authorities at appraisal time regarding
the AIDS prevention communication campaign (evidenced in project files and delay in appraisal), which
became evident during early implementation. Even when most loan proceeds were spent or committed by
early 2001, the project had not implemented yet the prevention communication campaign and the
prevention strategy, which was a key activity of the project. The lack of government commitment was
solved only in late 2001 with changes in government and particularly, with the arrival of new authorities in
the MOH in late 2002. It was this renewed commitment that persuaded management to request successive
extensions to the Closing Date until December 2003.

The LUSIDA Project carried out three large campaigns targeting the general population, apart from the
World AIDS day annual event. The last campaign, finally developed in late 2002 and early 2003, was
based on the promotion of the use of condoms, following Bank recommendations in several missions,
clamor from NGOs and CSOs and their own program. The rating of the last campaign, as measured by the
MORI survey (a specialized survey firm), was 75 percent of target population.

Component B. Prevention of HIV and STD Transmission: Satisfactory

This component had one of the largest impacts over the course of the epidemic. It contributed to reducing
new infections by creating an important network of support within the civil society. A citizen movement
was stimulated and many NGOs and CSOs were created or strengthened by the LUSIDA Project through
subproject financing. The activities supported by the NGOs and CSOs were instrumental in promoting
development of self-esteem and partnership among the most vulnerable, marginal and socially excluded
groups, such as commercial sex workers (CSW), men who have sex with men (MSM) and others. The
LUSIDA Project was very successful in implementing four rounds                   of competitive proposals for
subprojects prioritizing the most vulnerable and high risk segments of the population. More than 116
CSOs and NGOs implemented these projects (significantly more than the initial project target of 50
subprojects). These interventions were designed to achieve greater effectiveness and impact on the
incidence of HIV infections in segments such as intravenous drug users (IDU) and their environment, MSM
and CSW.

Several Bank supervision missions recommended that the project consider developing prevention programs
in the penitentiary environment. This suggestion coincided with the strategy of "Healthy Jails" being
promoted by Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) at the time. After some reluctance by the
penitentiary authorities, the project started a small program that facilitated the development of several small
interventions, basically promoting the use of condoms. However, in the future, it will be necessary to cover
a larger number of prisons, create access to confidential HIV tests, and extensively promote the use of
condoms. The prevention program recently launched in federal penitentiaries is a positive step in this


                                                      - 8 -

direction.

This component also included a program that aimed to reduce vertical transmission (from mother to
newborn). Results show a considerable reduction in the cases of AIDS as well as an increased coverage of
HIV test to pregnant women, as noted above, from 0 at the beginning of the project to 67- 92 percent in all
four areas of the project, well beyond the 50 percent target at appraisal. The ARV prophylaxis coverage
among seropositive pregnant women was more than 90 percent in 2003, achieving a transmission rate of
3.2 percent. It should be noted that it is still possible to improve these results and to achieve lower rates of
vertical transmission, hopefully below 1 percent.            Such a drastic reduction would require close
multisectoral collaboration to ensure wider coverage of prenatal care and, at the same time, improve the
quality of the current services provided.

Blood safety has also reached higher levels of quality. The LUSIDA Project has been instrumental in
achieving these results, working in close collaboration with other agencies and international sponsors.
Coverage of HIV screening for blood donors went from less than 70 percent to nearly 100 percent at the
end of the project.

Component C. Diagnosis, Treatment and Care of HIV Infection and STDs: Satisfactory

Diagnosis of HIV and other STDs improved considerably during the LUSIDA Project. The project
introduced centers for anonymous HIV diagnosis in Argentina. Eighteen centers were established, covering
an important demand coming mainly from populations with high risk of infection (IDU, CSW, people with
STD, MSM and others in risk situations). The original project target for establishing anonymous diagnosis
centers was 10. Still, coverage needs to be expanded even further, especially in areas with high HIV
prevalence that were not the target areas of the project.

The need to train health professionals in the management and treatment of the HIV/AIDS patient was
covered with different programs, executed in the first two years of the project. Simultaneously, health
facilities were adapted for the specific care of HIV infection and its associated pathologies. The project
started a program for remodeling reference hospitals, creating hospital day units capable of covering
relevant pathologies, microbiology laboratories and immunology for the diagnosis of infections, STD and
CD4 and viral load monitoring.        Only 52 percent of the remodeling projects foreseen at appraisal were
executed. The main reasons for the lack of progress were: a) investments carried out by the provincial level
that anticipated some of the originally planned projects; b) difficulties in resolving jurisdictional issues with
provincial governments; and c) delays in execution and shortage of counterpart funds.                 The MOH
requested a reallocation of the remaining loan proceeds in the civil works category to the massive
prevention communication campaign. A loan amendment for this purpose was completed in June 27, 2002.

Component D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research: Satisfactory

The LUSIDA Project made critical contributions to establishing epidemiological surveillance systems in
Argentina. During the early stages of implementation it was understood that the MOH needed good quality
information that would support the definition of adequate strategies for controlling the epidemic. Initially,
emphasis was on the availability of adequate AIDS case identifiers that could be cross-checked with the
mortality registry and other relevant sources. The surveillance system was implemented, although late in
the project life. It is estimated that the AIDS reporting system currently has an under-reporting of about 30
percent.   This is due to a variety of factors, such as difficulties in applying AIDS case definition
countrywide, lack of professional confirmation of diagnosis (physicians and epidemiologist) , gaps in
inter-provincial/national consensus about procedures or quality of data, high reporting delay, and need for


                                                       - 9 -

guidelines for HIV/AIDS epidemiological surveillance, etc.

The HIV surveillance system also has a high level of under-reporting, mainly due to its recent
implementation and rather limited geographical coverage, which has not yet allowed for monitoring HIV
incidence. It is expected that the first reliable information on HIV incidence will be available at the end of
2004. However, one key output of the project is the implementation of a reporting system for new HIV
diagnosed cases. This system started in 2001 and at present, has national coverage allowing the MOH to
be informed when and where new HIV cases are being diagnosed. This information is critical for HIV and
STD prevention planning. The city of Mendoza is a good example of the impact of a complete and
comprehensive HIV reporting system supported by the project. During 2001, it reported an incidence rate
of new HIV diagnoses of 57 per million.

Finally, the project's HIV surveillance system created 218 new sentinel surveillance centers, well above the
target of 20 centers.. HIV sentinel surveillance centers cover a wide range of high, low and variable risk
population groups (IDU, prison inmates, STD patients, pregnant women, MSM, and CSW) throughout the
country. All centers provide valuable periodical information about specific populations. There is still
some room for improving the quality of the surveillance system and its coverage. To achieve this goal, it
would be necessary to staff these centers with a well-trained epidemiologist and provide the necessary
resources to operate and improve them. Lastly, HIV sentinel surveillance should have quality control
related to the characteristics of populations reached and their possible variations over time.

The implementation of behavioral surveillance was only partially successful. Only one KAP survey was
undertaken through monitoring of HIV knowledge covered by phone interviews. Although having only one
KAP did not allow for monitoring the trend, it showed, at least in one measurement, an increase from 60 to
75 percent, in line with appraisal target.

Component E. Project Administration: Satisfactory

In general, although project management was satisfactory, it fluctuated depending on the commitment of
the MOH authorities at each moment of project implementation. During the early years of project
implementation, project management was focused on epidemiological research and surveillance issues with
a significant emphasis on the virological aspects of the epidemic. There was a clear lack of attention to
public education campaigns, in line with the MOH high authorities' commitment at that time. However,
project management continued supporting the participation of NGOs and CSOs, which, as mentioned
above, were able to maintain the demand for public education. From late 2002 until December 2003,
project management played a very important technical and advocacy leadership role in the full
implementation of the key preventive aspects of the project, particularly the prevention campaign.

A critical decision that had to be made at project entry was whether to entrust project implementation to the
line structure of MOH or to create a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the ministry. From the
outset, the borrower had decided that treatment and care would not be included as a project component
since these were already being addressed directly by an ad-hoc department within the MOH, under a
program created in 1992. Consequently, the focus of the project centered on activities to address the
control of the epidemic. The borrower and the Bank decided to establish a PCU that would, during project
implementation, merge with the AIDS treatment unit in the MOH to create the HIV/AIDS unit. There was
an uneven development of both areas during project implementation. The LUSIDA Project, with an
adequate management structure, well trained staff and sufficient resources was well positioned for carrying
out effective interventions for slowing down the progress of the epidemic. The treatment unit of the MOH
limited its activities to the logistics for providing Anti Retroviral Drugs (ARV) and supplies to the public


                                                       - 10 -

sector hospitals and agencies. Moreover, coordination between these two branches within the MOH was
less than optimal and only improved during the last two years of project implementation. At present, the
MOH has integrated both areas under one national program, created with the support of the project team.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For comparability purposes, the ICR replicated the methodology used at appraisal (Human Capital
Approach). An ex-post evaluation estimated the NPV at US$ 1,089 million for a 10 year horizon, noting
the high benefits deriving from a prevention strategy for HIV/AIDS. It is estimated that this intervention
prevented about 42,000 cases of HIV infection, which is equivalent to about 1.5 million years of live saved
(YLS) at a cost of US$ 16 per YLS (see Annex 3). Data available at project end were insufficient to carry
out a further detailed economic analysis of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. Mostly as a result of the project
support, Argentina developed from an HIV/AIDS program exclusively focused on Antiretroviral therapy
for a few AIDS patients in 1998 to a program that fully integrates prevention and treatment both, at the
national and the provincial level. The project emphasis on partnerships with NGOs and CSOs is unique
among all public health programs and has provided the MOH with the opportunity to explore similar
partnerships for other programs. Likewise, the school education and training component, also unique
among public health programs in Argentina, provided an analogous opportunity. Without the project, it is
likely that the implementation of the national program would have been much slower with a more prolonged
exclusive focus on treatment.

Other clear signs of the significant institutional impact include: i) the creation and implementation of the
national HIV surveillance system; ii) the modifications and update of technical norms for prevention and
treatment; and iii) the pivotal role the LUSIDA Project unit and the national program have had in
harnessing Global Fund financing for Argentina.

One of the most important institutional strengthening results of the project was its full integration in the line
ministry. Project management was fully integrated as a new unit in the Ministry and, since late 2002 all
HIV/AIDS activities in the MOH have been integrated, creating a new integrated unit resulting from the
line MoH HIV/AIDS treatment unit and the LUSIDA Project unit. All HIV/AIDS activities since then are
managed from this new integrated unit, mostly financed by national funds. Today, prevention activities are
well integrated into the national program under an institutional scheme that was practically nonexistent
when the project was launched.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The significant level of decentralization determined by the constitutional federal nature of Argentina makes
implementation of any national program very challenging and complex. This project was no exception. The
operational and health policy autonomy of provinces as determined by the federal structure of the country,
led to uneven development of actions across the country. This is an outstanding issue well beyond the
scope of this project. As provinces began to assume administrative responsibilities for implementing
aspects of the project, difficulties arose from political interference in handling sensitive matters, such as
prevention campaigns. It seems that formal agreements between National and the Provincial governments



                                                     - 11 -

were not always effective and that it was necessary to ensure a consensus process between national
government and provincial authorities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As mentioned previously, the severe macroeconomic crisis that affected Argentina in 2001-2002, from
which the country is still recovering, had an impact on project implementation. The crisis negatively
affected the entire Bank portfolio. Changes in authorities and project management in 2002 brought new
leadership and a commitment to the MOH, which significantly improved project development impact.

Another important factor was the availability of counterpart funds. Although project implementation was
not significantly delayed by the lack of funds (other factors played a more important role), it did cause the
difficulties in finishing the facilities improvements (only 52 percent of the projects were implemented).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The most important factor during the first three years of project implementation was the lack of
commitment of the MOH authorities to the communication campaign (Component A). The prevailing
ideology at the highest level of the MOH considerably delayed campaigns for the use of condoms and
activities to reach certain high-risk groups. In addition, also at that time, there was political resistance to
working with NGOs and grassroots organizations, thus delaying the subproject selection process and
activity implementation. These two issues were resolved in late 2001/late 2002.

The organizational structure in the PCU to manage monitoring and evaluation (M&E) became an issue
during implementation. Initially, it was agreed that there would be a special section within the PCU to
manage these activities. It was structured accordingly and started to set up business processes and tools to
monitor project performance indicators, including those designed to control the epidemic. This scheme
worked well for about two years until the person in charge of M&E left the project and was not replaced.
Successive Bank missions insisted on filling this position, but the process dragged on and, eventually, no
one was hired. As an interim measure, monitoring activities were distributed among the rest of the project
organization and operated in this manner until project completion.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$30.0 million, of which the IBRD loan would finance
US$15.0 million and the government would contribute US$15.0 million. At project closing, the total cost
was US$21.98 million with Bank financing of US$14.98 million (68 percent of total cost) and the
Borrower contribution amounted to US$7.0 million (32% of total cost) (see Table 1).




                                                      - 12 -

                     Table 1: Project Financing Appraisal Estimate and Actual Cost

Financing                     Appraisal Estimate            Actual (US$million)         % of Appraisal
                              (US$ million)

IBRD                                     15.0                        14.98                        99.8

Government                               15.0                         7.0                         46.6

TOTAL                                    30.0                        21.98                        73.2

Although project implementation, particularly regarding the prevention and education campaigns, was slow
during the first three years of the project, the loan disbursement pace was accelerated during that time, with
loan proceeds for consultants completely utilized in 2000. This rapid disbursement in the context of low
implementation of some key elements of the project is essentiately explained by loan disbursement in the
presence of low counterpart funds availability. In early 2001, loan proceeds accounted for 92 percent of all
project cumulative expenses. This decreased to 68 percent at the end of the project due to a significant
increase in counterpart funds during 2002 and 2003. Bank response to the 2001-2002 crisis, also
contributed to improve both project implementation in general and availability of counterpart funds. Loan
amendments were approved at the request of the government to implement the communication campaign in
2002-2003 (US$1.2 million was shifted from civil works and goods to consulting services); a small amount
(US$0.4 million) was shifted from civil works to goods to purchase HIV testing kits and a small amount of
ARV during the peak of the crisis in 2002. Peso devaluation in 2001 significantly improved purchasing
capacity of these funds, providing sufficient funding for a full communication campaign.

The lack of counterpart funds from 1998-2001 forced the project management to focus on activities and
modalities that were particularly suitable for Bank financing. As a consequence, LUSIDA was completed
with substantial savings and the total project cost was about two-thirds of the original estimated project
cost.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is considered likely due to several factors.            In early 2002, the
newly-appointed authorities in the MOH decided to merge activities under the project with the National
Program to Fight AIDS, which was dealing mainly with supporting treatment of the disease in the public
sector. Consequently, the HIV/AIDS surveillance, the prevention and the health promotion activities
became unified with the treatment of the disease under a single program and a single manager within the
MOH, who previously led the project. These actions, together with the definition of a national policy to
continue preventing the spread of the disease (DATE of national policy), are considered the cornerstones
for providing sustainability in future activities. Another critical factor is that Argentina now has a sizable
number of health and public health professionals available and adequately trained for preventing and
treating HIV/AIDS. For the future, the availability of adequate human and financial resources, and the
continued political commitment are the main challenges for the sustainability of the program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Argentine HIV/AIDS program is currently well consolidated. Furthermore, the MOH has been
implementing a series of transition arrangements to ensure the continuity of surveillance, prevention,
promotion and care activities. These arrangements are related to: (i) improving coordination within the


                                                      - 13 -

MOH, particularly with maternal and child programs, to improve prevention and early diagnosis of STDs
and distribution of fortified milk to children of infected mothers; (ii) stronger links with provincial
ministries of health to strengthen their capabilities to manage prevention and care programs; (iii) improved
coordination with other federal ministries and agencies, including youth programs under the Ministry of
Social Development, implementing a prevention program within the federal system of prisons, preventive
actions with the federal agency responsible for handling drug abuse and trafficking issues; and (iv)
sponsoring programs in medical academia related to antiretroviral therapy and HIV prevention issues in
perinatal care.

In addition, the MOH has continued to carry out project-related activities under the following lines of
action:

   § Carryingoutmassiveandtargetedpreventioncampaigns,focusedontheuseofcondoms,
        addressing vertical transmission, reducing risks among HIV drug users, strengthening the
        prevention role of civil society organizations in terms of providing condoms, materials and
        financing, and maintaining and promoting the use of the line 800 for providing advice.

   § Improvingthequalityoflifeofpersonslivingwiththediseasethroughprogramstoprovide
        assistance in covering the cost of treatment and making available support for actions addressing
        social acceptability issues.

   § StrengtheningepidemiologicalsurveillancebyintegratingtheHIV/AIDSmorbidityandmortality
        surveillance, which uses the sentinel posts created under the project, with the national
        Epidemiological Surveillance System.

   § Strengtheningprovincialprogramstoenhancetheircapabilitiestomanagepreventiveandcare
        services provided in a decentralized manner.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in preparing the project was satisfactory. In the opinion of the borrower, the
assistance provided by the Bank team during preparation and appraisal was very helpful to define the
project scope and components. In several interviews, the borrower expressed appreciation for the expertise
and technical assistance provided by the Bank. The borrower acknowledged that the Bank's role was
instrumental in overcoming reservations in the MOH leadership about the use of condoms as an effective
preventive mechanism and the active participation of NGOs and CSOs representing high-risk groups.
Project processing was delayed for about four months until this issue was resolved.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. The Bank carried out regular supervision missions
supplemented by visits from specialists and provided oversight of project implementation and fiduciary
aspects. There were four Task Team Leader changes during project implementation. The first change
occurred when the original Task Leader was reassigned to another region in 2000; a third Task Team
Leader was appointed in 2002; and the last one was appointed in July 2003. These transitions were
generally smooth, but it should be noted that they also implied changes in specialized consultants involved
in supervising the project. The borrower emphasized the Bank's rapid and adequate responsiveness during
the peak of the socioeconomic crisis. In early 2002, the project was virtually completed and the Bank acted
promptly to reallocate available financing to the supply the HIV diagnosis kits for the project's activities


                                                     - 14 -

for prevention of vertical transmission.

Aside from the generally good opinion about the Bank's technical expertise provided during project
implementation, the borrower pointed out one specific issue in which the Bank could have improved its
performance, specifically related to the frequent changes in Bank staff and consultants participating in
supervision missions. In the opinion of the borrower, these changes implied several redefinitions of
emphasis and priority areas for the project, particularly related to the activities targeting the various
vulnerable groups involved in the program. In addition, the borrower was left with the impression that
missions too often based their judgments and advice on their own experience in different countries without
taking into account the socioeconomic and legal framework prevailing in Argentina.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank's team, according to the borrower, added
value during project preparation and assisted in the design process of key project components. The Bank
also contributed to helping the government implement a badly-needed program to prevent the evolution of
the epidemics in Argentina.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The borrower was able to create a technical
team that quickly focused on designing key components. The local team had to overcome deficiencies in
available information on the epidemics and assumptions had to be made based on the assistance provided
by the Bank's team drawing from its experience in other countries. Overall, the team was high quality and
worked very effectively.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance during implementation was satisfactory. Although there were significant
shortcomings in the provision of counterpart funds during the first two years, the last two administrations
made a significant effort to reverse the situation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall the MOH's performance during implementation was satisfactory. The problem of the MOH
commitment to the AIDS prevention communication campaign was solved in late 2002, with changes in
governments and particularly, with the arrival of the current authorities in the MOH in late 2002. It was
this renewed commitment that persuaded management to extend project closing dates until December 2003.
Project implementation during these extension significantly improved overall project development objective
performance as discussed in previous sections.

Towards its completion, LUSIDA managed to achieve an overall positive balance even at times when
Argentina was undergoing the most severe social, political and economic crisis in its recent history. The
project established a number of new activities that are crucial for the control of the epidemics. In
particular, the project was very successful in reducing vertical transmission and establishing a number of
sentinel surveillance centers.

Financial management of the project was satisfactory in general, including submission of auditing reports,
with disruptions during the crisis in late 2001 and early 2002. The staffing of the Project Management
Unit was adequate with the exception of the monitoring specialist. Although significant staffing changes
occurred in 2002, such changes resulted in a revitalized unit and better project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                    - 15 -

Overall, borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. There were some shortcomings during early
implementation, which had to be refocused at mid-term.            However, by completion, the development
objectives had been achieved and the borrower prepared a sound sustainability plan with strong support at
the political level.

8. Lessons Learned

There are at least five key lessons to be derived from the design and implementation of the LUSIDA
project:

(a)      Ensuring up-front political support and commitment for important, and often politically difficult,
         HIV/AIDS policy changes is crucial to effectively address the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
(b)      Involving NGOs during project preparation is necessary to ensure buy-in from civil society as main
         actors in project implementation and to ensure accountability of policy makers in HIV/AIDS
         prevention policy;
(c)      Reaching clear agreements and setting effective monitoring of counterpart funds during project
         preparation is essential to ensure they will be available during project implementation;
(d)      Early and effective integration of project activities to the mainstream implementing agency
         responsibilities and organization is essential to ensure project sustainability;
(e)      Ensuring ownership and commitment by decentralized agencies and local governments, who have
         the ultimate responsibility for implementing policy and project activities, is essential for achieving
         both, Development and Implementation objectives.

(a). Ensuring up-front political support and commitment for important, and often politically difficult,
HIV/AIDS policy changes is crucial to effectively address the HIV/AIDS epidemic.                        Project
preparation files suggest that there was lack of political commitment by the Ministry of Health authorities
at appraisal time regarding the AIDS prevention communication campaign (Component 1). This was
demonstrated by the length of time it took the MoH to send the policy letter with clear commitments
regarding the communication campaign. The subsequent delays in the implementation of the
communication campaign underlines the need for ensuring political commitment up-front. The Bank team
did all it could to ensure Government commitment including taking sufficient time for the necessary policy
dialog with the MoH, as shown by the delay of appraisal, and requesting a well though policy letter with
explicit commitments in it. Unfortunately this did not prevent the delay for that component. However, in
retrospect, the inclusion of the communication campaign and the NGOs/CSOs provided sufficient
"resilience" from key actors for a later successful implementation of the component.              The lack of
government commitment with that component was solved only since late 2001 with changes of governments
and particularly with the arrival to the National Ministry of Health of the current authorities who took
office in late 2002. It was this renewed commitment that persuaded management to extend project closing
dates until December 2003. Project implementation during these extensions significantly improved overall
project development objective performance.

(b). Involving NGOs during project preparation is necessary to ensure buy-in from civil society as
main actors in project implementation and to ensure accountability of policy makers in HIV/AIDS
prevention policy. The role of NGOs and CSOs, a key design feature of the project, was fundamental.
First, they brought into project preparation and implementation essential knowledge of local realities and
needs ensuring ownership of the project particularly by populations at risk. Second, some of them also had
state of the art technical expertise that significantly enriched project strategy design. Third, and most
importantly, the active presence of NGOs and CSOs during preparation and particularly during the first
2-3 years of project implementation, maintained the pressure and the debate regarding the need for



                                                      - 16 -

implementing the massive prevention communication campaign.

(c). Reaching clear agreements and setting effective monitoring of counterpart funds during project
preparation is essential to ensure they will be available during project implementation. Lack of
counterpart fund during the first 2-3 years of project implementation was a clear problem. Although
project preparation included an in depth cost analysis, it was not able to ensure actual contribution of
counterpart funds. This was later on improved after mid-term review.

(d). Early and effective integration of project activities to the mainstream implementing agency
responsibilities and organization is essential to ensure project sustainability. The current HIV/AIDS
program at the National Ministry of Health in Argentina is a fully integrated and dynamic program which
has been able to significantly change AIDS prevention and treatment policy in the country. A significant
part of its accomplishments is due to the key decision of fully integrating the program as a line unit in 2002
together with all other related programs. This emphasizes the importance of appropriate full integration
of the program to line ministerial units. However, the timing of the integration in the LUSIDA case was
essential. Full integration during the first years of the program might well have meant loosing a force for
change in the effort to introduce the communication campaign. The separation of the program at that time
allowed for the vital collaboration with NGOs and CSOs and the pressure for a prevention debate in the
country.

(e). Ensuring ownership and commitment by decentralized agencies and local governments, who have
the ultimate responsibility for implementing policy and project activities, is essential for achieving
both, Development and Implementation objectives. This is particularly essential for federal countries
such as Argentina, Mexico and Brazil in LAC, which have affectively decentralized most of the health care
delivery responsibility to the provincial and state level. In the case of Argentina the project achieved a very
good level of coordination and ownership on the policy and strategy side with the provinces. However, it
faced significant challenges for the investment components.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower, through the Implementing Agency (the National Ministry of Health), provided substantial
comments, data and feedback during the preparation of this ICR, most of which were included in the report.
Formal final comments from the Implementing Agency on behalf of the Borrower were received on June 3,
2004. Copy of the comments are included as annex 8. The Borrower agrees with the findings of the ICR,
mainly that the project had a difficult start but that it had a significant impact on the National and
Provincial strategy     for prevention and treatment of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, as well as a key role in
facilitating the development of Government-NGO partnership and collaboration.               The Borrower also
acknowledges the need to further strengthen key components of the strategy: a) further reaching populations
at risk (e.g. jail populations); and b) extend the project activities beyond the target project areas.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.

10. Additional Information

ICR Team:
Cristian C. Baeza, ICR Task Team Leader



                                                      - 17 -

Luis O. Pérez, Sr. Public Health Specialist
Jorge C. Barrientos, Consultant
Isabel Noguer, Consultant
Natalia Moncada, Program Assistant

Comments received from:
Jesko Hentschel, Sector Leader
Susana N. de Campos Abbott, Lead Operations Officer
Evangeline Javier, Sector Manager, LCSHH




                                              - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Modified in Mid-Term Review: Reduction in     Reduce prevalence one or two population     Prevalence among Blood donors reduced by
growth rate of HIV/AIDS prevalence in one or subgroups (army recruits or blood donors) by 23% (from 0.22% to 0.17%).
two population subgroups.                     5%.
Original PAD: Reduced growth rate in the      Reduce incidence among blood donors from N/A.
incidence of HIV infection.                   0.19%.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase the proportion of correct answers in Increased from 60 to 75% by 2001            75% (2001)
KAP surveys: Knowledge on HIV prevention.
Ratings of mass communication campaigns:      No target                                   75% (based on Mori's survey)
(i) Open TV, (ii) Radio
Proportion of Schools w/trained teachers and From 0% to 40%                               Buenos Aires: 93%
educational materials:                                                                    Cordoba:      98%
                                                                                          Santa Fe:      91%
Number of CSOs carrying out prevention        From 0 to 50                                116
subprojects
Proportion of Blood Units tested for HIV      From 68% to 100%                            99%
Proportion of pregnant women tested for HIV From 0 to 50%                                 City of Buenos Aires: 92%
                                                                                          Province of Buenos Aires: 67%
                                                                                          Santa Fe: 91%
                                                                                          Cordoba: 72%
Proportion of HIV+ pregnant women that        From 50 to 75%                              92%
received Antiretroviral therapy
Number of new HIV/ AIDS anonymous             From 0 to more than 10                      18
diagnostic centers:
Number of new active sentinel HIV             From 0 to more than 10                      218

Pregnant women                                                                            164
Prisoners                                                                                 15
IDU                                                                                       2
STD                                                                                       30
CSOs                                                                                      4
MSM                                                                                       2
Armed forces                                                                              1
Total                                                                                     218

1End of project




                                                               - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2(a): Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                          Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                    Component                            US$ million       US$ million
A. Health Promotion                                          12.50            8.86          71
B. Prevention of HIV and STD Transmission                    7.30             6.42          87
C. Diagnosis, Treatment and Care of HIV infection            6.50             2.36          36
and STDs
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research                       1.70             0.47          28
E. Project Administration                                    2.00             2.04         102

Reallocations for Communications Campaign and                                 1.83
Diagnosis Kits


Total Baseline Cost                                          30.00           21.95

Total Project Costs                                          30.00           21.95

Total Financing Required                                     30.00           21.98


Annex 2(b): Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure         ICB                  Procurement         Method          N.B.F.
Category                                NCB                  Other 1/        2/          Total Cost 3/
1. Civil Works                                 2.50                0.50                     3.0
                                              (1.50)                                      (1.50)
2. Goods
  Equipment and            2.00                1.50                0.50                    4.0
  Supplies                (1.00)              (0.50)              (0.25)                  (1.75)

  Pharmaceuticals                                                 1.00/a                   1.00
  & Medical                                                      (0.75)/a                 (0.75)
  Supplies
3. Services
   Consulting                                                      20.0                     20.0
                                                                  (10.0)                   (10.0)
  Administrative                                                   2.00                     2.00
                                                                  (1.00)                   (1.00)
Total                                           2.0                4.0          24.0        30.0
                                              (1.00)              (2.00)      (12.00)     (15.00)
1- Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 2(c): Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US $ million
equivalent)

Expenditure Category      ICB       Procurement      Method          N.B.F. 2/    Total Cost 3/
                                    NCB              Other 1/
1. Civil Works                      0.96             0.25                         1.2
                                    (0.51)           (0.0)                        (0.51)
2. Goods Equipment and 0.00         0.00             0.08                         0.08
Supplies                  (0.00)    (0.00)           (0.04)                       (0.04)


Pharmaceuticals &                                    1.83                         1.83
Medicals Supplies                                    (1.83)                       (1.83)

3.      3. Services                                  16.79                        16.79
Consulting                                           (11.64)                      (11.64)
4. Administrative                                    2.04                         2.04
                                                     (0.966)                      (0.966)
Total                               0.96             20.99           0.0          21.95
                                    (0.51)           (14.476)        (0.00)       (14.986)




                                               - 21 -

Annex 2(d). Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                     Percentage of
Component              Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate         Appraisal
                       Bank      Govt.     Total      Bank        Govt.    Total     Bank    Govt.  Total
A. Health Promotion                              12.5       6.04       2.82      8.86               71%
B. Prevention of                                   7.3      4.55       1.87      6.42               87.9%
STD Transmission
C. Diagnosis,                                      6.5      1.15       1.18      2.33               36%
Treatment and Care
D. Monitoring                                      1.7      0.45       0.02      0.47               28%
Evaluation and
Research
E. Project Admin.                                  2.0      0.96       1.08      2.04               102%
Emergency Supplies                                          1.83                1.83*
   TOTAL Project 15.0            15.0            30.0      14.98       6.98     21.95               73%
              Costs
* Not included at Appraisal
  Note that there is no data available for Appraisal Estimate for Bank and Govt.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

   3.1 Economic Analysis

An ex-ante economic benefits analysis was carried out during project appraisal that estimated that the net
present value (NPV) of the benefits exceeded US$ 360 million. Also an Internal Economic Rate of Return
(IRR) was estimated at 67 percent.

Using a similar methodology (Human Capital Approach), an ex post evaluation estimated the NPV at US$
1,089 million, highlighting the high benefits from a prevention strategy for HIV/AIDS. It is estimated that
this intervention prevented about 42,000 cases of HIV infection, which is equivalent to about 1.5 million
years of life (YLS) saved at a cost de US$ 16 per YLS. The estimated costs and benefits are shown in the
following table.

                                   Table 1: Costs and Estimated Benefits
                                             (US$ million, 2003)

              Year                     Benefits                    Costs                      NPV
                                         (PV)
   1997                                   0                         1,6                       -1.6
   1998                                  69,7                       4,0                       65.7
   1999                                  112,8                      8,9                      104.0
   2000                                  134,7                      3,2                      131.5
   2001                                  138,9                      3,2                      135.7
   2002                                  129,4                      0,5                      129.0
   2003                                  135,8                      0,6                      135.1
   2004                                  134,9                      0,7                      134.2
   2005                                  131,4                      0,7                      130.8
   2006                                  126,1                      0,6                      125.5
   Total                               1.113,8                     24,0                     1.089.8
   Basic assumptions
   HIV infection prevented                                                        42.186
   Year of live saved                                                             1.476.523
   Cost per HIV infection                                                         569
   prevented (US$)
   Cost per YLS (US$)                                                             16

The economic analysis is based on a stream of benefits and costs estimated over a ten-year period. The
main assumptions include: (i) 42,000 cases of HIV infection prevented with the project; (ii) an average of
35 healthy years saved per case ­ representing 30 additional years of active productive life; (iii) a discount
rate of ten percent; and (iv) an average annual income of US$ 5,700 for the period 1997-2003 and of US$
2,300 starting in 2004.

   3.2. Fiscal Impact Analysis

The following table shows the project's annual costs and the budget for the National HIV/AIDS and STD
Program over the period 1997-2003. The table also compares these expenditures with the MOH budget
and total expenditures in health services provided by the federal government. It can be seen that LUSIDA


                                                    - 23 -

represented only about 0.5 percent of the MOH budget and, on average, about 5 percent of the National
HIV/AIDS Program. Only in 1999, it reached 1 percent.

                                          Table 2: Fiscal Impact
                                           (US$ million, 2003)

    Fiscal Impact



                                               1997     1998   1999   2000    2001     2002    2003
  Project Cost (LUSIDA)                            1.6     4.0   8.9     3.2      3.2     0.5     0.6
  National AIDS/STD Program                       53.1    60.7  77.1    56.6    53.2     24.0    45.3
  Ministry of Health Expenditure              s/d        634,0 612,3 516,9 450,0 239,3
                                                                                                335,7
  Federal Public Health Expenditure             720.0 823.0 875.0 805.0 750.0 284.1 366.8
  % Project Cost / Federal Public Health      0.23% 0.49% 1.01% 0.40% 0.43% 0.16% 0.18%
  % Project Cost/National AIDS/STD             3.1%     6.6% 11.5% 5.7%       6.0%    1.9%     1.4%
  Program
            Source: Integrated Financial Information System, Ministry of Finance




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/17/1996                3    TM (1); CONSULTANTS (2)
              10/25/1996                4    TM (1); CONSULTANTS (4)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/10/1997                4    TM (1); CONSULTANTS
                                             (3); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              03/21/1998                5    SECTOR LEADER/TM (1); PH         S               S
                                             SPECIALIST/HLTH SER (1);
                                             PH SPECIALIST/PREVENTI
                                             (1); PH
                                             SPECIALIST/PROMOTIO (1);
                                             SENIOR ECONOMIST (1)
              07/10/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1); PUB.           S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              10/23/1998                5    SECTOR LEADER/TTL (1);           HS             HS
                                             PUB. HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (2); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              05/04/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PUB. HEALTH SPEC. (3)
              12/07/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SIDALAC CONSULTANT (1);
                                             AIDS CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              09/25/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PUBLIC HLTH SPEC. (1)
              05/04/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PUBLIC HLTH SPEC. (1)
              04/02/2002                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1)
              12/06/2002                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/01/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT

 ICR
              02/14/2004                2     TASK TEAM LEADER                S               S




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              2.0                           8.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 10.2                           38.7
  Supervision                          46.57                         194.9
  ICR                                     4.9                          16.0
  Total                                63.67                         257.8




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  AIDS and STD Control Project (LUSIDA). Project Appraisal Document. May 1997.

 2. AIDS and STD Control Project (LUSIDA). Mid-Term Review Mission Report. April 2000.

3.  Informe de Cierre. Proyecto de Control de Sida y ETS (LUSIDA). Ministerio de Salud. Febrero
    2004.

4.  Boletín sobre el SIDA en la Argentina. Ministerio de Salud ­ Programa Nacional de Lucha contra
    los Retrovirus del Humano, SIDA y ETS. Año X. Número 22. Octubre 2003.

5.  Documento Legal del Acuerdo de Crédito para el Proyecto LUSIDA.

6.  Project Appraisal Document (PAD), for an AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control
    Project, (LUSIDA).

7.  Ayudas Memorias de 1998 a 2002.

8.  Informe de Evaluación de Medio Término.

9.  Situación de Salud en Argentina, 2003. Documento elaborado por el Ministerio de Salud, con apoyo
    de OPS/OMS.

10. Informe Final de la Evaluación e Impacto sobre beneficiarios de la IV Convocatoria a proyectos
    apoyados por el Fondo de Asistencia a OSC. Lic. Graciela Biagni y equipo. Enero de 2003.

11. Informe de la Evaluación e Impacto de una muestra de beneficiarios del Fondo de Asistencia a OSC.,
    en una muestra de proyectos. Lic. Silvia Necchi y asociados. 16 de Enero de 2001.

12. Informe Final de Infraestructura, elaborado por el equipo de Infraestructura de UFI-S.

13. Informe final de Campaña Masiva de Prevención. Estudio de evaluación e impacto final de
    Campaña. Elab. Equipo técnico de LUSIDA.

14. Informe de Distribución de materiales de Comunicación desde Noviembre de 2002.

15. Informe oficial de prensa del Ministerio.

16. Anexo de Actividades desarrolladas por el Componente de Educación. Elab. por equipo LUSIDA.

17. Anexo de Actividades desarrolladas por el Componente de Prevención del VIH/SIDA y ETS ­ Fondo
    de asistencia para OSC's. Elab. por equipo LUSIDA. Junio 2002.

18. Anexo de Actividades desarrolladas por el Componente de Promoción de la salud, Educación. Elab.
    por equipo LUSIDA.

19. Informe de Campaña de Comunicación Focalizada II etapa ­ 2001 a 2003.Elab. por equipo
    LUSIDA.


                                                - 29 -

20. Anexo de Actividades desarrolladas por el Componente Promoción de la salud. Elab. por equipo
    LUSIDA.

21. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Marzo 1994. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

22. Casos de SIDA en el sexo femenino. Abril 1994. Ministerio de Salud, LUSIDA.

23. Informe sobre la situación de los casos de SIDA. Abril 1994.

24. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Noviembre 1994. Ministerio de Salud y Acción
    Social, LUSIDA.

25. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Marzo 1995. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

26. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la Republica Argentina, Julio 1995. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

27. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Noviembre 1995. Ministerio de Salud y Acción
    Social, LUSIDA.

28. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Marzo 1996. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

29. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Noviembre 1996. Ministerio de Salud y Acción
    Social, LUSIDA.

30. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Marzo 1997. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

31. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Diciembre 1997. Ministerio de Salud y Acción
    Social, LUSIDA.

32. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la Republica Argentina, Marzo 1998. Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social,
    LUSIDA.

33. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, año V, Julio 1998. Ministerio de Salud y Acción
    Social, LUSIDA.

34. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, año V, Número 15, diciembre 1998. Ministerio de
    Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.

35. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Año VI, Número 16, Marzo 1999. Ministerio de
    Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.

36. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Año VI, Número 17, Julio de 1999. Ministerio de
    Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.


                                                 - 30 -

37. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, año VII, Número 19, septiembre 2000. Ministerio
    de Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.

38. El SIDA en la Argentina, su evolución de 1982 al 2000, (informe), LUSIDA.

39. El SIDA en la Argentina, la situación entre 1982 y 2000. La transmisión madre-hijo, (informe),
    LUSIDA.

40. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Año VIII, Número 20, Junio 2001. Ministerio de
    Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.

41. El SIDA en la Argentina, situación al 30 de septiembre de 2001. VIH ­ SIDA en mayores de 50
    años, (informe), LUSIDA.

42. Boletín Sobre el SIDA en la República Argentina, Año IX, Número 21, Agosto de 2002. Ministerio
    de Salud y Acción Social, LUSIDA.

43. Anexo Otras Actividades del Proyecto LUSIDA: Proyecto "Cárceles Saludables", Programa
    Nacional "Médicos de Cabecera". LUSIDA.

44. Informe de Línea 0800 "pregunte SIDA". Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, LUSIDA.

45. Anexo Sustentabilidad del Proyecto LUSIDA, Ministerio de Salud de la Nación.

46. Vigilancia Epidemiológica del VIH ­ SIDA en la República Argentina. Ministerio de Salud de la
    Nación, LUSIDA.

47. Presentación gráfica del Proyecto del Fondo Global de SIDA en la Argentina. Dra. Gabriela
    Hamilton.

48. Presentación gráfica de Actividades realizadas por LUSIDA en el área médica.




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution




                                         - 32 -

- 33 -

