Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4168-AR
Loan Agreement
(AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control Project - LUSIDA)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4168-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated October 10, 1996 from the Borrower 
describing the Borrower’s policy in the health sector; 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) 
at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
than an 
Page  2
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
Account, or (f) the 
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor 
pursuant to Section 
6.07 With respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
(b)
"AIDS/STD Program" means the program established by Ministerial 
Resolution No. 18, dated January 20, 1992, of the Ministry of health (as hereinafter 
defined);
(c)
"Annual Operational Plans" means the detailed operational plans for the 
execution of the Project referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement as approved 
by the Bank;
(d)
 "HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus;
(e)
"General Coordinator" means the coordinator for all projects within the 
Ministry of Health (as hereinafter defined) financed by international financing 
institutions;
(f)
"Ministry of Education" means the Borrower’s Ministerio de Cultura y 
Educación;
(g)
"Ministry of Health" means the Borrower’s Ministerio de Salud y Acción 
Social;
(h)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the progress and performance indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(i)
Municipalities" means municipalities in the Participating Provinces (as 
hereinafter defined);
(j)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Participating Provinces" means the following provinces within the 
territory of the Borrower:  Buenos Aires, Córdoba, and Santa Fe, and such other 
provinces as may be added in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(m)
"Project Coordination Unit" means the unit established pursuant to 
Resolution No. 110, dated February 21, 1996, of the Secretary for health Programs of 
the Ministry of health for the day-to-day management and coordination of the Project;
(n)
"Project Coordinator" means the head of the Project Coordination Unit;
 
(o)
"Provincial Ministries of Education" means the Ministerio or Secretaría 
de Educación (or similar department or agency) of the Participating Provinces;
Page  3
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"STD" means sexually transmitted disease; and
(r)
"Subproject" means an activity, program or project set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the Borrower for inclusion in the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Page  4
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on June 15 and 
December  15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, medical and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
provide effective coordination of the Project through a steering 
committee that includes the Secretary for Health Programs of the 
Ministry of Health, the Director of the AIDS/STD Program, the 
General Coordinator, and the Project Coordinator; and
(ii)
periodically convene a high-level advisory board, with composition 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist in 
building consensus within civil society and ensuring its 
participation in the Project.
(b)
Parts A (1), B, C, D and E of the Project shall be carried out by the 
Ministry of Health. Part A (2) of the Project shall be carried out by the Ministry of 
Education and the Provincial Ministries of Education pursuant to an agreement between 
said entities and the Ministry of Health, said agreement to be acceptable to the Bank. 
The Borrower shall not request any withdrawals from the Loan Account on account of 
expenditures under Part A (2) of the Project until after said agreement has been 
concluded and approved by the Bank.
(c)
For the purpose of assisting the Ministry of Health in the carrying out 
of Parts A (1), B, C, D and E of the Project and assisting the Ministry of Education 
and the Provincial Ministries of Education  in the carrying out of Part A (2) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of the Project within 
the Ministry of Health the Project Coordination Unit with functions and 
Page  5
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with managers with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
the Project is carried out in accordance with: (i) an operational manual 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) Annual Operational Plans;
(b)
by November 15 of each year of Project execution, the Project 
Coordination Unit submits a  detailed draft operational plan for the following year to 
the Bank for its approval;
(c)
on a regular basis, and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
a representative sampling of Subprojects is subjected to financial and management 
reviews and to ex-post economic and beneficiary evaluations by independent 
consultants; and
(d)
a copy of the consultants’ reports on the reviews and evaluations 
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section is promptly forwarded to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the Project Coordination Unit, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by March 1 and September 1 of each year of Project execution, furnish to 
the Bank a semi-annual progress report on the execution of the Project, said reports 
to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and to 
include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
include in the progress report to be furnished to the Bank by September 
30, 1999 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank may request, the progress report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and of the Participating Provinces responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operational Manual shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the efficient execution of the Project or the 
attainment of its objectives.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Ministry of Health and is 
in effect; and
(b)
all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed with Loan proceeds be 
undertaken in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date December 23, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Page  7
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI); or
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Humberto Amalio Petrei
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
HONORARY WITNESS
  FOR ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Alberto José Mazza
Minister of Health and Social Action
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  1,350,000
50%
(2)
Goods 
  2,250,000
100% of foreign
Page  8
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consulting services 9,000,000
100%
(4)
Project
    900,000
100% of EI 
Administration
in Project 
Year 1; 75% 
of EI in
Project Year 2; 
50% of EI
in Project
Year 3; 25% 
of EI in
Project Year 4
5)
Unallocated
  1,500,000
TOTAL
       15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "EI" means expenditures incurred;
(b)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(d)
the term "Project Administration" means the reasonable cost of rents, 
utilities, salaries, per diem and travel expenses of fixed-term staff of the Project 
Coordination Unit, office equipment and supplies, and communications equipment and 
services incurred for the administration of the Project; and 
(e)
the term "Project Year 1" means the period October 1, 1997 through 
September 30, 1998; the term "Project Year 2" means the period October 1, 1998 through 
September 30, 1999; the term "Project Year 3" means the period October 1, 1999 through 
September 30, 2000; and the term "Project Year 4" means the period October 1, 2000 
through June 30, 2001.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to 
the date of this Agreement but after February 15, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:
(a) 
works costing less than $500,000 equivalent;
(b)
goods costing less than $300,000 equivalent;
(c)
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce the rate of growth of the incidence 
of HIV infection, to improve the quality and efficiency of care provided to AIDS 
patients, and to reduce social discrimination against HIV and AIDS patients.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
Health Promotion
Carrying out of Subprojects in the Participating Provinces and the City of 
Buenos Aires to increase the knowledge of the population about the transmission and 
prevention of HIV/AIDS and STDs and to reduce the social discrimination against 
HIV/AIDS patients, including: 
(1)
design, production, distribution, and diffusion of mass- and targeted 
communication campaigns; and 
(2)
education on HIV/AIDS in primary and secondary schools, including the 
development of educational materials for teachers, parents and students, the training 
of teachers, and the preparation and execution of school-based participatory 
activities.
Part B: 
Prevention of HIV and STD Transmission
Carrying out of Subprojects, selected on a competitive basis, in the 
Participating Provinces and the City of Buenos Aires to reduce the spread of HIV and 
STDs through increasing the proportion of the population at high risk that adopts 
preventive measures, to reduce the transmission of HIV through transfusion of blood 
and other biological products, and to reduce the mother-child transmission of HIV and 
syphilis, including: 
(1)
prevention activities for specified high-risk focus groups organized by 
NGOs and other elements of civil society (e.g. church groups, local community groups, 
companies or trade unions);
(2)
improved blood quality control through equipping and training of staff in 
blood banks where the quality of blood is not yet fully ensured; and
(3)
review and, if necessary, revision of routine prenatal care standards to 
include the diagnosis and treatment of HIV in pregnant women; introduction by the 
Participating Provinces, Municipalities or other entities that provide medical care to 
people without insurance coverage, of the diagnosis and treatment of HIV in pregnant 
women as part of the standard prenatal care package; and review of and, if necessary, 
preparation of draft amendments to, legislation to include diagnosis and treatment of 
HIV in pregnant women in the package of essential services to be covered by government 
health services, by the social insurance system and by pre-paid health services.
Part C:
Diagnosis, Treatment and Care of HIV infection and STDs
Carrying out of Subprojects, selected on a competitive basis, in the 
Participating Provinces and the City of Buenos Aires to improve the quality and 
efficiency of the diagnosis, treatment, counseling and care provided for HIV and STDs 
by reducing the number of hospital admissions per patient and the average length of 
hospital stay, including:
(1)
establishment by Participating Provinces, Municipalities or other 
entities that provide medical care to people without insurance coverage, of anonymous 
diagnostic centers, and as deemed necessary by the Borrower, care centers for HIV/AIDS 
orphans, and hospice care;
(2)
establishment or improvement by hospitals or ambulatory health networks, 
of laboratories, day care services, home care services, and STD diagnosis and 
treatment services; and
(3)
training of physicians and other health care personnel in the diagnosis, 
treatment, counseling and care of HIV/AIDS and STD patients.
Part D:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Research
Carrying out of studies and provision of technical assistance and training to 
improve information on AIDS and STDs, to monitor Project performance, and to advance 
knowledge on AIDS and STDs, including:
(1)
establishment of an HIV and STD surveillance system;
(2)
updating and maintenance of equipment and software and training of staff 
of the Ministry of Health, the provincial Ministries of health and the Municipalities 
in the operation of the HIV/AIDS management information system;
Page  10
(3)
training of physicians and other health personnel in the preparation of  
death certificates and hospital discharge summaries and statistics, using AIDS and 
STDs as tracer conditions;
(4)
periodic surveying of HIV/STD related knowledge, attitudes and practices 
among the Borrower’s population;
(5)
ex-post evaluation and financial and management reviews of sample 
Subprojects; and
(6)
competitively selected research and development studies on AIDS/STD 
presented by universities or other research institutions, covering the 
epidemiological, sociological, behavioral, and economic aspects of HIV and STD 
infection.
Part E:
Project Administration
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit through the 
provision of specialized technical assistance and staff and the acquisition and use of 
appropriate office space, equipment and communications services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
      (expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2002
through June 15, 20012
750,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
Page  11
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost more than $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies estimated to cost more than $300,000 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, and pharmaceuticals and medical supplies which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, and works 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract or per bid package, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 
C.2, standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  12
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B and C.1 of this 
Section; and (b) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods and the first two 
contracts or bid packages for works procured under Part C.2 of this Section; and (c) 
all contracts for works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $1,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  13
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
