Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4972a-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINIDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIFS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 24, 1984
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution sad  My be wsed by recipients oly in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not oderwise be dislosed withot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.365        =  US$ 1.00  1/
JD 1.00         =  US$ 2.74
JD 1.00         =  1,000 fils
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                          =  0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)                  =  0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                            =  2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                         =  0.03937 inches
Centimeter (cm)                         =  0.3937 inches
Meter (m)                               =  39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                        =  264 US Gallons
Cubic Meters per second (m3/sec)        =  22,800 US Gallons per day
Liter (1)                               =  0.264 US Gallons
Liters per second (1/sec)               =  22,800 US Gallons per day
Liters per capita per day (lcd)         =  0.264 US Gallons per capita
per day
Milligram per liter (mg/l)              =  1.0 part per million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWSA    = Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
EGMC    =  East Ghor Main Canal
GOJ     =  Government of Jordan
JVA     =  Jordan Valley Authority
KfW     =  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LRAIC   =  Long Run Average Incremental Cost
NPC     =  National Planning Council
NRA     =  Natural Resources Authority
USAID   =  United States Agency for International Development
WA      =  Water Authority
WSC     =  Water Supply Corporation
ABBREVIATIONS
ft       =  foot                                  min      =  minute
lcd      =  liters per capita per day             ppm      =  part per million
m        =  meter                                  sec     =  second
In3      =  cubic meters                           kg      =  kilogram
mm       =  millimeter                             gm      =  gram
km       =  kilometer                              kw      =  kilowatt
MCM      =  million cubic meters                   kwh     =  kilowatt-hour
BODs     =  five day biochemical oxygen demand
GOJ'S AND WA'S FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
I/ as of December 5, 1983



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOR OMlCIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                    ..                     i-ii
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTORS ......................          1
Water Resources ............................................           1
Water Supply ...............................................           2
Sewerage ...................................................          2
Sector Organization                      ..                           3
IDA/Bank Role in Water Supply and Sewerage           .      .         3
II.         PROJECT AREA ............................................... S
General Features ...........................................          5
Existing Water Supply Systems                 ..                      6
Sources of Water Supply                    ..                          7
Existing Wastewater Disposal System         .............              7
Population .................................................           8
Water Demands ..............................................           8
Sewage Flows and Organic Loads                 ..                      9
III.       THE PROPOSED PROJECT .......................................            10
Project Objectives                       ..                            10
Project Description ........................................           10
Project Elements ...........................................           10
Cost Estimates             .......................   11
Project Financing Plan                     ..                          13
Status of Engineering                     ..                           14
Procurement ................................................           14
Disbursements ..............................................           15
Project Implementation                     ..                          16
Land Acquisition and Access                   ..                       16
Monitoring Criteria                      ..                            16
IV.        THE BENEFICIARY ............................................            18
Introduction             ..8......................    i
Organization and Management                   ..                       18
Institutional Development                   ..                         19
Staffing ...................................................           20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Jordan in
November/December,  1983.   Mission  members  included  John  W.  Huang,  Arun
Banerjee and Xavier Legrain.
.This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
IV. (cant.)
Training ...................................................    20
Billing and Collection                      ..                        21
Accounting .................................................    21
Audit ......................................................    21
Insurance ..................................................    22
V.          FINANCE ....................................................    23
Past Performance and Present Position               ...    23
Tariff-Cost Recovery ......................................            23
The WA's Sources and Applications of Funds             . . .          24
Future Financial Performance                   . . .    25
VI.         ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS ................................    26
Health Benefits and Environmental Impact . . .................    26
Least-Cost Solution                       . . .    26
Economic Efficiency of Sector Investments             . . .            26
Affordability ..............................................    27
Institution Building                      . . .    27
Risks ..................................................... .          27
VII.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................    29
ANNEXES
1 Population Projections .30
2  Estimated Household Sizes and Household Incomes .31
3  Details of Existing Water Distribution Systems .32
4 Projected Water Production                  . . .33
5 Projected Sewage Flows                   . . .34
6  Details of Sewer Construction in the Eight Cities............                  35
7 Details of Water Supply Components                . . .37
7 Details of Sewerage Components                 . . .38
8 Detailed Annual Project Investment...   39
8 Summary of Total Project Investment                . . .40
8 Cost Elements by Contracts                         . . .                        41
9 Procurement Tablee....  42
10 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                . . .43
11 Project Implementation Schedule                 . . .44
12  Monitoring Criteria for Water Authority Operations            . . .            45
13  Organization Chart of the Water Authority              .     .     .46



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES (cont.)
14 Current Water and Sewerage Tariffs                       ..                      47
15 Assumptinns used in Financial Projections                    ..                  49
15  Income and Expenditure Statement - Project Water Operations .......    51
15  Income and Expenditure Statement - Project Sewerage Operations ....    52
15  Income and Expenditure Statement - Water Authority Consolidated ...    53
15  Source and Applications of Funds - Water Authority Consolidated ...    54
15  Balance Sheet - Water Authority Consolidated                  ..                55
15  Test of Financial Covenants .................................-.                 56
16  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File    . .                57
MAPS                                                                              Map No.
Water Sources and Supplies to Municipal Systems in Jordan.                      17961
Ramtha -- Water Supply Distribution System and Sewerage  .            .17962
?Iafraq -- Water Supply Distribution System and Sewerage  .           .17963
Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh and Kufrinja - Water Supply
Distribution System and Sewerage    ..17964
Madaba -- Water Supply Distribution System and Sewerage  .            .17965
Ma'an -- Water Supply Distribution System and Sewerage  .            .17966



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:       Water Authority.
Amount:            US$30 million equivalent.
Terms:             15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   Same as  the Bank  loan.   The WA will  bear  the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The project would improve water supply service and provide
new sewerage service in the cities of Ramtha, Mafraq,
Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh, Kufrinja, Madaba and Ma'an. It
would include: (i) construction of about 110 km of trunk
and  distribution  water  mains,  8,000  m3  of  reservoir
storage and supply of water meters; (ii) construction of
about 177 km of trunk and collection sewers, 14,000 house
laterals, 4 waste stabilization pond systems, an imhoff
tank and trickling filter system, one sewage pumping
stations and force mains; (iii) supply of operating
equipment; and (iv) consultant services for supervising the
construction  contracts.   The project will follow through
the institutional development efforts of a previous Bank
loan and of the USAID for which adequate funds have been
provided. The main beneficiaries of the project would be
the low and middle-income families of the eight project
cities. The Water Authority (executing agency) has good
experience with the construction and operation of water
supply and sewerage systems, but has less experience with
water and sewage treatment. While there is a risk of delay
in construction and of inadequate operation of the sewage
treatment plants, this risk is minimized through the use of
experienced consultants, progress monitoring, the use of
simple treatment processes, and the available institutional
development assistance.



Estimated Cost*:                                  Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ Millions) --
Water Supply                                      2.50         5.83        8.33
Sewerage and Sewage Treatment Plant              10.59        20.44       31.03
Meters and equipment                              0.07         0.62        0.69
Construction supervision                          1.36         2.04        3.40
Land                                              2.47          -          2.47
Base Cost                                    16.99       28.93        45.92
Physical Contingencies                            1.93         3.98        5.91
Price Contingencies                               2.75         4.69        7.44
Total Cost                                   21.67       37.60        59.27
Interest and other charges
during construction                              -           6.42        6.42
Total Financing Required                                          fi2
Financing Plan
Proposed World Bank loan                           -          30.00       30.00
Government loans and contribution                19.98        14.02       34.00
Funds from operations                             1.69          -          1.69
Total Financing                         ;1.A         i.RZ
Estimated Disbursements:                           Bank FY
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                  0.1     3.6      8.8     9.2     3.9       3.6    0.8
Cumulative              0.1     3.7    12.5    21.7    25.6       29.2   30.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4972a-JO, dated April 24, 1984
* Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the
project is exempt.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
1.01     About 80 percent of Jordan's land area is desert.  Availability of
water depends largely on rainfall, which ranges from 600 millimeters per year
in the northern uplands to negligible amounts in the southern and eastern
deserts.   Over 85  percent of  the water  precipitated as rainfall is lost
through evaporation. Most of the municipal water supply systems and industry
at present depend upon groundwater and springs. As these sources have become
fully used, surface and groundwater in other areas, hitherto used for
agriculture, will have to be transported over long distances and high lifts to
meet municipal and industrial needs.  The rapid growth of the economy  in
recent years and the associated increase in municipal, industrial and
agricultural water demands have put serious pressure on the country's limited
water resources and water scarcity may become a principal constraint to
economic development. Prudent water resources management is therefore one of
Jordan's most important objectives.
1.02     The Government has embarked on a program of large water projects to
help relieve water shortage in the major urban areas, particularly in the
upland areas of northwest Jordan.  Among the principal projects, the Azraq
pipeline (in operation), and the water transmission system from the East Ghor
Main Canal in the Jordan Valley (under construction) would provide about 55
million cubic meters of water per annum from ground and surface water sources
to the Amman area. Facilities to transfer another 20 million cubic meters per
year of groundwater in the Jordan Valley near Wadi Arab to the Irbid area are
also  under  construction.   The  Government  has  also adopted a policy  for
adequately treating all sewage from industries and municipalities which are



- 2 -
sewered so that effluents may be suitable for reuse in agriculture. The most
important sources of effluent are Amman, Zarqa, and Ruseifa, which discharge
via the Zarqa River into the King Talal Reservoir, an important source of
irrigation water supply.
Water Supply
1.03     Almost 90 percent of the urban population is supplied through house
connections.   Due  to  source  inadequacy,  the  supply  in  many  areas  are
intermittent.  In 1979 about 60 percent of the rural population was provided
with piped water supply, but with ongoing extension works this is expected to
reach about 80 percent by 1985 . The population not receiving piped water is
supplied through tankers operated by the Water Authority (WA) or by private
tankers which draw water from nearby springs, or wells, or from WA water
points.
Sewerage
1.04     At present, only four cities, Amman, Salt, Aqaba, and Jerash have
sewage  collection  systems.   These  serve  about  25  percent  of  Jordan's
population.  Sewerage systems being constructed in Irbid, Zarqa, and Ruseifa
will provide service to another 15 percent.  Amman has a  treatment  plant
utilizing the activated sludge process, which meets part of the capital city's
needs; Salt operates an extended aeration system; Aqaba uses primary
treatment; and Jerash has oxidation ditches.  The treatment plant in Irbid
will use the activated sludge process, while Zarqa and Ruseifa will have
trickling  filters.  Also under construction are stabilization ponds, which
will add to the treatment capacities of the systems in Amman and Aqaba. Other
towns and villages with piped water systems, serving about 40 percent of the
total population, discharge their wastes in septic tanks, cesspools and
similar facilities. The remaining population uses pit privies and latrines or
has no sanitation system at all.   Despite efforts to provide  sewerage  in
recent years, many urban centers are still served by inadequate individual
waste disposal facilities.  In densely populated parts of cities, the soil is
no longer capable of disposing of the increasing amount of effluents.
Consequently, cesspool overflows and improper disposal of cesspool waste
occur,  creating  major  health  hazards.   Severe  outbreaks  of  cholera have
occurred in Jordan, the latest in 1981.
1.05     An increase in nitrite concentration is noted in the groundwater in
the  main  limestone  aquifer underlying  communities  using  cesspools.   This
groundwater is used for potable water supply. Fortunately, in most cases this
source is still bacteriologically safe. The danger exists, however, of direct
entry   of  cesspool   effluents   into   water   mains   during   periods   of
depressurization.



-3-
Sector Organization
1.06     Until recently all water development activities were coordinated and
assisted at the national level by the National Planning Council (NPC),
Jordan's central planning authority.   In December 1983, a law created and
assigned responsibility to the Water Authority (WA) Lor the planning,
development, allocation, and management of all water resources, as well as for
the provision of potable water supply and sewerage services.  This law also
decreed that henceforth all water resources, whether surface or underground,
would be considered property of the state. The major roles assigned to the WA
are (a) the elaboration of policies for the appropriate allocation of water
among potential users; (b) the development of water resources and bulk
transfer to water-short areas; (c) the setting of tariffs to encourage water
conservation and to ensure the Authority's financial viability; and (d) the
protection of water resources. The WA is in the process of taking over all
agencies providing water supply, the departments of certain agencies concerned
with water resources monitoring, planning and development, and the water
systems of some 400 communities which still operate their own water supplies.
The takeover will involve the transfer to the WA of all physical assets of
these entities as well as the liabilities incurred by them.
IDA/Bank Role in Water Supply and Sewerage
1.07     The  Bank  commenced  its  assistance  to  the  Jordanian water supply
sector in the 1960s.  Credit 18-JO of 1961 for US$ 1.5 million and Credit
43-JO of 1963 for US$ 2.5 million supported water supply development
respectively in Amman and in the cities of Ramallah-El Bira, Jerusalem,
Nablus,  Azraq,  Irbid,  and  Zarqa.   These  aforementioned  projects,  which
included provision of new wells, pumping stations, transmission mains, storage
capacity, and improvement and extension of the distribution systems, have been
successfully  completed.      In  the  1970s,  the  Government  concentrated  its
efforts on developing the water supply and sewerage services of Amman.  In
this context, the Bank supported the creation of the former Amman Water and
Sewerage Authority (AWSA), an autonomous water supply and sewerage agency.
The US$ 8.7 million credit (Cr. 385-Jo) of 1973 and the US$ 14 million credit
(Cr. 780-JO) of 1978 assisted in the development of AWSA and helped finance
investments for Amman's rapidly expanding water supply and sewerage services.
The completion report (Sec. 79-491) for the 1973 project (Cr. 385-JO) noted
that while substantial effort had gone into the institutional development of
AWSA, some inherent weaknesses remained, particularly in its financial
department.   The  institutional  development  effort  was  continued  and  the
remaining problems were addressed under the Third Amman Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Cr. 780-JO) which has just recently been completed, and for
which a completion report is under preparation.
1.08     In 1983, the Bank provided further assistance through Loan 2213-JO of
US$ 17.0 million for the improvement of the water supply distribution systems
of the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa and for sewerage in the densely populated



- 4 -
areas of these two cities.  A prime project objective was to strengthen the
Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the project implementing and operating
agency.   Technical  and  financial  advisors  have  already been  engaged,  and
measures to improve operation and financial management are underway. With the
recent reorganization of the sector, responsibility for the implementation and
operation of the project has been taken over by the WA, which has decided that
these advisors will provide assistance to the new organization.
1.09     The Bank's objectives in the sector are to assist the Government to
efficiently develop, manage, and distribute the country's scarce water
resources and to adequately dispose of waste and wastewater in order to
enhance the quality of life, with particular emphasis on the lower income
population.  The strategies for doing this are outlined in the Bank Water
Sector Study (report No. 4699-JO, dated October 13, 1983).  These include (a)
development of policies and plans to  efficiently manage  and allocate  the
country's scarce water resources;  (b) development of technically sound and
economically  feasPNle  projects  to  increase  the  country's  usable  water
resources; (c) development of projects to adequately dispose of wastewater and
to allow reuse; (d) improvement of water distribution systems and reduction of
leakage; (e) improvement in sectoral planning and strengthening of sector
institutions and (f) establishment of sound pricing policies to assure
economic use and conservation of water and to allow operating entities to be
financially viable and self-sustaining.  The Bank objectives have been taken
into account in formulating this and the recent Zarqa/Ruseifa projects and
will also be reflected in future projects.



- 5 -
II. PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01     The project area consists of eight cities with a combined estimated
1984 population of about 136,000.  Six are located north and two south of
Amnan,  the capital  city.   Detailed  population,  family  size  and household
income of these cities appear in Annexes 1 and 2.  A brief description of
their main features follows.
2.02     Ramtha is Jordan's principal border city with Syria, located about 87
kilometers north of Amman. Its population of about 32,200 is supported mainly
by rain-fed wheat land and some olive groves.   The new Yarmouk University
campus is located about four km to the south.
2.03     Mafraq  has about 25,300  inhabitants.   It  is situated  on a  high
semi-desert plateau at one of the crossroads to Saudi Arabia, about 70
kilometers northeast of Amman.   The Mafraq region has a harsh climate not
congenial to agriculture. Rainfall averages less than 200 mm per year.
2.04     The four mountain cities of Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Jannneh and Kufrinja
have a combined population of about 30,800.   They are clustered near  the
headwaters of the beautiful Kufrinja Valley in one of the few areas in Jordan
where oak, pine, cypress and acacia forests can still be found.   The area
enjoys the highest annual rainfall in the country--a mean annual rainfall of
650 mm--and despite the precipitous nature of the terrain, agriculture is
developed, with olives as the main crop.  The area is rich with antiquities
from Roman times, and consequently has good potential for tourism.
2.05     Madaba has a population of about  34,700.   It is built on several
gently rolling hills surrounded by good farm land about 30 kilometers south of
Amman. The climate is mild with an average annual rainfall of about 350 mm.
Madaba is noted for its Byzantine mosaics which attract some tourists.
Because of their proximity to Amman, the areas north and west of Madaba are
becoming  residential  suburbs  for some workers from the capital.   For this
reason, Madaba's population is expected to grow rapidly in the coming years.
The city has no major industry.
2.06     Ma'an  has a  population of about  13,400.   It is situated at the
intersection of the Desert Highway linking Amman to the seaport of Aqaba and
Highway  15,  a major land route to Saudi Arabia.   It is the seat of the
Governorate of Ma'an. Since the start of the hostilities in the Gulf Area,
the Desert Highway has served as a main route for imports to Iraq through
Jordan, and this has added to the importance of Ma'an as a transportation
center. Ma'an is also a major stopover point for pilgrims during the "Raj'
season. The climate is arid, with an average annual rainfall of only about 50
mm. Potential for agriculture is limited. The main industry of the city is a



- 6 -
glass factory, but the Government intends to foster industrial development in
this area as part of its long term regional development plan.
Existing Water Supply Systems
2.07     Details of the existing systems in the eight cities are shown in
Annex 3.  With the exception of the Madaba system, all other systems are
presently operated by the water departments of the respective cities and will
be taken over by the WA. In Madaba, the system was operated by the WSC since
1980 before it was taken over by the WA. A brief description of each system
follows.
Ramtha
2.08     Existing water source is from two relatively low yield local wells,
supplemented by bulk supply from the WA.  The water distribution system is
weak; some older parts of the system suffer from excessive leakage.
Mafrap
2.09     The city has no local water resources and relies exclusively on the
WA for its source of water.  Part of the distribution system of the city is
currently under renovation with funds from the Government.
Anjara, Ailoun, Ein Janneh and Kufrinja
2.10     Water sources are from local springs: two in Anjara, two in Ajloun,
three in Ein Janneh, and two in Kufrinja. These sources are inadequate and
will be supplemented from the WA's Northern District Water  Supply  System
(para. 2.13) in the future.   The water pipes in the existing distribution
systems of Anjara, Ajloun and Ein Janneh are generally in good condition. In
Kufrinja, some older pipes are leaking badly. Adequate elevated storage is
available in all four cities.
Madaba
2.11     The city receives its potable water from the Oyyun Musa Springs, the
Qastal wellfield, and the recently developed Swaga wellfield. In addition the
system will also be connected to the Dier Alla supply system from the East
Ghor Main Canal (para. 1.02), scheduled to commence production in 1985. The
distribution system is presently operated as a single pressure zone. Because
of substantial ground elevation differences within the city as a result of
urban expansion, some sections suffer from inadequate pressure, while in
others excessive pressures are causing serious pipe leakages.
Ma'an
2.12     Water source is from the Tawaheen wellfield located about eleven km
northwest of the city. The distribution pipe system in the city center has



- 7 -
recently been improved. More distribution storage will, however, be required,
together with the laying of some arterial mains to deliver additional water to
the service areas.
Sources of Water Supply
2.13     The six cities north of Amman (Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein
Janneh, and Kufrinja) will eventually be included in the WA Northern District
Water Supply System  (NDWSS)  in  Irbid Governorate.   This  system serves  a
present population of over 600,000 people through direct or bulk supply. The
sources of supply are presently from the Azraq springs and wellfields in Wadi
Duleil,  Wadi Ajib,  and  Sumayia areas.   Present  production  due  to source
limitation is estimated to be only about 12 MCM/year, or an average of about
55 lcd.  Groundwater of an estimated yield of about 20 MCM/year has recently
been discovered in the Jordan Valley near Wadi Arab about twenty kilometers
northwest of Irbid (para. 1.02).  A pumping station and pipeline system is
currently under construction by the government to transport this water to
Irbid to be used in the NDWSS. This work is expected to be completed by 1985,
at which time the water available to NDWSS would be almost tripled, permitting
demands  in the areas served to be met to almost 1995.   Beyond this date
additional sources found at Mukheiba located north of the Wadi Arab wells can
be utilized.  Plans are already under preparation by the NPC (responsibility
to be passed over to the WA shortly) to strengthen the NDWSS in order to bring
the additional water to the various areas and to provide adequate links to the
system for the six project cities. During negotiations assurance was obtained
from WA that sufficient water resources would be made available for the
systems in Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh, and Kufrinja in a
timely manner commensurate with the project implementation schedule to meet
present and future water demands.
2.14     Madaba is presently served from Oyyun Musa Springs and wellfields in
Qastal and Swaga, which also provide a supply to areas south of Amman. The
present developed yield of the groundwater sources is about  14,400 m3 /day,
but the ultimate yield is expected to be almost double this amount and the
delivery system has been designed accordingly. These sources are adequate to
meet the demands of Madaba and the area south of Amman well into the 1990's.
Beyond this date water from the Dier Alla supply system (para. 2.11) can be
used.
2.15     The capacity of the Tawaheen wellfield serving Ma'an is estimated to
be about 10,000 m3/day.  This amount should be adequate to meet the domestic
demands of the city as well as for modest industrial use up to the turn of the
century.
Existing Wastewater Disposal Systems
2.16     The  eight  project  cities  have  no  sewers.   They  are  served  by
cesspools and septic tanks.  In their densely populated areas, the soil is no



- 8 -
longer capable of absorbing effluents, and costly pumping and transportation
to appropriate dump sites are carried out frequently to prevent overflows from
cesspits and septic tanks.  To reduce pumping cost, sullage water is often
thrown out into the streets and this runs untreated into nearby water
courses. In older parts of some of these cities, prolonged seepage of cesspit
effluents has given rise to ground subsidence, endangering the safety of
structures. In addition, there is the risk that the sewage effluent which is
present in the soil may seep into the water systems when these are
depressurized for whatever reasons.
Population
2.17     Population data for the eight project cities is obtained from the
results of the National Housing and Population Census conducted in November
1979.   Their  population  growth  rates  were  derived  from  the  Census  and
observations of the national population growth rate in recent years, adjusted
to take into account the impact of socio-economic factors associated with each
city.  Their combined population is expected to grow from 114,200 in 1979 to
about 169,000 in 1990 (i.e., 3.6 percent per annum) and 270,000 in 2005 (i.e.,
a further 3.2 percent per annum). The detailed population projections are
shown in Annex 1.
Water Demands
2.18     Past water consumptions in these cities do not reflect the potential
demands since supply is frequently restricted due to source limitations.
Inadequate record keeping and unreliable metering are also problems.
Examination of the sales records of the eight cities shows per capita
consumption ranging from 21 to 50 lcd in 1980, 30 to 54 lcd in 1981 and 28 to
69 in 1982. Based on this limited information 42 lcd was taken as the average
daily per capita consumption in all eight cities in 1979.   This was  then
projected to reach 74.5 lcd in 2005, i.e., an average annual increase of 1.25
lcd, or a growth rate corresponding roughly to the demand growth arising from
a six percent per year growth in per capita income at an income elasticity of
demand of 0.35.
2.19     Unaccounted-for water is about 42 percent of water produced in Ramtha
and Ma'an and about  40 percent in the other cities.   Improvement of the
systems together with the anticipated strengthening of operational management
under the project should bring unaccounted-for water down to about 30
percent.  Projections of water production and sales for the eight cities can
be found in the project file, and the increase in water production for the
cities is shown graphically in Annex 4.



-9-
Sewage Flows and Organic Loads
2.20     Sewage  flows  were  estimated  from  the  water  use  projections.
Approximately 67 percent of the population will be connected to the proposed
sewerage systems. These represent the residents in the more densely populated
areas.  About 64 percent of the water produced for the sewered population will
appear as sewage.  This is estimated by assuming an evaporation loss of about
20 percent on the estimated 80 percent of the produced quantities reaching the
consumer. Another 5 lcd is added to account for rain water infiltration.
2.21     There is no sewage flow at present in the eight cities and organic
loads have therefore to be inferred from those observed in other cities in
Jordan.  Test samples collected in Amman indicate a per capita BODS (five
day biochemical  oxygen demand)  of  60 grams per day.   These  results  are
considered somewhat high because the samples used could have contained septage
from cesspool emptiers dumped into the city manholes.   For the purpose of
forecasting BODs loads for treatment plant design, a total per capita BODs
load of 60 grams per capita for the connected population is used comprising of
50 grams per capita for the direct pollution load caused by this population,
plus another 10 grams per capita from cesspool septage of the unconnected
population which has also to be treated in the treatment plants. Projected
sewage flows and organic loads are in the project file, and the projected
sewage flows are again shown graphically in Annex 5.



- 1tQI-
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
3.01     The project will provide much needed improvements in the water supply
distribution systems and will eliminate problems associated with inadequate
cesspools in eight cities in Jordan. This should lead to a general upgrading
of the health and environment of these cities and is in line with the
Government's intention of improving these services in secondary cities.
Project Description
3.02     The  water  supply  component  of  this  project  will  strengthen  the
distribution systems in the eight cities in order to meet demands up to 1995,
and provide for future expansion. Distribution pipes within populated areas
will be sized for the saturation -population. Transmission mains will be laid
to bring additional water from external sources which have been or are being
developed.  Additional storage will be provided for some cities.  In Madaba
the system will also be redesigned and divided into three pressure zones
instead of one.
3.03     Sewers will be constructed to serve the densely populated areas of
these  cities.   In these areas  collection sewers  will  carry effluents  by
gravity to trunk sewers sized to take year 2020 flows. This design year was
found to be the most economic size for the trunk sewers.  The project will
also provide for sewer laterals to be laid to the properties to be connected.
The treatment processes have been selected after consideration of possible
alternatives and are the least cost solutions. Treated effluent will be used
for restricted irrigation. Details are given in Annex 6.
Project Elements
3.04     The project elements are listed in Annex 7 and shown on IBRD maps
17962 to 17966. The components are summarized below:
(a) Water Supply:
Construction of about 110 km of trunk and distribution mains,
8000 m3 of reservoir storage and supply of about 10,000 supply and
production meters
(b) Sewerage and Sewage Treatment:
Construction of about 177 km of trunk and collection sewers, about



- 11 -
14,000 laterals for house connections, four waste stabilization pond
systems  to  treat a total average sewage flow of 6,500 M3/day, a
sewage  treatment  plant  comprised  of  Imhoff  tanks  and  trickling
filters for an average flow of 1,800m3/day, and one sewage pumping
stations and force u.i.is.
(c)  Supply of Operating Equipient
(d)  Consultants for Construction Supervision
3.05     The proposed project should reinforce the institutional development
activities started under Loan 2213-JO by extending the scope of coverage to
include the needs of the newly created WA.  The funds al:eady provided under
that loan and from USAID (paras. 4.06 and 4.0;) are considered to be adequate
for this purpose and no additional funds for institutional development are
therefore proposed to be included in the proposed project.
Cost Estimates
3.06     Project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 8 and summarized below:



- 12 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
JD million                           USt million                     S of
local     foreign       total        local       foreign       total      nrolect cost
Water supply distribution   0.911         2.127       3.038         2.S00       5.833        8.333        14.1
Sewerage                     2.438       5.687        8.125         6.685      15.601       22.286        37.6
Sewage treatment Plants       1.423       1.767       3.190         3.903       4.847        8.750        14.8
Meters & operating equip.   0.025         0.225       0.250         0.069       0.617        0.686        11.6
Construction supervision    0.496         0.744       1.240         1.361       2.041        3.402         S.7
Land                          0.900       -           0.900         2.469         -          2.469         4.2
Base cost                    6.193       10.S50      16.743        16.987      28.939       45.926        77.S
Physical contingencies       0.703       1.451        2.154         1.928       3.980        5.908    .  10.0
Price contingencies           1.001      1.710        2.711         2.747       4.692        7.439        12.5
Total Project Cost                    LA.Z .ZJ 1J.1l             Z.L.MZ U.Lh=             SLZZZ WIlLA
Interest during               -          2.320        2.3zo         -           6.340        6.340
construction
Front-end fee                -           0.027        0.027         -           0.075        0.075
on Bank loan
Total financing             7.897     16.059       23.956        21.662      44.025       65.687
required



- 13 -
3.07     The quantity estimates in the feasibility studies were updated at
appraisal  to reflect  the work  completed by the design consultants.   Cost
estimates are based on unit prices in recent construction contracts resulting
from competitive bidding for similar work undertaken by AWSA under Credit
780-JO and other work carried out by WSC, adjusted to mid-1984 prices.
Physical contingencies of 15% have been allowed for the construction of sewers
and water mains and l0Z for other items such as water storage reservoirs and
sewage  treatment  plant  (excluding land).   Price contingencies of 7.5% for
1984; 7.0% for 1985; and 6.0S for 1986 and beyond have been used for foreign
costs, and 7.5X for 1984 and beyond for local costs.  The cost estimates do
not include direct import duties and taxes as the WA is exempt from these.
Project Financing Plan
3.08     The project financing plan may be summarized as follows:
Local      Foreign        Total         Z
CUS$ million)
Requirements
Water supply distribution           3.34         7.68       11.02          17
Sewerage                            8.96        20.59       29.55          45
Sewage treatment plants             4.88         5.99       10.87          17
Meters and operating equipment      0.08         0.70        0.78           1
Construction supervision            1.75         2.64        4.39           6
Land                                2.66         -           2.66           4
Total                            21.67        37.60       59.27          90
Interest during
construction and
front-end fee                     -            6.42        6.42          10
Total                            21.67        44.02       65.69         1Q
Financing
Proposed Bank loan                              30.00       30.00          45
Government loans &
contribution                     19.98        14.02       34.00          52
Available from operations           1.69         -            1.69          3
Total                            21.67        44.02       65.69         ___



- 14 -
3.09     The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government of Jordan
(GOJ), which coordinates all foreign financing for public sector investments
through NPC, on standard terms for Jordan, i.e. for 15 years including 3 years
grace.  GOJ will on-lend the Bank loan to the WA on substantially similar
terms and conditions under a separate subsidiary loan agreement. The WA will
bear  the  foreign  exchange  risk.    Interest  and  other  charges  during
construction over the grace period and the front-end fee will be added to the
subsidiary loan and be paid for by GOJ. The execution of the above subsidiary
loan agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.10     Financing  to meet any  foreign exchange  costs  in excess  of  that
covered by the Bank loan would be provided by the Government. The Government
would also provide all local funds required for the project in the form of an
equity cont-ibution to the WA.  During negotiations agreement was obtained
from the Government that it would provide all necessary finances whether
foreign or local, required for the project, and that the local funds provided
for the project would be passed on to the WA as an equity contribution.
Status of Engineering
3.11     Feasibility studies were carried out by two US consultants financed
by USAID.   The  proposed water  supply networks  and  sewerage  systems  were
decided after careful study of alternative configurations and pipe sizes. The
waste stabilization ponds proposed for four of the five sewage treatment
plants gave the least cost-solution as well as provided for ease of
operation. The mechanical process selected for the fifth plant made necessary
by land constraint was the least cost-solution.  Preparation of design and
contract documents is carried out by three local consultants (Jouzy &
Partners, Consulting Engineering Center and Arab Tech) with funds provided by
the  Government,  supported  by  three  consultants  from  the  United  States
(Engineering Science, Black & Veatch and CH2M Hill) funded under USAID
assistance. The work is almost completed and tendering is expected to take
place in June 1984.  An amount of US$ 3.4 million has been provided in the
project for consultant services required for supervision of the construction
work.   Estimated consultant time required  is 140 man-months at $14,500 for
foreign consultants, 185 man-months at $3,700 for professionals of local
consultants and 390 man-months at $1,750 for local technicians and support
staff.   The man-month costs include salary, overheads,  fees,  international
travel and subsistence for foreign consultants and salary plus overhead for
local personnel.   Consultant costs are more expensive  than  in neighboring
countries because of the high cost of living in Jordan.
Procurement
3.12     All major contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
A procurement table outlining the proposed procurement methods to be used is
found in Annex 9. The proposed contract packaging is in page 3 of Annex 8.
For all civil contracts expected to last more than one year, allowance for



- 15 -
price increases is considered desirable. However, in the past the Government
has had poor experience with price adjustment provisions and has passed
regulations to discourage their inclusion in construction contracts.  During
negotiations, understanding was nevertheless reached with. the Government and
the WA that for civil works contracts expected to last longer than 12 months,
bid documents would allow inclusion of a price adjustment orovision for major
construction materials with administered prices.  This reqvirement, to which
the Covernment has agreed in previous Bank loans, provides some measure of
protection to the contractor against unforeseen price increases. Because of
the number of consultants (three) involved in the preparation of the contract
documents, the number of contracts that will be handled by each consultant is
small.   Due  to the diversity  in  the nature  of  the contracts under each
consultant, procurement documents for all contracts would receive prior review
by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.13     The proposed Bank loan of US$ 30 million would be disbursed over a
period of approximately six years as follows:
1.  Civil works ...................... 52% of total expenditures
(including related equipment
for water supply & sewerage)
(US$ 24,000,000)
2.  Meters and operating ............ 100% of foreign expenditures,
equipment                        85% of expenditures for locally
(US$ 600,000)                    procured items
3.  Consultant services ............. 100% of foreign expenditures
(US$ 2,400,000)
4.  Unallocated
(US$ 3,000,000)
3.14     The forecast disbursement schedule (Annex 10) is based on the Project
Implementation Schedule (Annex 11) and takes into consideration the standard
disbursement  profile  for water supply projects  in  Jordan.   The  slightly
shorter forecast of disbursements compared to the standard profile is
supported by the advanced stage of the design, the relative simplicity of the
work to be carried out, favorable site conditions such as absence of traffic
congestion or other situations that could impede construction work, and the
fact  that  the  Bank  is  the  sole  financier  of  external  funds.   The
implementation schedule from which the disbursement schedule is derived has,
in addition, included a very large time contingency over that recommended by



- 16 -
the consultants.  All disbursements will be made against  fully documented
expenditures. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1990.
Project Implementation
3.15     The project would be executed from 1984 to 1989.  The WA would be
responsible for project execution and has agreed to set up a project
management unit headed by an experienced project manager to be responsible for
the work.  The project manager has already been appointed.  Staffing of the
unit by experienced personnel is essential to ensure successful project
implementation. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
WA that all key administrative and technical personnel for the project
management unit would be employed by December 31, 1984.
3.16     Sewer  laterals  will  be  constructed  by  the  project  up  to  the
individual properties, while the plumbing systems will have to be altered at
the owner's expense. The WA has sewer regulations which require properties to
be  connected once  the system has been extended to an area.   The expense
required for sewer connection may pose some financial difficulty for the lower
income  group.   The WA has  found  that in Amman about two percent of the
homeowners had needed financial assistance. For the project cities it is
expected that this percentage will be somewhat higher. Over a period of three
years, the total funds required to finance sewer connections of the about 10
percent of the consumers who are considered to be needy would be about JD
140,000 (US$ 384,000), a sum within the financial capability of the WA.
During loan negotiations assurance was obtained from the WA that it would if
required assist in making arrangements to enable low income families in these
cities to be connected to the sewer systems.
Land Acquisition and Access
3.17     The land required for the sewage treatment plants, the sewage pumping
stations  and part  of  the  trunk sewers  is privately  owned.   No  land  is
presently  in  use.   Expropriation  Law  No.  6  of  1980 allows  land  to be
expropriated with equitable compensation for projects of public interest.
Expropriation approval by the Council of Ministers usually takes less than six
months.  The WA has already commenced taking measures for land acquisition,
and from past experience of previous loans this is not considered to be a
problem.
Monitoring Criteria
3.18     The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 11,
and key indicators for the measurement of the technical, financial,



- 17 -
institutional and training objectives for the WA are shown in Annex 12.
During negotiations the project implementation schedule and the key indicators
were discussed with the WA and understanding was reached on an acceptable
schedule  and  set of  key targets to be achieved by the WA.  Furthermore,
assurance was obtained from the WA that quarterly progress reports would be
prepared in sufficient detail on all aspects of the project and sent to the
Bank for review not later than one month after the end of each quarter, and
that the WA would promptly carry out any agreed remedial actions resulting
from discussions with the Bank following such review.
3.19     Assurance was also obtained that within six months  following  the
closing date of the Loan, the WA would prepare and submit to the Bank a
project   completion  report   reviewing  the  planned  objectives  and   the
achievements of the project, including costs and benefits derived and
performance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution
and system operation.



- 18 -
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
4.01     The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will be the Borrower of the proposed
US$ 30.0 million Bank loan, the proceeds of which will be on-lent to the newly
created Water Authority (WA), which will implement the project and operate and
maintain all the water supply and sewerage systems. The water supply systems
in all of the project cities except Madaba, which is already under WA
operation, are operated by the respective municipal departments.  Operational
responsibilities for these therefore will have to be assumed by the WA.
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that the
water supply systems of the project cities except Madaba would be legally
transferred to the WA no later than June 30, 1985.
Organization and Management
4.02     The WA, created in December 1983 under Law No. 34 of 1983, has been
assigned wide responsibility for water resources management, water supply and
sewerage in Jordan (para. 1.06).  It is an autonomous agency reporting to the
Prime Minister's office, enjoying independent financial and administrative
status.   It  has  a  twelve-member  Board  of  Directors,  of  which  ten  are
ex-officio and two are from the private sector. The Board is chaired by the
Prime Minister.   Headquarters  in Amman are managed by a President and a
Secretary General who deputizes for him. Both positions are appointed by the
Council of Ministers. The WA is gradually taking over the functions and staff
of all water agencies in Jordan and has set up with this staff a new
organization which is expected to evolve as it develops to fully assume its
role.  The present organization is shown in Annex 13.  The headquarters  in
Amman has the following departments: Water Supply Operations, Sewerage
Operations,   Finance   and   Accounting,   Administration,   Water   Resources
Management, Planning and Project Implementation. Operation and maintenance of
water supply and sewerage will be carried out in three regional offices, each
under a manager, but supervised by the headquarters departments of Water
Supply  Operations,  Sewerage  Operations  and  Finance  and  Accounting.   The
regional offices will also be subject to control by water councils composed of
representatives of private and public sectors.
4.03     The WA has already taken over the Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
(AWSA), previously responsible for water supply and sewerage in the city of
Azmnan, the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), previously responsible for bulk
water supply and for water supply and sewerage in areas of Jordan outside of
Amman and the Jordan Valley and the water resources branch of the Natural
Resources Authority (NRA).  Additional agencies to be taken over include the
water department of the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA), responsible for
developing water resources in the Jordan Valley and providing water supply to



- 19 -
communities in the valley. and the water systems of some 400 coamunities that
still operate their own water supplies.
4.04     The  number  of  WA  staff  engaged  in  water  supply  and  sewerage
operations now number about 2,850, composed principally of equal numbers of
employees taken over from WSC and AWSA. This number corresponds to about 13
employees per one thousand connections served and is reasonable given the fact
that the WA's responsibilities are spread over the whole country and the
population density outside Amian is low.  In addition, another 850 employees
have been added to the WA from its takeover of the functions of the water
resources branch of the NRA.
4.05     Through the creation of the WA many overlapping functions are being
eliminated and staff from the different organizations brought together to work
in consolidated units. While this will contribute to increased productivity,
additional staff will still have to be recruited to operate the new sewerage
systems being built under this project and others, as well as those in
existence and those projected for Amman.  By mid 1989 when this project is to
be completed, the WA staff is projected to grow to about 5,000.
Institutional Development
4.06     Institutional assistance is being provided to the WA by the Bank
under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan 2213-JO) and by the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), with whom the Bank is cooperating
closely in this work. Bank funds under Loan 2213-J0 will be used to engage a
management advisor to assist the WA to design a sound organization structure,
establish staffing and training needs, develop an appropriate management
information system and propose personnel policies.  A technical advisor has
already been engaged who will  review and make recommendations to improve
operating and maintenance practices in the WA, set up a data collection system
for project planning purposes, and assist in the preparation of major
projects. The Bank funds will also finance a study which will look into the
design of appropriate tariffs, taking into consideration the need for
conservation, the affordability to the poor, and the generation of adequate
revenues to allow the enterprise to remain financially viable. Selection of
consulants for this work is now in hand.
4.07     USAID  assistance  is  being  provided  through  two  projects  for
improvement of water supply and provision of sewerage in the city of Irbid and
the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa (cofinanced by the Bank), and a special
technical assistance project aimed at training sector personnel and local
consultants and contractors.  Through these projects USAID funds are made
available for engaging financial advisors to help build up the WA's accounting
system and to assist in developing its financial management capability, as
well as for the development of training facilities and programs for local
sector staff  training and  for  training abroad.   Under  the  last  project.
experienced consultants from the United States have been engaged to provide
technical support to three local consulting firms engaged by the Jordanian



- 20 -
Government for designing the water supply and sewerage systems of ten cities,
eight of which are included in this project.
Staffing
4.08     The WA's salary  levels  for its  technical  staff are competitive;
attracting and retaining qualified technical staff does not pose a problem.
The situation regarding financial staff is different in that salary levels are
substantially lower and there is a general shortage of qualified accountants
in Jordan.   The  issues  related  to  salary  structure  and  other  personnel
policies which would enable the WA to attract and retain staff with necessary
qualifications will be addressed by the Management Advisor (para. 4.06).
Also, at present the WA's sewerage operations are limited to Amman, Salt,
Jerash, and Aqaba. Future WA's responsibilities in operating sewerage will
require additional qualified and experienced sewerage system operators and
managers. Such skilled personnel are not easily found in Jordan and a program
for  training  in such skills is being planned (para. 4.09).  The WA will
recruit for project implementation suitable staff who will eventually be
responsible for operations, so that they can acquire useful knowledge of the
systems as  they are constructed.   Consultants will be retained to provide
additional training during system start-up.
Training
4.09     The WA has an ongoing training program financed largely by the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID). The program provides for
training of managerial and professional staff abroad and operating staff at
local institutions. The financial advisors financed by USAID (para. 4.07) are
providing on-the-job training to the accounting staff in implementing a public
utility accounting system.   Several  facilities  exist  in Jordan--the Amman
Polytechnic Institute, the Vocational Training Corporation, the University of
Jordan and the Yarmouk University--which now provide training for technicians
in civil, mechanical,  electrical and chemical engineering.   Plans exist to
offer training in water supply and wastewater engineering in the near future
and a training proposal is being prepared specifically for sewage treatment
plant operators, taking into account the number of such plants to be
commissioned in the future.
4.10     The USAID has also studied the overall training requirements in the
sector as a whole and prepared a report which details the required short and
long term technical advisors, training materials and equipment to assist and
implement a long term training program.  It has incorporated this program in
its "Water Systems and Services Management Project" and has provided
sufficient funds for its implementation.



- 21 -
Billing and Collection
4.11     The  WA  bills  some  of  its  large volume  customers  in its Amman
operations  on a monthly basis  and  residential  consumers  quarterly.   The
consumers outside Amman are on a two month billing cycle. The billing for the
Amman area is fully computerized and operated by the WA's staff, while that
outside Amman is done by a service bureau and some billing is done manually.
The WA is planning to expand its own computer facilities to do all its billing
in-house by the end of 1985.
4.12     The WA's accounts receivable represent about four months of sales and
can be improved. WA's management is devising systems to provide incentives to
bill collectors for improving collection. Progress in reducing the proportion
of   outstanding   receivables   would   be   monitored   throughout   project
implementation (Annex 12).
Accounting
4.13     The WA's accounting system in the Amman area follows the standard
public utility format, is on an accrual basis, and is reasonably well kept;
that outside Amman is on a cash basis, as prescribed for government agencies.
Although these accounts may be readily translated into the more generally used
utility format, they are not entirely satisfactory from an operating point of
view. The WA recognizes this weakness and has decided to extend the accrual
system of  its  Anman area  to its entire operations.   The system will be
computerized and, through appropriate coding, will produce accounts to satisfy
both the government-prescribed system and the public utility format with
accruals.
4.14     The financial advisor provided under USAID assistance  (para. 4.07)
has already prepared a manual of accounts for implementation in early 1985.
Meanwhile the accounting personnel are being trained.  Implementation will be
monitored through periodic progress reports.
Audit
4.15     The WA's  Amman operations  have  been annually audited by a local
independent auditing firm. The audit reports have been of acceptable quality
and prepared in sufficient detail.  The operations outside Amman have until
now been subject to a system of expenditure control and final audit by the
Government Auditing Department.   Since the accounting system of all the WA
operations will be converted into a standard public utility format beginning
in 1985, assurances from the WA were obtained at negotiations that (i) from



- 22 -
fiscal 1985 onwards all the WA's accounts would be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank and experienced in public utility accounting systems;
(ii) that the audited financial statements and the auditors report would be
forwarded to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year; and
(iii) that prior to 1985, the Government's Auditing Department would continue
to audit the WA's accounts for its operations outside Amman a..d that copies of
its audit report, financial statements, and the report of the Auditing
Department would be forwarded to the Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
Insurance
4.16     The WA  carries insurance with a Jordanian insurance company which
follows the general guidelines regarding insurance for a government agency.
These primarily relate to workmen's compensation and third party liability for
vehicle and equipment operators.  In view of the WA's expanding operations,
the adequacy of the insurance coverage would be reviewed periodically through
the progress reports.



- 23 -
V. FINANCE
Past Performance and Present Position
5.01     The financial position of the WA has to be interpreted in the context
of the past performance of the organizations (AWSA and WSC) which it has taken
over.   It reflects  the nationwide scope of its operations, the scarcity of
water which makes it imperative to protect sources and to treat and where
feasible to recycle effluents, the low average consumption levels, the
locational mismatch between water sources and consumption centers which
necesitates the transportation of water over long distances and steep
gradients, and the relatively high cost of construction in Jordan.
5.02     In communities where the WA has a piped water supply system, the WA
derives most of its revenues from water and sewerage charges based on metered
water consumption. In addition, once a decision has been made to construct
sewerage in a municipality, the WA also collects a one-time sewerage
connection fee equal to 25% of the annual rental value of the property and a
4Z  annual  tax  on  the  same  rental value  for  twenty  years.   For  small
communities without a piped water supply and for a substantial nomadic
population, the WA provides a tanker supply or a free supply from water
points. The cost of providing this supply is up to ten times that in the
larger centers.   For reasons  of  equity and affordability,  the Government
assumes a portion of this cost.  On this basis, the WA's net revenues have
been sufficient to cover its operating costs, debt service and a portion of
its investment costs.
5.03     At  the end of  1983  the WA had a  current  ratio  of  2.6  and  a
debt/equity ratio of 24/176 which reflect the significant role of the
Government in the financing of the WA's facilities.
Tariff-Cost Recovery
5.04     The WA's tariffs are proposed by its Board of Directors and subject
to approval by the Council of Ministers.  In the past, water tariffs in its
Amman and non-Amman urban operations were slightly different,and these tariffs
were high. Annex 14 provides detailed information on existing tariffs. Water
tariffs in its piped supply operations are in line with -the cost of these
services, while the cost of providing tanker supply and free water point
service is partially supported by the Government (para. 5.02). The structure
of the water tariff is adequate with an average tariff for municipal areas of
about JD 0.264 per cubic meter.
5.05     At present the WA's sewerage operations are limited only to parts of
Amman, Salt, Aqaba, and Jerash.   Projects  to construct sewerage in Irbid,
Zarqa and Ruseifa and to expand the sewerage systems in Amman and Aqaba are
underway. The proposed Bank project would introduce sewerage in eight



- 24 -
medium-sized cities, while a USAID-financed project would cover two more
cities.  It is clear, therefore, that the WA's sewerage operations will grow
extremely rapidly in the next five to six years with significant financial
implications.
5.06     Bas-.l on the current system of sewerage charges, the WA's average
revenue is abnut JD 0.230 per cubic meter, which is financially adequate.
However, as sewerage systems are expanded and new systems built, the cost of
providing these services will also go up and higher sewerage charges will be
necessary.   Such  charges  are  still  seen  to  be  within  the  customer's
willingness to pay in view of the substantial savings from not having to empty
cesspools, and the higher quality of service provided by sewerage.  It thus
appears possible to recover the cost of sewerage.  The  Bank  loan  for  the
Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan 2213-JO) provides for a tariff study which
includes the determination of appropriate sewerage charges for cost recovery
and the means for collecting such charges which may be through a combination
of tariffs, user charges and levies.  While the original study was to have
covered only the operations of the former WSC, its scope has now been revised
to include the WA's entire operations.  Consultants for the study are being
recruited and the results of the study are expected to be ready and sent to
the Bank for review by December 31, 1984, following which appropriate sewerage
charges  will  be  implemented.    The  execution  of  this  study  and  the
implementation  of  its  recommendations  are  being  monitored  under   the
Zarqa/Ruseifa project (Loan 2213-JO).
The WA's Sources and Application of Funds
5.07     The table below shows the estimated sources and applications of funds
for the WA for the period 1984-1989.
FY1984-1989
JD         US$
--------(Millions)---
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                   66.84       183.14       21
Government Contribution                   118.30       324.14        37
Customer Contributions                      6.29        17.24         2
Loans                                     124.65       341.54        40
Total                            316.0        866.06       1Q
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditures                      257.67       706.02        82
Debt Service                               57.46       157.44        18
Increases in Working Capital                 .95         2.60        -
Total                           __0            __6.6       1QQ



- 25 -
5.08     The WA's investments during the period would be substantial, whereas
the benefits would be derived over a long period. It will also have to assume
the liabilities associated with the substantial capital expenditures on water
resources  development  being  undertaken  by  the  JVA  (para.  1.06).   Funds
generated from internal sources and customer contributions would provide about
23 percent of the overall funds required of which 18 percent would be for debt
service, leaving 5 percent towards capital investments and increases in
working capital.
Future Financial Performance
5.09     The financial forecasts for the proposed eight cities project as well
as for the WA as a whole and the assumptions on which they are based appear in
Annex 15.
5.10     The period covered by the projections will be one of rapid growth for
the WA.  By the year 1990 its volume of water sales is expected to be 60Z
higher than that of 1984, and with the new sewerage systems the volumes which
will be billed for sewerage will go up almost four times. The volume of water
supplied by tankers and at water points will not increase very much.  The
revenues from water sales would go up about 2.6 times and the revenues from
sewerage and the taxes collected for sewerage services would go up about seven
times.  In the same period operating expenses would go up about 2.5 times.
The difference between revenues and expenses would leave a margin which would
be sufficient for the WA to meet its financial obligations.  Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the WA will from fiscal year 1985 onwards (i) for
its metered water services maintain or adjust tariffs to provide sufficient
revenues  to  cover  its  operating  and  maintenance  expenses  (excluding
depreciation), debt service and increases in  working capital and to finance
commencing in fiscal year 1987 not less than 5% and from fiscal year 1989
onwards not less than 10% of the average annual investment cost in each
consecutive three-year period comprising one actual and two forecast years;
(ii) for its sewerage operations, implement a system of sewerage user charges,
fees and levies sufficient to cover full operating and maintenance cost
(excluding depreciation) and debt service or depreciation whichever is
higher.  For its water services by tankers and at water points, agreement was
obtained from the Government that it would compensate the WA for any deficits
resulting from such operations.  Agreement was also reached at negotiations
that the WA would provide the Bank three months before the beginning of each
fiscal year with copies of its forecast budget for the fiscal year, financial
projections for the following two years as well as its proposals for
adjustments in tariffs.
5.11     In the period 1984-90,  the WA's debt-equity ratio would vary from
28:72 to 36:64, which is very satisfactory.  In the same period its assets
would grow about 2.5 times. Average water tariffs would have to go up about
60X in this period, only slightly above the adjustment necessary for
inflation, which also confirms the adequacy of the present water tariffs.
Charges for sewerage would not have to grow as much because of savings from
economies  of  scale.   Internal  cash  generation should  cover  debt  service
adequately.



- 26 -
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
Health Benefits and Environmental Impact
6.01     While improvements have been made, the present level of water supply
service in all the eight project cities is still far from satisfactory. Parts
of the systems are old and undersized and in need of replacement and frequent
repair. Trunk line sizes are inadequate, and distribution storage is short.
Consequently, water pressures are low in many parts of the cities and likely
to deteriorate further with population growth. In the densely populated areas
of the cities, the intermittent service and pressure drops cause polluted
groundwater to seep into the systems. Health hazards are caused by overflow
of cesspools due to saturation of soil seepage capacity and the foundations of
many buildings are threatened by soil subsidence problems from the presence of
cesspool effluents. The project would rectify this situation by improving the
distribution systems to provide sufficient quantities of water at adequate
pressures, and by reducing the discharge of effluents into the soil through
the replacement of cesspools and septic tanks with sewerage. Furthermore, the
wastewater in densely populated areas of the cities would be collected and
used for irrigation purposes after appropriate treatment.
Least-Cost Solution
6.02     Facilities to be constructed under this project would serve the needs
of the population up to the year 1995. Designs of the proposed systems are in
accordance with sound engineering principles, utilizing acceptable design
criteria and valid approaches.   The overall designs were reviewed by the
mission, including pipe sizes, configuration of the water mains and
distribution systems, reservoirs, sewer systems and the sizes and processes of
the sewage treatment plants. The consultants studied between three and five
alternative systems for each of the cities and the proposed systems were found
to be the least cost solution at discount rates of 8, 10 and 12 percent.
Economic Efficiency of Sector Investments
6.03     Tariffs for water are roughly similar all over Jordan  (Annex 14),
thus providing cross-subsidization from large to small consumers and between
larger and smaller agglomerations. A uniform tariff structure is expected to
be used all over Jordan following the completion of the tariff study in
December 1984 (para. 5.06).
6.04     In Jordan the long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of water at a
discount rate of 10Z varies between JD 0.370/m3 in areas where water is
locally available to JD 0.490/m3 for areas such as Amman, where water has to



- 27 -
be pumped over long distances. The appropriateness of the investments in the
sector is substantiated by the fact that more than 302 of the water sold by
the WA is charged at the highest block tariff, which exceeds the LRAIC. These
consumers have  therefore  shown  their willingness  to pay for the cost of
providing additional water and for expanding services to larger segments of
the population.
6.05     For sewerage the LRAIC for overall sector investment is about JD
0.300 per cubic meter at a discount rate of 10X.  The average sewerage charge
in 1988 to meet financial requirements would be about JD 0.213 per cubic meter
in real terms and would be collected through a combination of sewerage
surcharges, taxes and levies.
Affordability
6.06     The water tariffs and sewerage charges envisioned for the project
should not impose any serious burden on even the lowest income segment of the
project area households.  The lowest quintile of average household income in
the project area  is about  JD  82/month  (Annex  2).   Assuming  an  average
household size of seven persons and an average per capita water consumption of
40 liters/day, the average water and sewerage bill would be about JD
3.00/month,  which  represents  about  3.6%  of  the  family  income.   This  is
considered to be well within the affordability to pay of the lowest income
segment of the population in the project area.  For purposes of comparison, a
family would pay up to JD 3 per month for emptying cesspools alone.
Institution Building
6.07     The  project  will  continue  the  Bank's  assistance  to  Jordan  in
reinforcing  and  strengthening  sector  institutions  started  under  previous
credits and loans.  Bank assistance in this project is particularly timely
because  of  the recent  creation  of  the WA, which,  in a pronounced  way,
demonstrates the Government's determination to improve the institution of the
sector.  The project will provide a continuing opportunity to help develop the
technical and financial management capabilities of the WA staff through
association with supervision consultants and Bank staff. It will also help to
extend to the entire WA organisation the technical assistance intended for the
former WSC under Bank Loan 2213-JO.
Risks
6.08     There  are  some  risks  associated with  the  implementation of  the
proposed project. While the WA has good experience with constructing water
supply and sewerage systems it has less experience with treatment plants. The
possibility of delays and higher costs which might result have, however, been



- 28 -
taken into account in the project implementation schedule and in the project
cost estimates. The WA staff has experience in operating sewerage systems but
the municipal staff that it would be taking over would have to be trained.
Slippage in deriving the expected benefits from the project can therefore
occur from delays in implementing the large sewer connection program.
6.09     Substantial effort will be required of the WA to minimize the risks
mentioned  above.   Success  will  eventually  depend  on  the  commitment  and
dedication of the WA's management, its ability to recruit experienced staff in
certain critical areas, and the development and training of its existing
personnel. Measures to assist the WA management in these efforts have been
taken under previous Bank loans by providing (i) consultants for construction
supervision and carrying out tariff studies; (ii) experts to assist in the
development of a new accounting system and training staff in its use; (iii)
experts to conduct an  organizational study and to assist in implementing
organizational  changes;  and  (iv)  training  for  WA  staff.   Asssistance  in
training on a much larger basis rwill also be provided under a concurrent
project that USAID is undertaking.  This project will provide consultants for
construction supervision and will reinforce the institutional assistance
described previously. Assistance by the WA to low income families in making
arrangements for sewer connections will help to ensure that the sewer
connection program will be carried out expeditiously.   Given the past good
record, the importance of the sector for Jordan, and the actions recommended
in this report, the risks associated with the project would be minimized.



- 29 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During  negotiations  agreement  and  understanding  were  reached  on
various issues referred to in Chapters II through V of this report.
7.02     A condition of effectiveness is the submission of a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the Government and the WA (para.
3.09).
7.03     Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in this report,
the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 30.0 million to the
Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.



- 30 -
HASWI XMDG   OF JD    N                                                 I
EIOlI CITILS W.h SPitY AND S3 Z PIV!CT
FGu;AnTG PNaEfl
Population Crawth Rate
(Percent per Year)
(it2es                                                 Population                                       (Acual
196WL/    197I        1984        1990       1995       2000        2005        1961-79     1979-90     199W-2005
hamtha                10,791    27,130      32,220      39,600     45.910      53.230     61,700          5.3         3.5          3.0
f.afraq                9,499    21,280      25,270      31,060     36,010      41.750     46,400          4.6         3.5          3.0
Anjiara. Ajlom,
I-in JnAeh & Kutrinja   n.a.    25,920      30,780      37,840     43,870      50,80       58,960         n.a.        3.5          3.0
haaaba                11,224    28,510      34,680      43.880     52,630      63,110      75,690         5.3         4.0          3.7
;ia'an                  n.a.    11,310      13,430      16,510     19,140      22,190      25,720         n.s.        3.5          3.0
L.igiht cities totAl    n.a.   114,150     136,380     168,890    197,560     231,140     270,470         n.n.        3.6          3.2
Jordan (East BanJO      n.a. 2,147,000   2,573,000   3,197,W00  3,724,000   4,351,00D   5,068,000         n.B.        3.7          3.1
I/ kesults of population census canducted in 1961.
k hesults oi the Housing and Population Censa conducted in 1979.



- 31 -
HBAiF4   KTIX4 Cr JORDI                     ANN! 2
ElOff Cf;S   M  S"MY AND SERAW  PMC
ESrIMEL HOUSEHLD SIZES AND HOUiDtD INtE:S
Estin.ted household sizes and household inccnes
Average          at percentiles in JD/inth at 1984 prices
Cities                   household size       20        40         50        60         80
kimntha                        7             97        145        182       242        363
.-afraq                        7             73         97        121        142       182
Anjara, Ajloun,
Ein Janneh & Kufrinja          7             85        105        121       150        232
Madaba                         7
1lo  income graop                          76        101       126        150        202
higi incaie group                         202        253        253        253       253
Na'an                          7             76        101        114        126       152
Source: Feasibility study oI the Municipal Water Distribution Iqronfvmts and Sewerage and
Stornwater Drainage Systens in ?iadaba, Karak, Tafila and Ma'an - James M.
?!icntgcmery/Brwan and Caldwell. March 1983.
Feasibility study of the Water Distributicn, Storwater and Sanitary Sewerage
Systems in Baitha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun and Ein Janneh - Engineering Science/Jouzy
& Partners. July 1983.



- 32 -
IUMA1Y . K1Nci1 OF JORDN                                         ANN  3
LICM  ClU1 hAThR  JMWLY AM  SF1UN   PHCI
IE'AILS (* ETIGA11.                      S     S O hIC*
Aniara, Ajlxn.
nthaiw                  Idkraq           hin Janneh 6 Kutrinja           Madaba                    Ma'mn
5u nn                  12,5(1A l,lf0k                                   14,490nr                ll,mO(                     ,93bir
i' nor.                 ;,Wl.                  12,20(x                  Jfl,595r                 3,63rm.                  3,220n
1[t nni.                 5,(114,3xo                                       8,245Ch                 I,530i                 22,621>
i.,n                         -                    5Wn                    1,OOOn                 1,47n
15., nt,                 1,3Uxi                  1 ,Plp-                  2,51fx                       -                  2,?1(1l
2(11 un                  1,51AnI ,4(1b.                                                    -
'IVIAL        La17Uv                                  31j 3bAn n16 25.r                                IPjI30m
Stc,rz.                      i,2X ;d                 :7,3 1>                  1,651b3                  X3                      1,545n0
buze,:   Lar. as ler Arm   2.



- 33-                                  ANNEX 4
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Prolected Watr Production
MCM
30  .  .
25-
2.0
1Q80          1985            190             1995           2000          2COS
Veot
Va 3o*-2S5"1



- 34 -                                     ANNEX 5
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITES WATER SUPPLYAND SEWERAGE PROJECr
Projected Sewag Rows
m3/dciy
aSOCI               I
Rawntho
peiod offlow
bukkupwith
canm!Ilnsloning dc
new Systm
Z500->_^   s
zswio
Maktag
AnJar. Aoprn En Jonneh
, <  - :~            ~~~~~~~ Kuflinjo
I~~~~~~~
500         f                -
 #                 ~~~~~-t -ComDCty of n tow
198S5           1 z0           1995            2000           2ms5
Year
I..'rl Bar*-25912



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
RASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PRO'ECT
DETAILS OF SEWER CONSTRUCTION IN THE EIGHT CITIES
Ramtha
1.01     Due to the presence of a ridge, collection sewers will drain east and
west to two trunk sewers which will drain northwards to join at the northern
extremity of the city. From this point the sewage will be pumped via a 450 mm
diameter force main to a sewage treatment plant about three km north of the
city. Sewage treatment will be by waste stabilization ponds. The process
will include anaerobic lagoons, followed by facultative lagoons and maturation
ponds designed to treat the 1995 average sewage flow of 1920 m3/day.
Sufficient land irLcluding that for future plant expansion will be acquired.
Mafraq
1.02     Collection sewers will drain east and west to two trunk sewers
running in a northerly direction. The west trunk sewer will terminate at the
northwest end of the city and sewage will then be pumped to the northeast end
of the city via a 300 mm force main across the city ridge to ioin the east
trunk. From this point the sewage will flow eastwards via a three km long
800 mm main trunk sewer to the sewage treatment plant. The proposed treatment
process is the same as that for Ramtha. Plant capacity will be for an average
flow of 1,800 m3/day, and sufficient land exists to meet all future needs.
Aniara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh, and Kufrinja
1.03     A gravity sewer collection system will be constructed in each of
these four towns and the sewage will then be discharged into a trunk sewer
running in a southwesterly direction approximately ten kilometers from Ein
Janneh at an elevation of about 830 m. to the treatment plant site near
Kufrinja at an elevation of about 600m. The proposed treatment process will
consist of Imhoff tanks followed by trickling filters, secondary clarification
and filtration through a coarse soil media. The choice of this treatment
alternative is dictated by the shortage of land for stabilization ponds and is
the least-cost solution, taking into account energy and other considerations.
The effluent will be discharged into Wadi Tawaheen, a tributary of the Wadi
Kufrinja which drains into the Jordan Valley where the water is used for
irrigation. The initial plant capacity will be for an average flow of 1,800
m3/day. Land for plant expansion to double this capacity is available.



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Madaba
1.04     The general direction of flow of the sewage collection system will be
towards two trunk sewers running by gravity southeastwards on either side of
the ridge running through the center of the city. The two trunk sewers will
join at a point southeast of the city and from thence the flow will be carried
by a 600 mm main trunk sewer for about two km southeast to the sewage
treatment plant. Waste stabilization ponds will be used with the same process
as for Ramtha but for an average flow of 2040 m3/day.  Adequate land for
more than double the plant size is available.
Ma'an
1.05     The general slope of the land is towards the south and the east, and
the collection system will be designed to flow in this general direction to
the southeast corner of the city. From this point a 350 mm trunk sewer will
carry the sewage eastwards by gravity to the proposed treatment plant site
about three kn away. Treatment will be by stabilization ponds with the same
process as  for Ramtha.   The design average  flow will  be  780 m3/day and
adequate land will be reserved for future expansion.



- 37 -
HASIL!rlIE IaNG" C JORIDNI                            ANNE 7
Page 1 of 2
EI1 CITIES WMMk SJPLY AIND SEiaE PMGE
DETAILS OF WAE  SJl'f COMPONENIS
Anjara
Ajloun
Water Supply                                       Ein Jamied
Ctuponents           Rantia          Mafraq         Xufrinja          Madaba              Ma'an            Total
Water Mains
65 ma          7,000m                -          25,800m                                 -            32,800m
8U nm               -                -          20,050m           8,000m             200.            28,250m
100 mn          2,500m            1,450m          6,100.           5,350m             760m            16,160m
150 mn          4,700m                -           3,600m           1,450m           3,830m            13,580.
200 um          1,800m             450m             850m            3,750           4,250.            11,100m
250 nm            950.                -                -           1,150.             430m             2,530.
300 mm            650m             500m                -             350m           2,000.             3,500m
350                  -                -                -             240.                -               240m
400 mm               -            1,000B               -                                               1,000m
450.                 -                -          __-                 650.                -               650.
iuAL                17,600.           3,400.          56,400m          20,940.          11,470.           109,810m
Storage                  -           1,000m3              -          5,000n@           2,000a            8,000m3
(2 reservoirs)
Meters                2,250            2,000            2,250           2,500             1,000             10,000



- 38 -
HA9DfE  11Q  OF JORDAN                                  ANE 7
Page 2 of 2
EIQ  CrIES WI&R SUPPLY AMD SEWO         PaJECr
DEDIS OF SESma  amoE
Anjara
Aj loun
Sewer                                                Ein Jarmeh
Ccq,anents            Ramitia          Mafraq         Kcufrinja          Madaba              Malan            Total
Sewers
201) mn           41,600m            22,700m          31,200.          28,100m           12,950.           136,550m
250 unm                 -                 -              400m                -            2,800              3,200m
300 mn             3,500m            2,850m            2,800.           1,000m            3,200.            13,350m
400 mum             3,600m            2,860n                -           3,700.                 -            10,160.
500 mm               750D,              50m            1,850.          1,OOOm                 -             3,650m
600 mu              1,870m                             3,550m           1,450m                 -             6,870.
800 mm                  -             30.                                    -                 -             3,400m
*IUAL              51,320m           31,860.          39,800.          35,250.           18,950&           177_18m
Sewer laterals       3,600 Nos.        3,400 Nor.        2,900 Nos.       3,000 Nos.        1,200 Nos.        14,1D0 Nos.
(provided in project)
Sewae Treatuent
lype
Design flo  (um/day)   1,920             1,800            1,800            2,040               780              8,340
lDesig BODl)s load
(Kg/iay)              2,050              1,950            1,950            2,210               845              9,005
Design SS load (Kg/day) 2,150           2,050             2,050            2,310               945              9,505
Sewage pumping stations
1                 1                                                                      2



- 39 -                                                                   ANNEX 8
Pav    t   1
HASHMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
DETAILED ANUAL PROJECT INVESTMENT
(In JD thousands)
1S96                           I9oo                            1917                            194'h     1,         n,        is.
-MAI.    uAMM ICN    nlAL      inrAL    mUEmCI      (DIAL      LIrA.                 WMS.1ai     IniA: l   Ht:F(2    P7L         A intL    MOJRN     W.LL
-    -   -- -- -  -       - ---    -- ---                                                          -- ----- --
1XW   IIsrItl3ITI3             23.u1     53.b69    7h.70      3iell8     71.56    102U2b      23.01      5J u9      7b.D U             -               -      71.7U     th7.b    6S e5
SMAPAE2.                      [lu.3    387.37    554.10    221.,4    517.1        7138.b0     L38 53    J21.43    4u1.75      :I 7l      6.6 e      ' J35    554.10   3292 No    1o47.uu
S T.P.                         81.50     87.50     115Am      137.5u    1317.50    275.30     25.3       25.w'      su Ow                    -         -    250 wi    :5u .u      5w.UD
AM3A:
MTM OIsDIIhLTrI                32.bo7    7b.D3    108.90      43.59     o1.64     145.20     3Z.b1      76.43    I1U8.4          -          -          -    1Js.su    254 0       314I GU
SMPPAiE                       2IL.7'n    510.J0    129.W     291.60    eW0.40      972.0W    1E.25    425.25       61.SU      3b.45      85.05    U11.9)    129.08   1701.W    24Ju.W
S.T.P.                        122.50     2U2.50    25..       L92.50    192 S0   3ns.LO        35.w       5i.uo     70.08         -          -         -    350.0D8     350Uo     700 0a
AMJAA.LTC:
WATIR IISII83l                 82.20    191.0    274.01      109..0    255.74     365.14      82.1     191.108    274.uL         -          -          -    2 7.4U1    639. 3    sl]3.J5
S Okqka                       1b,2.s0    380 IU    543.08    217.20    56.80    71  00    135.75    310 75    452.50          27.15      b3.J5      90 50    543.08    Ub7.Lpo   36I1.0
S.T.p.                         qo0.j    210.70    301.W       141.D0    331.10    47J.08       25.tl,    wO.m0      8bo.W         -_    25b.0W                           .Aju   d,0.OO
nuaM:
uITOR DISTDUMMWO               73.35    171.15    2446.50     97.80     228.0      32b.u0      73.35    171.15    244J.           -                     -    244.50     570.50    hO.1O0
SAI3A8Z                      L6b.b2    272 56    389.40    155.70      363.44     519.20      97.35    227.15    324.50       19.47     45.i3    64 90    369.60    90b.90    390 U au
S.T.P.                       L3..22      13H.22    276.43    217.20    2tl7.20    434.40       39.0      39.49      78.91.        -          -          -    394 91    394.91    7H9 b6
94 All.
0I4T  DlIRIU7tl               (5. 19    145.11    207.30      82.92    193.48    276.40       62.19    145.11    240.30          -          -          -    2t7.JU    483.70       s.1.w
SD912                          66.60    155.40    222.CO      88.60     207.20    29.00        66.60    155.40    222 _.          -          -          -     MA2O.   538.08       740.08
S.T.P.                         85.00     85.00     170.08      65.08     85.08     170.0W         -          -          -         -                     -    170 08    170.u08       J.Auu
LEE)                         9008D.          -    500.00          -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -    900W            -    sOD.uO
f5R  A OPEL. ECAr.             10.0I     510.08    1on.o       7.50      67.50      75.08       7 50      7 50      75.00         -          -          -      I5s 0    225.00   ;_.J O
mnmN lNi s- musX     n        137b.52    264.78    66l.11     2.A48     331.32    572U1       106.87    1tO.UO     267.17      11.62     17.72      29 54    4961 9    744 3   1240 22
(II13 184 Pla)    2l16.71    3342.93   5957.u4   2322.0f.  4457.76   6779.to   1133.55   2473.25   3bOb.bO           U22.59    27b.20     34 79   6192 b9  10550 14  16743.OM
PIISICA,. qOrDTVIEs       217.75    451.81    t69.57      3.1 7u    b0b.3LS    910.85     10.1.67    J51.o2    513.5u      fl.34     61.613      9.9t    7u2 72   1L51.41   Z153.73
RIE a      nMb 5IE        2116.40    2B0.10    4ff.50    416.70    732.9'   L149.94    320.17    b0 b60    925.97         4b.28      9161    1U9.b9   OUI.55   1710 45   2712 0
T J0.86   s 4074.84   7123.71   3043.46    579.85   8840.N9  le S  o    31430.h7    5D.X7    I.9..6    409.24    598.49    7897.17 L17137 IL t                             6l8g.77



40                                              ANNEX 8
Ta=of 3
HASHEMtTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
LLtBL.CI.LS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERQ.E PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTtMATES
SUMMARY OF TOTAL PROJECT INVESTMENT
--JDinU MVtT6S--                                        --tb 3Ll(.Nt-
FtJ0L.2, AS A
t AL           I'ti(              'tAL                    UYA.          FrJulliN            'MAJ.              X uF TU,AL
WrAm  IfLSMLitfrl(Jl                10^.9u           2S4.10            363.uO                  2'J6.71          696..'V          995.70                      70
SEWIPOAF                            729.M)0         1701.uO           2430.O                  W999.o3         4'665.J           6665.44                      %
S.l' P.                             35u.w            35t.Uu            70W.utt                90.Lu4            96u.u4          1920.ub                      50
MI^RAU:
WmL  UISNlrtbVTIL                    76.70           17S.96            255 o5                  210 37           4,0.o7           7lt.24                      70
iE;;tAa2.                           554 10          1292.90           toL47 u                 1519.8          t546.4u          506t, 2,                    s70
25u W            250.O            5W.00                   6S5.14           68.74            171.49                      50
WaTEK  1tsnt,turIati                274.01           639.34           9L3.35                   751.59          1753.71          2505.30                      70
J3ERAL;L                            543.uu          .207.00          I&IO.W                   1489 44          3475.35          4964.79                      70
S. r.P.                             258.uo           602.00            b60.00                  707 o5          luSIt 27         2358.96                      70
'4ATEk DTSRILIrIUN                  !44.50            570.50            15.uO                  *.70.ou6        1504.67          2235.53                      70
Sh1jACZ                             389.40           90t.hO           i29b.W                  1068.i2          2492.Z7          3560.39                      70
S.-r.P.                             394.'l           394.91            789.61                 1083.22          12W33.22         21G6.43                      50
"MA AN:
W4TM IULTIbLtZrIcN                  207.30           4r83.70           491.00                  5'.a2           1326.76           1895.40                     70
SEsn3UC  _22.00   518.00  740 00         608 '4          1420.06          202'i 80                     70
s.r.P.                              170.IAJ           170.uO           440.UO                  4'u. 31          466.31           932.61                      5o
I.AN)                               900 0O                             900.uO                 2468 68                           2468.66
,C3(M  & OPLR. MIT:.                 25.WO           _25.tJ0           250 rx                   W.57            617.17           685.74                      90
mnlUlT-nVPJ SUPDtsS1O(J             4Yh6.t9          744.13           1240 :2                 L360 76          _041 L5           3401.91                     60
- ------  ---------  - ------      --------         -----------            - ---------
~is1: tDr
(ML  1984 Pr.1CES)         6190.59 :05$D.14                  16743.04                16966.97         ;193..;0          45925.78                     63
P'YSI.AL arNIItCE9NIW           702.72           1451.01          Z153.73                 1927.55          38)60.1u          5907.65                      67
Mo. tMNCt9:1ES                 1001.55           *710.45          0712.00                 2747 23          4091.7_           7436.95                     63
TAL PICrJ T
OST                         7897.17          3711.u60        _608.77                 &1661 75          37610.o2         59272.36                      63
.~~ ~                                                           -



-41 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
COST ELEMENTS BY CONTRACTS
Estimated Cost
Contract                Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
----- (JD '000)           ------  (US  000)                -
1.  Mafraq WD & S           844.9    1,942.5  2,787.4        2,317.5    5,328.2  7,645.7
2.  Mafraq STP              313.1       309.9    623.0          858.8      850.0  1,708.8
3. Ramtha WD & S          1,122.3    2,580.2  3,702.5        3,078.4    7,077.4 10,155.8
4.  Ramtha STP              438.4       433.9    872.3        1,202.5    1,190.2  2,392.7
5.  Anjara, etc. WD & S  1,093.3    2,514.2  3,607.5         2,998.9    6,896.4  9,895.3
6.  Anjara, etc. STP        323.2       746.2  1,069.4          886.5    2,046.8  2,933.3
7.  Madaba WD & S           848.1    1,950.4  2,798.5        2,326.3    5,349.9  7,676.2
8.  Madaba STP              494.7       489.5    984.2        1,356.9    1,342.7  2,699.6
9.  Ma'an WD & S            572.9    1,318.3  1,891.2         1,571.5    3,616.0  5,187.5
10.  Ma'an STP               209.0       207.4    416.4          573.3      568.9  1,142.2
11.  Water meters              11.5      102.4    113.9           31.5      280.9    312.4
12.  Operating Equipment      17.3       153.5    170.8           47.5      421.0    468.5
13.  Construction
Supervision           639.7       963.2  1,602.9       1,754.7    2,642.0  4,396.7
14.  Land                    968.8          -      968.8      2,657.4           -   2,657.4
Total                  7,897.2   13,711.6 21,608.8       21,661.7   37,610.4 59,272.1
Note: WD & S - Water distribution and sewerage.
STP    - Sewerage treatment plant.



- 42 -
ANNEX 9
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT TABLE
Proiect Element                    ICB      LCB     Other     N.A.      Total Cost
-(USS Millions)
Water Distribution & Sewerage    40.55       -        -         -         40.55
(22.00)                                (22.00)
Sewage Treatment Plant            .0.88      -        -        -          10.88
(4.66)                                 (4.66)
Meters & Operating Equipment       0.78      -        -         -          0.78
(0.70)                                 (0.70)
Construction Supervision            -        -       4.40      -           4.40
(2.64)                (2.64)
Land                                -        -       2.66      -           2.66
Total                         52.21      -                 -         =2.2
(27.36)    -      (2.64)      -        (30.00)
Five contracts for construction of water distribution pipes and sewerage and
fi-ve for construction of sewage treatment plants will be awarded. Procurement
of water meters and operating equipment will be divided into two contracts,
and a margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid pric_.. of imported
goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will
be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Consideration could be given to retain
the present design consultants for construction supervision on terms and
conditions agreeable to the Bank.   Should new consultants be engaged, this
will be done in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 43 -                    ANNEY. 10
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year                   Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                    in Quarter                 at End of Quarter
1984
Third quarter                      85                             85
Fourth quarter                     45                            130
1985
First quarter                     820                            950
Second quarter                    850                          1,800
Third quarter                     900                          2,700
Fourth quarter                    950                          3,650
1986
First quarter                   2,150                          5,800
Second quarter                  2,200                          8,000
Th:Ird quarter                  2,250                         10,250
Fourth quarter                  2,210                         12,460
1987
First quarter                   2,300                         14,760
Second quarter                  2,250                         17,010
Third quarter                   2,200                         19,210
Fourth quarter                  2,480                         21,690
1988
First quarter                      950                        22,640
Second quarter                  1,000                         23,640
Third quarter                    1,050                        24,690
Fourth quarter                     950                        25,640
1989
First quarter                    1,000                        26,640
Second quarter                     950                        27,590
Third quarter                     850                         28,440
Fourth quarter                     750                        29,190
1990
First quarter                      500                        29,690
Second quarter                     310                        30,000



- 44 -                                ANNEX 11
HASHEMTh KImnMI   OF JORfXN
E=r CrrEES WALTER SUPPLY AND SEBWCUE PRWWEr
Project Implaientation Schedule
1   1984        1985        1986   1   1987          1988        L989
ndj fmamj jasondj famjjascndj ftmnjjasondjfmantjjasondjfmanj jasondjfmamjjasaid
Ramthal 
Water Distribu-
tion and Sewrs DDMDDDD---              _        O                  _       U
Sewage Treat-
ient Plant      D IXD--
Kafraq
Water Distribu-
tion and Sewers DumIoDD-rr _         _        _        _       _       _
Sewage Treat-
ment Plant      DWD
Anjara ,Aj loun,Ein
JaTmeh & Kufrinja
Water distribu-
tion and Sewers                                                                (
Sewage Treat-
ment Plant  =_
Madaba
Water Distribu-
tion and Sewers                  O      ID     DD                    DuI:__ _ 
Sewage Treat-
ment Plant         IDi'DC        TU        _ I     (
Water Distribu-
and Sewers      DWDODwt----     U     DU
Sewage Treat-
ment Plant       DMDDDD---
Sewer Conmect-
D - Design
T - Tender
s - Bid Evaluation
a - Contract Aaard
X - Construction
C - Testing and GDmissioning



- 45 -
ANNEX 12
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING CRITERIA FOR WATER AUTHORITY OPERATIONS
1984              1990
I. Technical
Water produced (MCM/yr)
Water sold (MCM/yr):
Domestic
Industrial
Bulk Water
Unaccounted-for water (%)
Water Surcharged for Sewerage (MCM/yr)
No. of water connections
No. of sewerage connections
No. of new water connections
made during the year
No. of new sewerage connections
made during the year
Water quality (average):
Total dissolved solids
Hardners
Nitrates
pH
II. Financial and Institutional
Average bulk tariff (JD/mr3)
Average retail tariff (JD/m3)
Sewerage surcharge tariff (JD/m3)
Debt service coverage
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water sold (JD)
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water surcharged for sewerage (JD)
Accounts receivable at end of year
No. of employees:
Water
Sewerage
Total
No. of employees in training program



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE WATER AUTHORITY
(TENTATIVE)
Board
of the
Water
Authority
President
Water                                                                                      tary
Councils                                                                              .Generall
Water Supply     Sewerage       Finane ial        .       .ter                        .Projet
i   tia       wNI unu             >~~~~~~.    Administraticu    M=wgnEtxe     Plamingntt
operaticms     OperaticmB     ak Accoizttirtpemtai
Northern       Cetral 
Regioaal       Regional        Regianal
office         Office          Office



- 47 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CURRENT WATER AND SEWERACE TARIFFS
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE AMMAN
Water Tariffs (Urban Areas)
Bulk Water Supply               -  JD .085 per m3
Metered Retail Consumption per month:
0-  5 m3                       -  JD .100 per m3
6 -15 m3                       -  JD .120  "
16 -25 m3                       -  JD .300  "
Over 25 m3                      -  JD .400  "  '
Universities                    -  JD .300  "
Connection fee                  -  JD2.000
Water Tariffs (Rural Areas)
Water Distribution Points       -  JD .160 per m3
By Tankers:
5 -  6 m3 capacity             -  JD 2.500 per tanker
10 - 12 "     "                 -  JD 3.500 to JD 5.500 per tanker
Distribution of water at desert points is free.
Sewerage Tariffs
Sewer Surcharge                 -  JD .030 per m3
Contribution to construction   -   4Z per annum of rental value over
20 years
Connection fee                  -  25Z of rental value



- 48 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
AMMAN OPERATIONS
Water Tariffs
Metered Retail Consumption per billing cycle (3 months):
1 -  20 m3                     -  JD .150 per m3
21 -  40 m3                     -  JD .250  "
41 - 100 m3                     -  JD .400  "
Over 100 m3                     -  JD .50C
Sewerage Tariffs
Sewerage Surcharge                       -  JD .030 per m3
Contribution to Construction             -   4% per annum of rental value over
20 years
Connection fee                           -  25X of rental value



- 49 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 8
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
General
Detailed income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements
were prepared separately covering the different parts of WA's water supply and
sewerage  operations and are available  in the  project  files.   The  income
statements for the proposed project and the consolidated income statement,
balance sheet and cash flow statement of overall WA operations have been
included in the report. The same assumptions apply to all the different parts.
Income Statement
Revenues from water and sewerage tariffs are assumed to be increased
to meet over the projection period the proposed financial covenants, i.e.,
water tariffs would be established so as to cover operating expenses, debt
service, or depreciation, whichever is higher and working capital increases
and provide 5% of investment cost beginning in FY87 and 10% of the investment
costs  beginning  in  FY89;  sewerage  tariffs  would  cover  operating  and
maintenance expenses and debt service.
All operating expenses are assumed to be subject to the following
inflationary increases: 1984 7.5%, 1985 7%, 1986 and thereafter 6%.  Salaries
and wages are based on WSC's salaries and wages scales prevailing in 1983.
Adjustments have been made in the number of staff because of the future
increases in WA's activities and salaries were adjusted to allow for general
salary adjustments and for inflation. The quantity of energy and chemical was
projected on the basis of operating requirements.
Routine maintenance was estimated to average about 1% of fixed assets
values relating to the water activities and .5% of fixed assets values for
sewerage. General and administrative expenses were projected in line with the
expanded activities. Assets were depreciated on a straight-line basis which
averages at 3% of fixed assets for water works and at 2.5% for sewerage works.
Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet
The Government's contributions consist of contributions to WA's
investment program which are included in the draft five year plan (1981-1985),
for the construction of water works and sewerage to be operated by the WA.
Customer's contributions include the amount collected in line with current



- 50 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 8
legislation which provides for payment over a period of 20 years of 4% of the
annual rental value payable at time of connecting to sewage.  In addition,
some minor contributions referred to in WA's regulation as application fees
are included hereunder. Accounts payable include two months of consumable
operating materials.   Inventories are assumed to be at 3 months value of
supplies of materials, chemicals and fuel and accounts receivables are assumed
to average to about 3 months of sales.
The onlent proceeds of the Bank loan are assumed to carry an interest
rate of 10% p.a., a commitment charge of 0.75% on the undisbursed balance, and
would be repayable over 12 years after an initial grace period of 5 years.
Other loans made to the WA by KfW and USAID are assumed to be repaid over 20
years after an initial 10 year grace period and to carry an interest rate of
62 per annum. A loan from the Islamic Bank is projected to be for 15 years
including 5 years of grace and bears interest at 3S p.a.
Interest during construction and the Bank front end fee will be
capitalized and transferred to fixed assets in operation at the time of
commissioning. During the construction period, interest payments to the
various lenders will be made by the Government and added to the onlent
proceeds of the various loans.



- 51 -                                          ANNEX 15
Page 3 of B
IlASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
___________________________
EIGHT CITIES WATEK SUPPLY & SEWERACE PROJECT
--------------------------------------------
IxNCOtE AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
PROJECT AREA
____________
*MATER OPERATIONS
1982       1963        1984       1985        1986       1987        1988       1989        1990
WATER PRODUCED (nCM)                3.77       4.00        4.Z4       4.49        4.74       4.93        5.12       5.33        5.53
LOSSES (PERCENT)                      41         41          41         41          41         40          39          38         37
WATER SOLD (MCM)                    2.Z3       2.36        2.50       2.64        2.79       2.96        3.12       3.29        3.48
NO. OF CONNECTIONS               23.730      24,560     25.420      26.310     27,230    28,180    29,170    30,14u           31,200
AVERACE RATE (JD/CM)                .103       .106        .116       .117        .173       .193        .195        .273       .305
---------- JD MILLIONS ----------
REVENUES
WATER SALES                          .Z3        .25         .29         .31        .48         .57        .l          .90       1.ub
EXPENSES
WATER PURCHASES                      .06         .u6          -           -          -           -          -           -           -
SALARIES                             .11        .12         .13        .14         .14         .15        .15         .16        .16
POWER                                .04        .05         .05        .06         .06         .06        .06         .06        .07
CHEMICALS                            .01        .01         .01        .01         .01         .(1,       .01         .01        .u1
MAINTENANCE                          .03        .03         .U3         .03        .04         .04        .04         .04        .04
ADMINISTRATION                       .01        .01         .01         .01        .01         .01        .01         .01        .01
TOrAL EXPENDITURES                   .26        .28         .23         .25        .Z6         .Z7        .27         .28        .Z9
INCOME BEFURE DEPRECIATION          (.03)      (.03)        .u6        .06         .22         .30        .34         .62        .77
LESS: DEPRECIATION                   .06        .06         .06        .06         .Ue        .Ue         .Z5         .28        .30
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST              (.09)      (.09)        .00           -        .16        .24         .09         .34        .47
LESS: INTEREST                       .03        .03         .03         .04        .06         .10        .21         .38        .36
NET INCOME (LOSS)                   (.12)      (.12)       (.03)      (.04)        .10         .14       (.12)       (.04)       .11
.. ._....._,,_ ,,,_,,,, ........  .......   ........ ,,........  ........  ..... _.._,..   ........
OPERATING RATIO                      .72        .74        1.00       1.00        1.51        1.73       1.17        1.60       1.hO
NOTE:TOTALS MAY DIFFER DUE TO ROUNDING



- 52 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 4 -
HASMEMIETE KINGDOII OF JuRDAI;
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
LNCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
PROJECT AREA
SEWERAGE OPERATIONS
[986       1989       1990
SE'JEK CONNECTIONS                                         6,300      13,049    20,280
RILLABLE SEWAGE (MCNi)                                        .84       1.77       2.84
AVERAGE kATE JD/CM                                           .250       .459       .518
----------JD MILLIONS----------
REVENUES
OPERATING KEVENUE                                             .21        .81       1.47
OTHER INCOME                                                  .17        .22        .22
TOTAL REVENUES                                                .38       L.03       1.69
EXPeNSES
SALARILS                                                      .11        .12        .12
POWER                                                         .01        .o1        .01
CHEM ICAL.S                                                   .01        .01        .01
MAINTENANCE                                                   .02        .03        .04
ADNINISTRATION                                                .01        .01        .01
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                            .16        .18         .19
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATIOi                                    .22        .65       1.50
LESS: DEPRECtATION                                            .25        .46        .47
LNCOME BEFORE INTEREST                                      (.U3)        .39       1.03
INTEREST                                                      .16        .55        .80
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                            (.19)      (.16)        .23
-....... a  ....... a   ...O
DPCRATING RATIO                                               .93       1.61       2.56
NOTE:TOTALS MAY DIFFER DUE TO ROUNDIXG



- 53                                           ANNUl 15
PaRe 5 of 8
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
--------------------------------------------
INCUME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
--------------------------------
WATER AUTHORITY CONSOLIOATEu
____________________________
1982       1983       1984        1985       1986        1987       1988       1989        199U
WATER PRODUCED (MCM)              59.97      75.40      81.14       86.79      92.b4       99.43     105.02     111.13      118.25
LOSSES (PERCENT)                     46         41          39         38          37         37         35          34         33
TANKER SALES(MCM)                  3.83       2.11        2.20       2.30       2.41        2.52       2.b4        2.77       2.91
RETAIL SALES 0(CM)                32.67      44.51      49.42       53.56      58.U7       62.88      67.97      73.40       79.34
BILLABLE SEWAGE (MCH)              7.88       9.61      11.59       15.56      18.Z9       24.61      31.24      38.19       45.99
NO. OF CONNECTIONS-WATER        171,080   Z18,330   231,070   Z41.340    251.950   261,150   274,73U   289,640   3U5,050
NO. OF CONNECTlONS-SEWER         24,650     30,030     36,200    43,340       51.25U     67,460      88.900   111,949    137,480
TANKER RATE(JD/CN)                 .065       .070        .078       .U86        .091       .096       .102        .107       .111
AYE.W4TER RETAIL(JD/CH)            .208       .239        .264       .267       .373        .383       .408        .41b       .427
AVE.SEWER SURCHARGE(JU/CM)         .U30       .030        .043       .075       .132        .164       .205        .Z25       .248
AVE.SEU.RATE(JU/CH)                .201       .176        .230       .212       .242        .244       .275        .273       .282
---------- JD MILLIONS ----------
REVENUES
TANKER SALES                        .25         .15        .17        .20         .Z2        .Z4         .Z7        .3U        .33
RETAIL SALES                       6.80      10.64      13.06       14.28      21.64       24.07      27.76      30.54       33.90
SEWERAGE SURCHARGE                  .24        .29         .50       1.17       Z.41        4.U3       6.41       8.60       11.41
OTHER INCOME                       1.66       1.81        Z.b2       2.b3        Z.55       2.56       2.83        2.52       2.31
GOVT.SUBSIDY                       l.b1       2.07        2.50       2.33       Z.35        2.41       2.Z5        2.30       2.35
TOTAL REVENUES                    10.55      14.96       18.85      20.bO      29.17       33.31      39.52      44.26       50.30
EXPENSES
WATER PURCHASES                     .06         .06          -          -           -          -           -          -           -
SALARIES                           4.b8       5.57        6.15       6.67       7.36        8.42       9.42       10.43      11.51
ENERGY                             3.00       3.43       4.06        4.57       5.50        7.15       8.80      10.68       12.88
CHEMICALS                           .14         .18        .Z3        .25         .35        .45         .60        .77        .97
MAINTENANCE                        1.51       2.12       2.40        2.60       2.81        3.13       3.63        4.50       4.96
ADMINISTRATION                      .65        .81         .95       1.02        1.23       1.38       1.58        1.78       2.03
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                10.34      1Z.17       13.79      15.11       17.15      20.53      24.03       28.16      32.35
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION          .21       2.79        5.06       5.49      11.92       12.78      15.49      16.10       17.95
LESS:DEPRECIATION                  2.64       3.17        3.47       3.78        5.88       6.98       7.95        9.56       9.90
INCOME BEFoRE INTEREST            (2.43)      (.38)       1.59       1.71       6.04        5.80       7.54       6.54        8.05
LESS: INTEREST                     1.52       1.82        2.74       2.76        5.76       6.09       8.10        8.41       8.48
NET IhCOME (LOSSES)               (3.95)    (2.20)       (1.15)     (1.05)        .Z8       (.Z9)       (.56)    (1.87)       (.43)
_.._..____......  .. _......  ...._._.... _____.............  ..... .....__ ........  ._._.. ....  .......... _ .............. ._w, _
OPERATING RATIO                     .81         .97       1.09        1.09       1.26       1.21        1.23       1.17        1.19
NOTE:TOTALS MAY DIFFER DUE TO ROUNDiNG



- 54 -                                ANNEX I5
- 54 -                      ~~~~~Page ~6 of 8
IMSIUMITE i;Mi (UF JORMN
noir crrES uAm  SUEPLY & SBSAGE wRwrrs
SxCE AND AW rlCTI    OF FUilS
WATER AtlUrrY cSULIDM
i982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     [989      1990
FISCOI. YEAR ENDIND  DEECDIE 31
S IUR RL U RJN6
NEr OPERATIN  INtX          (z.43)    (.38)    1.59      1.71     6.J4A    5.f0      7.54     6.54      8.05
AID:DEPREIATtUN              2.64     3.17     3.47      3.78     5.88     6.98      7.9r     9.56      9.90
lSDAL IrRANL mCE,S            .21     2.79     5 0b      5 49    [1.9Z    [2.78    15.49    16. 10    17.95
WaV QiTrrY CIRiUWmlN         5.46     3.03    12.18    L8 72    53.73    12.76    10.53    10.38        4.82
cUsrmnn CQNUIBLTI             .22      .32       .54      ..5      .ff       .96     1.94      1.25      .73
LMANS                        2.21     7.07    12.29    L5.32    17.00    14.24       6.62      2.86     1.78
L'flfn [OMAE                    -        -        -         -    39.22      4.56     7.98     4.56      3.48
TAL s5URCES OF FUNUS         8.11    13.21     30.1)7    4U.18   122.82    45.3U    42.55    35.13    28.77
AYPLICATIOI or FUIS
CAPITAL. EXPENDIIURES        3.67     9.08    26.31    36.u9   113.49    34.81    27.54    19.0        11.41
DJCREASE (DECKEASE)
IN WOaKENC CAPITrL           2.51      .81      (.45)    ( 90)    .@11      .21       .71      1 37      .A
DEBr SERVICE
DurEREsr                     1.52     1.82      2.74     2.76     5.76      6.09     8.10     8.41      8.48
AMOMZ1AThMN                  .41      1.50      1.'7     1.o3     3.56      4.19     6.40      b.35     8.32
IUThL                        1.93     3.32      4.21     4.39     9.32     10.28    14.50    14.76      &6.80
TUTAI. APPLICATION OF FLND   8.11    13.21    .30.07    40.18   122.82    45.30    42.55    35.&6    28.77
.M..       S.       .i _a _.
DEBT SERVICE  NVENAOE (TIM   .11        84      1.20     1.25      1.28     1.24     1.07      l.u9     L.07
.'NCE:fiDIS KAY DIFFER WE 10 ROUNDING
1/ Includes assets of JD 65.36 million and the associated
debt taken over from JVA.



-55 -                              ANNEX 15
Page 7 of 8
HASHEIlVE IGNQ    OF JlRLAN
za CTIES wrTE2t suPPLY 4 SUULZ PROJE
fALANCE SHEEr
tJAfEl A tllflRTY -:WELID1EA
1932     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990
-------JD H1LIONS-----------
YEAR BENDD  I2CCEBIR 31
ASSETS
CEIQ5S FL    ASSS-WAITA     92.38     97.77    W5.93   117.36    191.13   214.52    Z54.31    281.35    29U.41
LESS:DEPRNEIATIN-WATER      14.72    17.60    15.72      19.10    24.55    30.32    35.73    42.87       50.28
NEr FI3  ASSE1S4JATER       77.66    80.17    90.21    98.26    166.58   184.20    218.58   238.48   240.13
CHOSS FLXE ASSETS-SEi.       8.97    11.53    14.13    lb..38    17.08    45.u5    58.b6    92.9        f 95.J9
LESS:DEPRECIATION-SEW.       2.13      2.42     2.77      3-17      3.60     4.81      6.35     8.77     11.26
NET FIXEDASSETS-SBI.         6.84      9.11     11.36     12.91    13.48    40.64    52.31    84.17      84.13
UOUC IN PIVCRESS             14.99    16.12    26.67     49.98     88.70     71.55    45.09      2.7b     2.66
LUrAL FIXED ASSErS          99.49   105.40   128.24    161.15   268.76   296.59   315.98   325.41    32b.94
a S  ASSQS
CASH                          2.46     2.19      3.35     3.46      3.27      2.94     2.41      2.63     2S94
INVEMWRI5                    2.10      2.64     2.71      2.82      2.90     3 U2      3.12     3.73      3.o6
aMOUNrs RECEIVABLE           4.14      4.69     4.40      3.95      4.52     4.97      5.d1      6.47     b.93
1TA.L CUtlR   ASSErS         8.70     10.23    10.47    10.24      10.68     10.94    11.33    L2.83      13.73
lUTAL ASSEIS                108.19    115.63   038.71    171.39    279.44   307.53    327.31    338.24   340.67
UJABUIMar
EQ3l1Y                      70.20    73.23    85.42    104.14    157.87    170.64    181.16   191 54   196.36
DEFWRt EQUMr                24.67     24.b7    24.t7     24.67    24.7       24.67    24.67    24.67      24.67
REAINED EARNDCS             (13.01)  (15.20)   (16.35)  (17.40)  (17.12)  ([7.41)  (17.97)   (19.84)  (20.27)
CUSMIR IaxI[UrI]N6            1.73     2.04      2.58     3.23      4.18      5.14     7.U8      8.33     9106
TOTl. EQl                   83.60    84.74    96.31   114.64   169.bO   183.04   194.94   204.69   209.82
UIC TER DEBT                21.33    26.94    37.60    49.36    101.39   113.80    112.04   121.11    t7.l6b
CURREw sABDrns
.O:IMfS PAYABLE              1.76     2.48      3.16      3.83     4.27      4.31     4.00      4.12      4.47
UFRENr  RTLRZES               1.50     1.47      1.63     3.56      4.19      6.J9     6.35      8.32      9.33
IUFL CLCUENr LIAB.IIMES      3.26      3.95      4.79     7.39      8.46    10.70    10.35    12.44       U.80
10TAL LIABlLITES            108.19   115.63   L38.71   171.39   279.45    307.53   327.32   338.25   340.68
ClRBEhT RATIO                 2.67     2.59      2.18      1.39     1.26      1.02     1.10      1.03       .99
DEBT EQUTY RATIO           20:80    24:76    28:72    30:70    37:63    38:62    38:62    37:63    36:64
rVTE:rVuILS MY DIFFER IIE CM  RJII}I



- 56 -
ANNEX 15
Page 8 of 8
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TEST OF FINANCIAL COVENANTS
WATER SUPPLY
1985        1987         1989
----- (JD Million)         --
Income before Depreciation                         3.73         8.54        9.23
Debt Service                                       3.02         6.90        6.84
Working Capital Requirements                        -            .14          .92
Available for Investment (A)                        .71         1.50         1.47
Average Annual Investment (B)                     19.67        17.08       11.66
(A) as a X of (B)                                   3            8          12



- 57 -
ANNEX 16
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Al     Water Sector Study - World Bank Report No. 4699-JO (Green Cover), Water
Supply and Sewerage Division, Regional Projects Department, EMENA,
OCtober 1983
A2     Main findings of Advance Tabulations:  Housing and Population Census
1979 - Department of Statistics, Jordan, March 1981
A3     Water Authority Law (Temporary Law No. 34 of 1983) - English translation
Bl     Feasibility Study of the Municipal Water Distribution Improvements and
Sewerage and Stormwater Drainage Systems in Madaba - James M.
Montgomery Inc./Brown and Coldwell, March 1983
B2     Feasibility Study of the Municipal Water Distribution Improvemen.s and
Sewerage and Stormwater Drainage Systems in Ma'an - James M. Montgomery
Inc./Brown and Coldwell, March 1983
B3     Feasibility  Study  of  Water  Distribution,  Stormwater  and  Sanitary
Sewerage Systems in Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun and Ein Janneh -
Engineering Science Inc./Jouzy & Partners, July 1983
C1     Engineering Working Papers
C2     Financial Working Papers



IS R A E L                                        5 Y R I A N  A R A 8
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E4               P    U B   
X    X  tR          f      V   M   "~~~~~~~~A  A    N
JORDAN
1t                ) DFAO fi                 \EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT
(-- l  ! , JX  v ) WATER SOURCES AND  SUPPLIES TO MUNICIPAL SYSTEMS
~ I;             ./                           S  PJ.. ^s,r( elpkovues CrlL
sr~~~~ ~ ~             ~ ~~~~         ~       ~     ~~~         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R,q hoe u,e /.,  s , t 11'
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 ___ iod
R --
I  PSe h- op,-o t
A j  3 A                                                k 
:s  4~~~~ OEk WISh
lx~                               ----- F~-  ---, -w-t



-O    1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x
XL. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JORDA N
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
RAMtHA WATER SUPPLY DISRIISUIION SYSTEM
AND SEWERAGE
PROJE_(T COMPONE NIS
P.ol.ci Ama Bou.doay
Sewe. I/ .ins and Mansholes
P.opos.d Wat.. P.po.
EX151ING
Wa:., P.pwIl.n.,s
B.I/It-up A.qas
OccupD.d le.Sm (.nse'
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O *                                             L
.-~~~~~~ , ..~~~~~~f _ u._..- _ 5U_S 4.  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *tam1



IRRD 17s0
J O R D A N         ~ISrO '7W
JORDAN                       nwuaMm
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MAFRAO WA7ER SUPPLY DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEM AND SEWERAGE
P_1OC I Cq91PONFN15
f1.V& Area SOunrdav5
See.., I n  and iacholes
P-powed Wage. P.p-s
V     Poposed Peossure ftodun4 Vale
*     P-oposed P.poqg Slo. .on
I I   Proposed Wale, R."IDr.o
I k mlSI I NGr
T ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ae 11151 NC                   s
7                            ~~~~~~~~~~Walo  Praveirres
oprss,s   Red.c.ng Valve
Ikil 511 Areas
nlc,.~pd TUrr,lore lInfenl
(0   lo(   "0   300   dOD   50
"S.I h.. flre  jrIw0C tr
90        a .   he    . ,d-.
..-f     . L  D . .are  P . dIn
g.vV..F     ..r o&f ,e    ^
VAon . ,o.  I Fn-- -.
eof ft V-now. &Weo.
a.-  / .   .d rw of
_,_
its.    _VAt AA-                _ 
4IUIA 
> a
(~~~_'AD



_________   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iR 17964
FE&RUARY 1904
JORDAN                                                             ALU     N     I   AJLOUN  AND EIN JANE
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                                           ECT                                                          ,   ,/
AJLOUN, EIN JANNEH, KUfRINJA, AND ANJARA                                                                                  =/ '
PROJECT COMPONENTS           .                     \
- .. S.  Troamn o. n i W            ,~"                          -     .  ;
T-         - PsRsd   rN   r   .nr  *    eL -                                                  jS                                                                                     X__4
P,    e AO  boAnd- y                               '  1\
5-e, L- .,d M-W.,                                                                                                                                                                                            - --o-rh -. 
P,.' o . PYF--T R.du6,,v 'lob.
-Pmg Sw -YE
Bu-vi.Y A,-r
P..... .                            d' L.m
Ail- .n,d0 EEuYJ.-h
KUFRINJA                                                                                                                                                                                        "NANJARA



_______________________ -  -   -                   ~~~~IERD 17965
_J 0  R  D  A  N.                        RbUACrY 19ee
E-                                                          EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
j  1  0  _S_  \   MADA                    >s                MADABA WATER SUPPLY  DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM  AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Sewer Lime and Manrales
V   Proposed Prssure Rsducag YV.
-    --    ~ ~ ~ ~        Pr~oposed Water R.-erv,,,
E XISTING:
- Water Pipelne
Bu. u,,p A-
O-r,i.d T-rirari. (ingo)
<00                                                                                                                                                          Mo 200 3s00
|        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 \t 1.1rnt--z .1@
, t,    "'1                                                                                                                              X\1  .................   X \ I <1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,    n    0 0   C n
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e C," Ibre nerd Sen C n
anlr renn  Inle Aceu



IRRD 17%66
FEBURUARY IQUJ
JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT
MA'AN WATER SUPPLY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT COMPONENTS
ProIect AreO  Boundory
S. e, L,nes and Monholes
Proposed WIter P/pes                                                  I                                                            - 
EXISTING-                                                            /
Wa   r P.oes
Built-up Areas                                                                  /
Wadis                                                                        //
Occupied Terriories (rsedl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
sA -d 0 .Fd, n- ,i-d bi
rnom. -  T r .* thin k .I
ond i d r~et Ft.,,                        /
cew. rd wr bz  .
rht m .eP. d n    ff.
&N.orl F-   6_DO                                     i-                                                                      irf -5            -     ir - 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,-   on$V ~3t B( R IAN ARA B ,/
otovbr-ofn -Vfj-j   5                                                                                                                   RE PUBLIIC    1      Tt
_dv' vrL ci       do;O
D~td Tin.                                                                                                               __P-___-____c___V_l_______A______
5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~MET ERS ](
AtA'AN  g   (        <~~~~~~~~   O~  100  700  300  400  50Q  6OO                                    -Jr (?    DAN \                    n
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                              V
3r, - In k.iO
or                                                                                                                      3?..       jiA  A  RA B  I A'
o'.nf 500     Crvfc.                                                        ICO                                              _
*          Road                                                                       METE'Or SSaAmb,                           3--'        1      3r       3



