Document of
The World Bank
FI LE 00PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reiport No. P-3t92-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE XINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 26, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoirmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983          January 1984
Currency Unit                                  Jordan Dinar                  JD
US $1.00                                         JD 0.363                   0.377
JD 1.000                                         US$2.74                   $2.65
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDI=$2.74
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWSA        =                     Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
EGMC         =                    East Ghor Main Canal
JVA         =                     Jordan Valley Authority
NPC                               National Planning Council
NRA         =                     Natural Resources Authority
USAID       =                     United States Agency for International
Developulent
WA           -                    Water Authority
WSC          =                    Water Supply Corporation
r



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RASIEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower;                      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary;                   Water Authority (WA).
Amount.                        US$30 million equivalent.
Terms.                          15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms;                Same as the Bank loan.  The WA will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description;                 The project would improve water supply service
and provide new sewerage service in the cities
of Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Janneh,
Kufrinja, Madaba and Ma'an. It would include:
(i) construction of about 110 km of trunkc and
distribution water mains, 8,000 m3 of reser-
voir storage and supply of water meters; (ii)
construction of about 177 km of trunk and
collection sewers, 14,000 house laterals, 4
waste stabilization pond systems, Imhoff tanks
and trickling filters, one sewage pumping
station and force mains; (iii) supply of
operating equipment; and (iv) consultant
services for supervising the construction
contracts. The project will follow through the
institutional development efforts of a previous
Bank loan and of the USAID for which adequate
funds have been provided. The main benefi-
ciaries of the project would be the low and
middle-income families of the eight project
cities. The Water Authority (executing agency)
has good experience with the construction and
operation of water supply and sewerage systems,
but has less experience with water and sewage
treatment. While there is a risk of delay in
constructing the sewerage component and. of
inadequate operation of the sewage treatment
plants, this risk is minimized through the use
of experienced consultants, progress monitoring,
the use of simple treatment processes, and the
available institutional development assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost*;                                   Local       Foreign       Total
-… ($ Millions) ---------
Water Supply                                       2.50         5.83         8.33
Sewerage and Sewage Treatment Plant               10.59        20.44        31.03
Meters and equipment                               0.07         0.62         0.69
Construction supervision                           1.36         2.04         3.40
Land                                               2.47          -           2.47
Base Cost                                     16.99        28.93       45.92
Physical Contingencies                             1.93         3.98         5.91
Price Contingencies                                2.75         4.69         7.44
Total Cost                                    21.67       37.60        59.27
Interest and other charges
during construction                               -           6.42         6.42
Total Financing Required                 21.67        44.02        65.69
Financing Plan;
Proposed World Bank loan                            -          30.00        30.00
Government loans and contribution                 19.98        14.02        34.00
Funds from operations                              1.69          -           1.69
Total Financing                          21.67        44.02        65.69
Estimated Disbursements;  Bank FY   1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
------------------$ Million---
Annual                           0.1   3.6   8.8   9.2   3.9   3.6   0.8
Cumulative                       0.1   3.7  12.5  21.7  25.6  29.2  30.0
Staff Appraisal Report;   No. 4972a-JO, dated April 24, 1984
* Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the
project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR AN
EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of US$30.0 million equivalent to
help finance an Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project in Jordan.  The
A          loan would be for a 15-year period, including 3 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The Government would relend the proceeds of the
proposed loan to the Water Authority (WA) under the same terms as the proposed
loan.
F'ART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A riport entitled "Jordan - Review of the Five-Year Plan"
(No. 4129-JO, dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1983. An economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its
findings have been included in the present text. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditioinally service and trade-oriented economy.  It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in developing
manufacturing production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries, expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians working
abroad, and substantial levels of foreign aid.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71, and the oil
boom in the region after 1973 created a climate conducive to sustained and
rapid economic growth during 1975-82, resulting in an average annual GDP
growth of over 10 percent in real terms. In 1982, GNP per capita reached
$1,692. The upsurge of the economy was due to; (a) the rapid growth of the
mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the sharp increase in construction,
particularly in housing and large public works; and (c) favorable external
factors, including booming conditions in the Gulf countries. While rainfed
agriculture suffered from a severe drought during the 1976-79 period and more
recently in 1981, vegetable and fruit production in the irrigated areas
increased significantly.
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a large
chronic deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor
services increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
(No. P-3072-JO) for the Sixth Education Loan which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 29, 1983.



- 2 -
1981. This growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and vegetables
in neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods and a sharp
increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services. Jordanian
goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets because of
the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements, the relatively
good quality of the products, enterprising marketing and the favorable
geographical location. Although the growth in the volume of imports was
slower than that of exports, the resource gap increased in current terms from
$560 million in 1975 to about $2,318 million in 1981. These trade deficits,
however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad.
As a result, Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained within
reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest
level (para 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficits were financed by a rising volume of grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign grants.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
Increases in deposit rates were effected and have resulted in savings deposits
increasing faster than money supply. Together with a marked decline in
inflation to around 7 percent in 1982-83, these increases have resulted in
interest rates becoming substantially positive again in real terms.
8.       In 1982, the rapid GNP growth slowed down to 7.4 percent, mainly as a
result of the slowdown in industry and construction. Exports and workers'
remittances also stagnated, reflecting the deceleration in economic activity
in the neighboring oil producing countries. Appropriate Government policy
responses prevented this slowdown from creating balance of payments problems.
The Government reduced sharply the public investments following a decline in
grant aid, while private investments were slowed down by the near stagnation
of workers' remittances. Construction activity and imports of machinery and
equipment declined in parallel to investments. As a result of investment
cut-backs, the overall public finance deficit exceeded only slightly the 1981
level, and foreign borrowing increased only moderately. The overall balance
of payments showed a slight deficit for the first time in four years and
foreign exchange reserves declined by some 12 percent, but remained at over
three months' imports.
9.       Several indicators point to a further slowdown in the overall
economic growth rate to about 6 percent (in real terms) in 1983, a
satisfactory performance considering the present unafavorable economic
environment; foreign grant aid is expected to decline by another 20 percent,
workers' remittances have stagnated while exports of manufactured goods and of
services to neighboring countries have slowed down or, as in the case of Iraq,
declined. These negative factors are compensated to some extent by a marked



- 3 -
increase in exports of raw and processed minerals as the large fertilizer and
potash projects have come on stream. In addition, imports are declining in
line with the sizable reduction in public and private investments, while the
Government has further intensified its domestic resource mobilization efi-orts
through cuts in subsidies and improved collection of direct and indirect
taxes. As a result, domestic resources are likely to exceed 90 percent of
current budget expenditures and the overall balance of payments is expected to
show a 35-40 percent lower current account deficit; this deficit is likely to
be more than covered by foreign grants and the proceeds of a $225 million
Eurodollar loan contracted in early 1983.
Medium-Term Prospects
10.      The current Plan (1981-85) aimed at maintaining the rate of growth of
the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of the
investment program, the Plan was ambitious--total investment would be
maintained at 33-35 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the Government.
The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last decade, namely
to: (a) reduce the heavy dependence on external assistance while maintaining
rapid growth; (b) diversify the economy bv increasing commodity production;
(c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the distribution of the
benefits of growth.
11.      Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries and its impact on the availability of resources for
investment and public expenditures, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent
range would no longer appear feasible.   Projections on the basis of revised
assumptions indicate that a rate of 5-6 percent p.a. in real terms appears
more likely. It is assumed that a reduction will take place in the
exceptionally high investment rate experienced during the early 1980's (40-45
percent of GNP). Industrial output, however, will benefit from the completion
of a number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer, now at initial
stages of production, and is likely to maintain an overall average annual
growth rate of about 10 percent.  Barring serious disruptions in agricaltural
output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would realize a
significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors in total
domestic output (from 38 percent to 43 percent) and thus correspondingly
reduce its traditional dependence on the services sector.
12.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports remain promising.
The completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with
the enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982.  In agriculture, the
expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase. Even though merchandise exports are projected to maintain
a high rate of increase (13 percent p.a. at constant prices) while imlorts
would grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to
increase and could exceed the two billion dollar mark by 1984. In relation to
GNP, however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant further
decline (from 62 percent t:o 48 percent). Unlike the recent experience, net
workers' remittances and loreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not



-4-
be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have
to rely more on external borrowing (para 16).
Social Issues
13.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective! manpower shortages.  However, according to
the Bank's manpower projections demand and supply for labor in Jordan might
become more balanced throughout this decade with the possibility of an
emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled professionals.  In 1980, out
of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the West
Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be workers,
compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000   Domestic employment
includes a number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 125,000;
half of these workers are unskilled.  The country has expanded its education
and training system rapidly, to meet both domestic and external needs.  A
comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help ensure that; (a)
the economy does not suffer from shortages of crtucial skills, 7hile meeting
prospective demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the
potential labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle
workers in rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing
fast, is still low. The Bank is assisting the Government with a review of
these matters.
14.      The Government has further emphasized social issues in the current
Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively
favorable reading in most sectors, social servizes are unevenly distributed
across income groups and between urban and rural areas.  Thus, while health
infrastructure is adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years),
medical doctors are concentrated in urban cente:rs. Housing remains a problem
despite the boom in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded
the means of the lower income groups. The Government's concern about these
issues has led to the setting up of the new Miniistry of Social Affairs in
November 1979 to define a coherent social development program. The Bank has
assisted the Government with reviews of the urban and regional development
issues.
External Assistance
15.      With the large chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of remitta:nces
and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of payments was on
average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers' remittances increased
from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in 1981 ar.d 1982.
Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged
assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign
grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980
and 1981; it declined to some $1 billion in 1982. This decline was the main
reason for the current account deficit of over $330 million in that year. The
external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached $1.7 billion at the end
of 1982 (about 40 percent of GNP); the outstanding and disbursed debt to IDA
was about $84 million, and to IBRD, about $70 mi:llion. External debt service



payments amounted to $193 million in 1982 or 6.1 percent of total exports of
goods and services.
16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social poLicies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign
assistance. Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $600 million over the 1983-87 period.  While bilateral and
multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of external
resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial markets,
and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the
debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach 7-8 percent by 1987 and some 10 percent by 1990.  Given
this outlook and the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
17.      Jordan has received 13 Bank loans totalling $320.8 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 65-70 percent of appraisal estimates.
This disbursement level is among the best in the Region. The IDA credits have
financed projects in key sectors, such as education, highways, water supply
and sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained
a stage of economic development where it could be considered creditworthy for
Bank lending and had reached a GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits.
IDA lending was thus discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments
in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1984.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Bank assistance has also fostered the
development of the power subsector to meet the demand from a rapidly growing
economy.
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report
(No. P-3702-JO) for the Sixth Education Loan which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 29, 1983.



-6-
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's social and economic objectives was
provided in recent years by loans for the Fifth and Sixth Education projects
approved in March 1983 and February 1984, the Cities and Villages Development
Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development and Urban
Transport projects approved in July 1980 and July 1983 respectively, the Fifth
Power project approved in May 1982, the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and
Sewerage project approved in December 1982, and the Energy Development Project
approved in December 1983.
20.      The Government has requested intensified assistance from the Bank to
achieve the Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical training
in order to meet the manpower needs of the economy, and provide secondary
education in less-developed regions. The recent education projects address
part of these needs. Projects under preparation include mining, transport,
water supply/sewerage, and health development. The Bank is also looking at
the project possibilities in the industrial sector.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy, water supply and urban sectors, regional development
issues, and export strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries
as well as the health sector. The reports entitled Energy Sector Study,
Review of the Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Export Strategy and Export Promotion
In Manufacturing Industries, and Urban Sector Review were distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983, May 1983, and June 1983 (both Export
Promotion and Urban Sector Reviews) respectively. The reports on regional
development, health and water supply sector reviews are approaching completion.
22.      At the end of 1980, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 7 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR                             4
23.      Water Resources.  About 80 percent of Jordan's land area is desert.
Availability of water depends largely on rainfall, which ranges from 600
millimeters per year in the northern uplands to negligible amounts in the
southern and eastern deserts. Over 85 percent cf the water precipitated as
rainfall is lost through evaporation. Most of the municipal water supply
systems and industry at present depend upon groundwater and springs. As these
sources have become fully used, surface and groundwater in other areas,
hitherto used for agriculture, will have to be transported over long distances
and high lifts to meet municipal and industrial needs. The rapid growth of
the economy in recent years and the associated increase in municipal,



industrial and agricultural water demands have put serious pressure on t:he
country's limited water resources and water scarcity may become a principal
constraint to economic development. Prudent water resources management is
therefore one of Jordan's most important objectives.
24.      The Government has embarked on a program of large water projects to
help relieve water shortages in the major urban areas, particularly in the
upland areas of northwest Jordan. Among the principal projects, the Azraq
PI         pipeline (in operation), and the water transmission system  from the East Ghor
Main Canal in the Jordan Valley (under construction) would provide about 55
million cubic meters of water per annum from ground and surface water sources
to the Amman area. Facilities to transfer another 20 million cubic meters per
year of groundwater in the Jordan Valley near Wadi Arab to the Irbid area are
also under construction. The Government has also adopted a policy for
adequately treating all sewage from industries and municipalities which are
sewered so that effluents may be suitable for reuse in agriculture. The most
important sources of effluent are Amman, Zarqa, and Ruseifa, which discharge
via the Zarqa River into the King Talal Reservoir, an important source of
irrigation water supply.
25.      Water Supply.  Almost 90 percent of the urban population is supplied
through house connections. Due to source inadequacy, the supply in many areas
is intermittent. In 1979 about 60 percent of the rural population was
provided with piped water supply, but with ongoing extension works this is
expected to reach about 80 percent by 1985. The population not receiving
piped water is supplied through tankers operated by the Water Authority (WA)
or by private tankers whicn draw water from nearby springs, or wells, or from
WA water points (standpipes).
26.      Sewerage.  At present, only four cities, Amman, Salt, Aqaba, and
Jerash have sewage collection systems. These serve about 25 percent of
Jordan's population. Sewerage systems being constructed in Irbid, Zarqa, and
Ruseifa will provide service to another 15 percent. Amman has a treatment
plant utilizing the activated sludge process, which meets part of the capital
city's needs; Salt operates an extended aeration system; Aqaba uses primary
treatment; and Jerash has oxidation ditches. The treatment plant in Irbid
will use the activated sludge process, while Zarqa and Ruseifa will have
trickling filters. Also under construction are stabilization ponds, which
will add to the treatment capacities of the systems in Amman and Aqaba. Other
towns and villages with piped water systems, serving about 40 percent of the
total population, discharge their wastes in septic tanks, cesspools and
similar facilities.  The remaining population uses pit privies and latrines or
has no sanitation system at all.  Despite efforts to provide sewerage in
recent years, many urban centers are still served by inadequate individual
waste disposal facilities. In densely populated parts of cities, the soil is
no longer capable of disposing of the increasing amount of effluents.
Consequently, cesspool overflows and improper disposal of cesspool waste
occur, creating major health hazards. Severe outbreaks of cholera have
occurred in Jordan, the latest in 1981.
27.      An increase in nitrite concentration is noted in the groundwater in
the main limestone aquifer underlying communities using cesspools. This



groundwater is used for potable water supply. Fortunately, in most cases this
source is still bacteriologically safe. The danger exists, however, of direct
entry of cesspool effluents into water rmains during periods of depressur-
ization.
28.      Sector Organization.  Until recently all water development activities
were coordinated and assisted at the national level by the National Planning
Council (NPC), Jordan's central planning authority. In December 1983, a law
created the WA and assigned responsibility to it for the plan-ning,
development, allocation, and management of all water resources, as well as for
the provision of potable water suLpply and sewerage services. This law also
stipulated that henceforth all water resources, whether surface or
underground, would be considered property of the state. The rnajor roles
assigned to the WA are (a) the elaboration of policies for the appropriate
allocation of water among potential users; (b) the development of water
resources and bulk transfer to watesr-short areas; (c) the setting of tariffs
to encourage water conservation and to ensure the Authority's financial
viability; and (d) the protection of water resources. The WA is in the
process of taking over all agencies providing water supply, the departments of
certain agencies concerned with water resources monitoring, planning and
development, and the water systems of some 400 communities which still operal'e
their own water supplies. The takeover involves the transfer to the WA of all
physical assets of these entities as well as the liabilities incurred by them.
29.      IDA/Bank Role in Water Supply and Sewerage.  The Bank commenced its
assistance to the Jordanian water supply sector in the 1960s. The Credit
18-JO of 1961 for $1.5 million and the Credit 43--JO of 1963 for $2.5 million
supported water supply development respectively in Amman and in the cities of
Ramallah-El Bira, Jerusalem, Nabluis, Azraq, Irbid, and Zarqa. These
aforementioned projects, which included provision of new wells, pumping
stations, transmission mains, storage capacity, and improvement and extension
of the distribution systems, have been successfully completed.    In the
1970s, the Government concentrated its efforts on developing the water supply
and sewerage services of Amman. In this context, the Bank supported the
creation of the former Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), an
autonomous water supply and sewerage agency. The $8.7 million credit (Cr.
385-JO) of 1973 and the $14 million credit (Cr. 780-JO) of 1978 assisted in
the development of AWSA and helped finance investments for Amman's rapidly
expanding water supply and sewerage services. The completion report (Sec.
79-491) for the 1973 project (Cr. 385-JO) noted that while substantial effort
had gone into the institutional development of AWSA, some inherent weaknesses
remained, particularly in its financial department. The institutional
development effort was continued and the remaining problems were addressed
under the Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 780-JO) which has
just recently been completed, and for which a completion report is under
preparation.
30.      In 1983, the Bank provided further assistance through Loan 2213--JO of
$17.0 million for the improvement of the water supply distribution systems of
the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa and for sewerage in the densely populated
areas of these two cities. A prime projec' objective was to strengthen the
former Water Supply Corporation (WSC), then the project implementing and
operating agency. Technical and financial advisors have already been engaged,



and measures to improve operation and financial management are underway. With
the recent reorganization of the sector, responsibility for the implementation
and operation of the project has been taken over by the WA, which has decided
that these advisors will provide assistance to the new organization.
31.      The Bank's objectives in the sector are to assist the Government to
efficiently develop, manage, and distribute the country's scarce water
resources and to adequately dispose of waste and wastewater in order to
enhance the quality of life, with particular emphasis on the lower income
population. The strategies for doing this are outlined in the water sector
study which is nearing completion. These include (a) development of policies
and plans to efficiently manage and allocate the country's scarce water
resources; (b) development of technically sound and economically feasible
projects to increase the country's usable water resources; (c) development of
projects to adequately dispose of wastewater and to allow reuse; (d)
improvement of water distribution systems and reduction of leakage; (e)
improvement in sectoral planning and strengthening of sector institutions and
(f) establishment of sound pricing policies to assure economic use and
conservation of water and to allow operating entities to be financially viable
and self-sustaining. The Bank objectives have been taken into account in
formulating this and the recent Zarqa/Ruseifa projects and will also be
reflected in future projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
32.      Jordan has received assistance from USAID in preparing a program of
water supply and sewerage projects for its regional population centers. The
proposed project is a part of this overall effort, and it was identified in
November 1982 and prepared by Government consultants. It was appraised in
November 1983.  Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during April 9 to
13, 1984. The Jordanian delegation was headed by Mr. Omar Abdullah Dcokhgan,
President, National Planning Council, and included representatives of the
Water Authority. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan - Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project," No. 4972a-JO), dated
April 24, 1984, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the loan and project are given in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this Report and in Annex III. A map showing the
project cities is attached..
Project Objectives
33.      The project would assist the Government to improve and expand water
supply systems and establish adequate sewerage services in Jordan's secondary
cities. The health and environmental conditions outside the capital city of
Amman would thereby be improved substantially. In addition, the project would
provide institutional support to the newly created Water Authority (WA), which
now has the responsibility for managing Jordan's water resources, anc for
providing water supply and sewerage services.



- 10 -
Project Description
34.      The project includes; (i) the rehabilitation and expansion of water
distribution systems in eight cities with a total 1984 population of 136,000
(Ramtha, Mafraq, Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Jannah, Kufrinja, Madaba, and Ma'an; see
map) to meet demand up to 1995; and (ii) the construction of sewers in densely
populated areas of the same cities to replace the present cesspool systems
which are no longer adequate. The water supply component will include
construction of about 110 km of trunk and distribution mains, 8,000 m3 of
reservoir storage and provision of about 10,000 supply and production meters.
The sewerage and sewage treatment component would include construction of
about 177 km of trunk and collection sewers, about 14,000 laterals for house
connections, four waste stabilization pond systems to treat a total average
sewage flow of 6,500 m3/day, a sewage treatment plant comprised of Imhoff
tanks and trickling filters for an average flow of 1,800 m3/day, and a
sewage pumping station and force mains. The works in Ramtha, Mafraq, Madaba
and Ma'an will include collection sewers, trunk sewers and treatment by waste
stabilization ponds, including anaerobic and facultative lagoons, and
maturation ponds. Anjara, Ajloun, Ein Jannah and Kufrinja will each benefit
from a gravity sewer collection system, trunk sewers and a joint treatment
plant consisting of Imhoff tanks followed by trickling filters, secondary
clarification and filtration through a coarse soil media. The choice of this
treatment alternative is dictated by the shortage of land for stabilization
ponds and is the least-cost solution, taking into account energy and other
considerations. Treated effluents will be used for irrigation.
Project Implementation
35.      The newly created WA will be responsible for project execution and
has agreed to set up a project management unit to be responsible for work in
the northern and southern cities and to adequately staff the unit by end-1984
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02). The project manager has already been
appointed. Preparation of design and contract documents is being carried out
by three local consultants (Jouzy & Partners, Consulting Engineering Center
and Arab Tech) with funds provided by the Government, supported by three
consultants from the United States (Engineering Science, Black and Veatch and
CH2M Hill) funded under United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) assistance. The work is almost completed and tendering is expected to
take place in June 1984.  The WA has sewer regulations that require properties
to be connected to the sewerage system when the system is constructed. While
sewerage is generally desired, the expense required for sewer connection may
pose financial difficulties for the lower income groups which the system will
serve. The WA has agreed that it will assist low-income families with
appropriate arrangements (Project Agreement, Section 3.04).  The arrangements
under consideration are the phasing of the connection charges and the securing
of the services of credit institutions to finance other expenses. The project
is expected to be completed by mid-1989. The WA would ensure timely
availability of sufficient water supply in the northern project area (Project
Agreement, Section 2.10).



- 11 -
Land Acquisition
36.      The land required for the sewage treatment plants, the sewage pumping
station and part of the trunk sewers is privately owned and presently vacant.
The WA has already initiated land acquisition procedures and access to
designated sites for project construction is expected to proceed without
problems.
4         Institutional Arrangements and Technical Assistance
37.      The WA has been given project implementation responsibility for all
previous Bank Group operations in the sector. It is taking over all asseats,
liabilities and obligations of the previous water entities, Anman Water and
Sewerage Authority (AWSA) and Water Supply Corporation (WSC). Under the
proposed project, the systems in seven of the eight cities, operated by the
respective municipal departments, will be taken over by the WA. As a result,
their operations will be improved and consolidated under the regional
departments of the WA. Institutional assistance is being provided to the WA,
as the successor of the WSC, by USAID and the Bank (Loan 2213-JO). USAI]D
assistance is being provided through projects for improvement of water supply
and provision of sewerage in the cities of Irbid, Zarqa and Ruseifa, and a
special technical assistance project for training sector personnel and Local
consultants and contractors. Under the latter project, the Government has
engaged experienced foreign consultants to provide technical support to three
local consulting firms for designing the water supply and sewerage systems of
ten cities, eight of which are included in this project. Others are financed
by USAID under a separate project. Additional USAID assistance would help
build up WA's accounting system, enhance its financial management and train
its staff.
38.      Bank funds under Loan 2213-JO will be used to engage a management
advisor to assist WA to design a sound organizational structure, estab'Lish
staffing and training needs, develop an appropriate management informa-ion
system and propose personnel policies. A technical advisor, already engaged,
will review and make recommendations to improve operating and maintenance
practices in the WA, set up a data collection system for project planning
purposes, and assist in the preparation of major projects. The Bank funds
will also finance a study to look into the design of appropriate tariffs for
all water uses (comprising municipal, industrial and agricultural supplies),
z          taking into consideration the need for conservation, the affordability by the
poor, and the generation of adequate revenues to allow the enterprise to be
financially viable. Selection of consultants for the work is now in hand.
39.      The number of staff in the different water and sewerage related
organizations who would now belong to the WA is about 2,850 people. This
corresponds to about 13 employees per one thousand connections served. This
ratio is reasonable given the fact that the WA's responsibilities are spread
over the whole country and the population density outside Amman is low.
Another 850 employees have also been taken over from the water resources
branch of the NRA. Through the creation of the WA many overlapping functions
are being eliminated and staff from separate organizations brought tcgether to
work in consolidated units. While this will contribute to increased



- 12 --
productivity, additional staff will still have to be recruited to operate the
new sewerage systems being built under this project and others. By the end of
this decade, the WA staff is projected to grow to about 5,000. The salary
levels for WA technical staff are compet-;tive; attracting and retaining
qualified technical staff does not pose a problem. The situation regarding
financial staff is different in that salary levels are substantially lower and
there is a general shortage in Jordan of qualified accounting skills.   A
program for training in finance and other skills is being planned. The issues
related to personnel policies will be addressed by the management advisor
provided under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan 2213-JO).                                     A
40.      The WA has an ongoing training program financed largely by USAID.
The program provides for training of managerial and professional staff abroad
and operating staff at local institutionsO Several facilities exist in Jordan
-- the Amman Polytechnic Institute, the Vocational Training Corporation, the
University of Jordan and the Yarmouk University -- which now provide training
for technicians in civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering as
well as in finance.  Plans exist to offer training in water supply and
wastewater engineering in the near future and a training proposal is being
prepared specifically for sewage treatment plant: operators, taking into
account the number of such plants to be commissioned in the future. USAID has
also studied the overall training requirements in the sector and has prepared
a report that details the required short- and lcng-term technical advisors,
training materials and equipment to assist and implement a long-term training
program. USAID has incorporated this program in its "Water Systems and
Services Management Project" and has provided the funds needed for its
implementation. The financial advisors provided by USAID, who work closely
with the Bank, are assisting in providing on-the-job training to the
accounting staff in implementing a public utility accounting system.
Financial Position
41.      The WA's financial position reflects thet relative shortage of water
in Jordan and low average consumption levels.   It is also affected by the
locational mismatch between the main water sources and consumption centers,
which necessitates transportation of water over long distances and steep
gradients. For its piped water systems, the WA derives most of its revenues
from water and sewerage charges based on metering. For sewerage, the WA also
collects a connection fee of 25 percent of the annual rental value of the
sewered property and a 4 percent tax to be paid for 20 years, also based on
the rental value. In small communities without a piped water supply and for a
large nomadic population the WA provides a tanker supply or a free supply from
water points. The unit costs of providing these services are up to ten times
higher than those in larger centers.  Tariffs in line with such costs would be
totally unaffordable; thus, costs of these operations exceeding the
corresponding revenues are covered by the Government. The WA's revenues on
this basis have been adequate to meet its operational requirements and to
provide limited financing for works under construction. The WA's debt/equity
ratio of 24/76 in 1983 reflects the significant role the Government has played
in providing funds as equity for water and sewerage projects. While a number
of small loans have been contracted over the years for system expansion,
servicing them from WA's own revenues poses no difficulty. For construction



- 13 -
of critical works, the Government intends to either provide the necessary
funds not generated from WA's internal sources or to service any debts
incurred for financing these projects.
42.      Tariffs-Cost Recovery.  The WA's tariffs are proposed by its Board of
Directors and approved by the Council of Ministers. Water tariffs are high.
Those for metered service are in line with the cost of these services, while
the cost of providing tanker and water point supplies to the rural areas is
partly covered by consumers and partly by the Government.  The structure of
the water tariff is adequate. The WA charges for its sewerage operations
through a combination of surcharge on water consumption and a connection fee
and annual tax based on property rental values. The tax is collected by the
Government and passed on to the WA. The WA's sewerage operations are expected
to grow rapidly in the next five to six years with significant financial
implications. Based on the current system of sewerage charges, the WA's
average revenue is adequate, but such charges will have to be increased as
sewerage systems are expanded and new systems built. As part of the Bank's
loan for the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan 2213-JO), it was agreed that a tariff
study would be carried out for WSC (now absorbed by the WA) which would
propose various combinations of tariffs, user charges and levies for the
Government's consideration. The scope of this tariff study has now been
expanded to cover the WA's operations and consultants are being recruited.
The study will serve as a basis for establishing a new tariff policy.
43.      Future Financial Performance.  By the year 1990 the WA's volume of
water sales would go up by 60 percent, and with the new sewerage systems the
volumes which would be billed for sewerage will go up almost four times. The
volume of water supplied to rural areas would not increase very much. The
revenues from water sales would go up about 2.6 times and the revenues from
sewerage and the taxes collected from sewerage services would go up abolut
seven times. In the same period operating expenses would go up about 2.5
times for both water and sewerage. The difference between revenues and
expenses would leave a margin which would enable the WA to meet its financial
obligations. The WA has agreed that from fiscal year 1985 onwards it will;
(i) for its metered water services, maintain or adjust tariffs to provide
sufficient revenues to cover its operating and maintenance expenses (excluding
depreciation), the greater of debt service or depreciation, and increased
working capital, to finance not less than 5 percent of the average annual
investment cost in 1987 and 1988, and 10 percent in 1989 and thereafter;
(ii) for its sewerage operations, implement a system of sewerage user charges,
fees and levies sufficient to cover operating and maintenance expenses
(excluding depreciation) and the greater of debt service or depreciation; and
(iii) provide the Bank three months before the beginning of each fiscaL year
copies of its forecast budget for the fiscal year, financial projections for
the following two years as well as any proposals for adjustments in tariffs
(Project Agreement, Sections 4.03 and 4.05). In addition to the above revenue
measures, the Government would continue to compensate the WA for any deficits
resulting from the operation of its services by tankers and at water points
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). Based on the substantially higher revenue
base in the future, the WA would be able to service all its debts and its
ability to contribute towards its future expansion programs from internally
generated funds can be expected to grow.



- 14 -
44.      Billing and Collection.  The WA bills some of its large-volume
customers on a monthly basis, and other consumers are on a two- or three-month
cycle. The billing in its Amman-based operations is fully computerized and
operated by its own staff. For the operations outside Amman, the WA uses the
services of a computer service bureau to prepare the bills and some bills are
prepared manually. The WA is planning to expand its own computer facilities
and by 1985 all of the billing is expected to be done in-house. The accounts
receivable for the overall operations is about four months of sales. The
management of the WA is considering measures to improve bill collection.
These include a system of incentives for bill collectors and using the meter
reading facilities of the power companies which are more efficient.
45.      Accounting.  The WA's accounting system in its Amman operations
follows the standard public utility format on an accrual basis and is
reasonably well kept. The system followed in its operations outside Amman is
on a cash basis, as prescribed for government agencies. Although these
accounts can be translated into the more generally used utility format,
continuation of this system is not entirely satisfactory from an operational
point of view. The WA recognizes this deficiency and has decided to introduce
a proper accounting system for all of its operations. The system will be
computerized and, through appropriate coding, maintained parallel to the
government-prescribed system. The financial advisor provided under the
Zarqa/Ruseifa Project has already prepared a manual of accounts for
implementation in early 1985, and the accounting personnel are being trained.
46.      Audit.  The WA's Amman operations are audited annually by a local
independent auditing firm. The reports are of acceptable quality and in
sufficient detail. The operations outside Amman have until now been subject
to a system of expenditure control and final auidit by the Government Auditing
Department. These operations follow a different accounting system and the
scope of the audit undertaken by the auditing department is also different
from that normally undertaken for public utilities. The accounting system for
all WA operations will be converted into a standard public utility format
beginning in 1985. The WA will arrange for its accounts to be audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank and experienced in public utility accounting
systems.  Until 1985, the Government's Auditing Department will continue to
audit WA's accounts for its operations outside Amman.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
47.      The total cost of the proposed Project, including physical and price
contingencies, is about $59 million (in mid-1984 prices) of which about $38
million is in foreign exchange. In addition, interest and other charges
during construction amount to about $6 million.  Cost estimates do not include
import duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt. The cost breakdown
by components is given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report. The Project cost includes physical contingencies of about 10
percent of the total cost. The price contingencies correspond to about 14
percent of the base cost increased by the physical contingencies. The price
contingencies for the local costs are based on an increase of about 7.5
percent each year, for 1984 and beyond. The price contingencies for the
foreign exchange cost of the Project are 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for
1985 and 6 percent for 1986 and beyond.



- 15 -
48.      The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would cover about half of the
total financing needs. The balance would be financed by the Government
through loans (about $14 million) and equity contributions (about $20
million), and from internal sources of the WA (about $1.7 million). The Bank
loan would be applied towards the foreign exchange costs of all of the
components. It would be made to the Government for 15 years, including a
3-year grace period. The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed
loan to the WA under the same terms as the proposed loan.  The foreign
exchange risks arising from the subsidiary loan would be borne by the WA. The
onlending rate would be significantly positive in real terms as the current
domestic inflation rate is about 5 percent per annum.  Signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement would be a special condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
49.      Procurement and Disbursement.  All civil works and equipment
contracts (aggregate value of about $52 million) will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement. Bank guidelines will also be applied in the recruitment of
consultants. For civil works' contracts expected to last longer than 12
months, bid documents will allow inclusion of a price adjustment provision for
major construction materials with administered prices. In the comparison of
equipment bids obtained under ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to custom duties applicable to competing imports or
15 percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
50.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of
approximately six years as follows; civil works including related equipment -
52 percent of total expenditures; meters and operating equipment - 100 percent
of foreign expenditures, and 85 percent of expenditures for locally procured
items; consultant services - 100 percent of foreign expenditures.
51.      The estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and Project Summary
is based on the project implementation schedule and takes into consideration
the standard disbursement profile in Jordan. It reflects the advanced stage
of the design and the relative simplicity of the work to be carried out. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1990.
Project Justification, Benefits and Risks
52.      While some improvement work has been carried out by the
municipalities, the present level of water supply service in all the eight
cities in the project is still far from satisfactory. Parts of the systems
are old and undersized and in frequent need of replacement and repair.  Trunk
lines are inadequate in size to bring the required amount of water fcr
distribution, and distribution storage is short.  Consequently, water
pressures in many parts of the cities are low and this situation will
deteriorate with population growth. In the densely populated areas of the



- 16 -
cities, the intermittent service causes polluted groundwater to find its way
into the systems, thus endangering public health. The main impact of the
water component will be in this area. It will improve the distribution system
to provide sufficient quantities of water at adequate pressures. None of the
eight cities has sewers. The sewerage systems proposed under the project will
eliminate the present health hazards caused by overflow of cesspools due to
saturation of soil seepage capacity,, and alleviate soil subsidence problems
that threaten the foundations of many buildings as well as the groundwater
reserves. A significant innovation will be the collection of the wastewater
in densely populated areas of the cities and its use for irrigation purposes
after appropriate treatment. This would mark a move towards the better use of
Jordan's scarce water resources.
53.      The proposed project is the least-cost solution for the improvement
of water supply and for proper disposal of wastewater in the eight cities.
Facilities to be constructed under this project will serve the needs of the
population up to the year 1995.
54.      The project will continue the Bank's assistance to Jordan in
strengthening sector institutions started under previous credits and loans.
The creation of the WA was supported by the recent water sector study, and is
the principal step towards rationalization and higher efficiency in the use of
water. Given the favorable response of Jordan to the Bank's analysis of
sector issues and policy recommendations, it is appropriate that the Bank
continue to play an active role in the future evolution of the WA and the
sector. The project will provide a continuing opportunity to help develop the
technical and financial management capabilities of the WA staff through
association with supervision consultants and Bank staff.
55.      Economic Efficiency of Sector Investments.  The long-run average
incremental cost (LRAIC) of water at a discount rate of 10 percent varies
between JD 0.370/m3 in areas where water is locally available to
JD 0.490/m3 for areas such as Amman, where water has to be pumped over long
distances. The appropriateness of the investment in the sector is
substantiated by the fact that more than 30 percent of the water sold by the
WA is charged at the highest block tariff, which exceeds the LRAIC. These
consumers have, therefore, shown their willingness to pay for the cost of
providing additional water and for expanding services to larger segments of
the population. The LRAIC for overalL sector investment in sewerage is about
JD 0.300 per cubic meter, at a discount rate of 10 percent. The average
sewerage charge in 1988 to meet financial requirements would be about JD 0.213
per cubic meter in real terms and would be collected through a combination of
sewerage surcharges, taxes and levies.
56.      Affordability.  The water tariffs and sewerage charges envisioned for
the project should not impose any serious burden on even the lowest: income
segment of the project area households. The lowest quintile of average
household income in the project area is about JD 82/month. AssumirLg an
average household size of seven persons and an average per capita water
consumption of 40 liters/day, the average water and sewerage bill would be
about JD 3.00/month, which represents about 3.6 percent of the family income.
This is considered to be easily affordable to the lowest income segment of the



- 1 7-
population in the project area. For purposes of comparison, a family would
pay up to JD 3 per month for emptying cesspools alone.
57.      Risk.  WA's experience with constructing sewerage systems is limited
to only a few cities. The possibility of delays and resulting higher costs
have, however, been taken into account in preparing the project implementation
schedule and in the project cost estimates. The WA and the municipal units
that it would be taking over have only limited staff with experience in
operating sewerage systems and sewage treatment plants.  Despite this, the
sewer connection program would have to be undertaken in all the cities
following the commissioning of the sewage treatment plants, so that the
expected benefits from the project are fully derived within as short a time as
possible. Substantial effort will be required of the WA to minimize these
risks. Success will eventually depend on the commitment and dedication of the
WA's management, its ability to recruit experienced staff in certain critical
areas, and the development and training of its existing personnel. Measures
to assist the sectoral management have been taken under previous Bank loans.
Assistance in training on a large basis will also be provided under a
concurrent project that USAID is undertaking. WA's assistance to low-income
families in making financing arrangements to cover the expense of making sewer
connections will help to ensure that the sewer connection program will be
carried out expeditiously. Given the past good record, the very high priority
that the Government gives to the water and sewerage sector, and the provisions
under the proposed project, it is expected that the risks associated with the
project would be overcome.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Water Authority
(WA) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government. and
the WA would be a special condition of effectiveness.
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
IC                                   PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen Qureshi
Attachments
April 26, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-18 -                                             Page l of 6
T A S L E 3A
JORDAN                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                                  REiFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b      1970Th. ESTIMATE-/    N. AE'ICA & MID EAST   LAT. AMEfICA & CAKIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Fi)
TOTAL                                  97.7        97.7         97.7
AGRICULTURAL                          12.8         14.0         14.8
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        ..          ..       1620.0/c           1340.0                     2088.2
ENERGY CDNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       185.0        308.0        627.0             810.4                      1407.6
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1695.0        2299.0       3370.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         4Z.7         49.6         57.0              47.4                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 6.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  17.8
-YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 0M.                         17.3         23.5         33.2               36.0                       35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             132.4        164.2        219.2             449.0                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (T)
0-14 YRS                           44.4         45.8        46.3               43.9                        40.1
15-64 YRS                           51.5         51.0        51.1               52.8                        55.8
65 AND AROVE                         4.L          3.1          2.7               3.3                         4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                3.1          3.0          3.5                2.9                        2.3
URBAN           ,                    5.2          4.5          4.7               4.6                         3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          47.4         47.6         46.5               4,2.5                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TOUS)          19.9         15.5          9.0               12.0                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5         3.6          3.6                3.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANN1NG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        220.0         79.0         71.0              91.5                       113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIFS (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)        93.0         93.0         96.0             L02.3                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            61.0         55.0         62.0              72.0                        67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15.0         15.0         15.0/d             17.8                       34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.3         12.5          5.4               15.2                        5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         47.0         54.1         61.7               57.2                       b4.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        135.5         97.5         66.9             104.2                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                               21.3           ..         80.0/c.e          59.3                        64.8
URBAN                               48.6           ..           .               84.9                        77.8
RURAL                                2.1           ..           ..              37.5                        44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            78.U/..           ..           .    e
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                ..                        69.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..                ..                        29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5800.0       3780.0       1890.0            3536.0                      1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             1930.0/f    1480.0        1310.0            1820.7                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              560.0       1350.0       1190.0/d          643.3                       477.0
URBAN                                 ..       1100.0       690.0/d            545.0                       667.5
RURAL                                 ..       5540.0           ..            2462.0                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         36.5         45.7/d            26.4                        27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE 51E OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.3          6.1          6.7/c
URBAN                                5.5           ..
RURAL                                5.1           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RtOOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..          6.5/c
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS To ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               17.0           ..         66.0/c            46.2
URBAN                               39.2           ..         90.0/c             77.6
RURAL                                1.4                      30.O/c            16.1
-- - -- - - --  - - -- - -- - - --  - - -- - - ___  ------ ------ ------  -------------------____ ___ ___ ___--_ _--__-__-__ ___-__-._ ___ __ ___--_ _--___ __ _ _



- 19 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
JORDAN                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  /b        MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960I       1970-1 ESTIMATE-    N. AFRICA & MID EAST   LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    77.0        72.0/c      108.0/c            B9.6                     105.0
MALE                    94.0        79.4-          ..             104.8                     106.3
FEMALE                  59.0        65.07&        ..               72.4                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   25.0        33.0/c      79.0/c,g           41.7                      40.0
MALE                    36.0        41.0/c         ..              52.8                      38.6
FEMALE                  13.0        24.07h        . .              31.2                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           2.7         3.0/c       13.0/c            10.3                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        39.0/c      32.0/c             31.9                      30.7
SECONDARY                          20.0        23.O70      2o.07;             23.3                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)              32.4           ..        70.0              43.3                      79.5
CONSU9PtION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           3.7         6.7        19.6/d             18.0                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         37.S       160.9       165.2              138.1                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..        20.0        52.7               45.6                     108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             18.3        24.4        29.3/d             31.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       3.2         0.9         4.8                1.7                       2.9
LABOR PORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           432.0       569.0       800.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6         6.6               10.7                      24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              44.0        34.0        20.0               42.5                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.0         9.0        20.0              27.8                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              25.5        24.7        23.7               25.6                      31.3
MALE                               46.7        45.5        43.4               45.4                      49.8
FEMALE                              2.7         2.8         3.2                5.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.9         2.0         2.1                1.8                       1.4
INCQtE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
POVERTY TARGET GEOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          2. 230.0/d                  276.1                     289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       loo.o7T            177.1                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       206.0/d            400.0                     519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       135.07-            283.3                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                ,.           ..        14.0              22.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        17.0               30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries a.org the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  East Bank; /d 1977; /e 1982; /f 1962; /g Inicludes preparatory educatiorn age 12-14 years.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                                           Page 3 of 6
02EFIN7fN0 OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noon_   although tine data coo draw   fr-  .ou            ...geerll  judgd.th . oe.  . u.. oi..t.o. ad......   l ...  .h.old al Co. to noted  oh., t tAo, maY -5 ho         " Inn 'alunl ly
copr..tInln  becus   f  h   lack of  eodrie          aiol IIon  end a-noept  ned by'diffrntouno-                I   tinnlo   h  dat. .Tho aooeloehls                        etlI
deo Iitodere of sgltat  maaeno ead aburuc cano   .ertetlb sjor dit nreoe ... Oab                      n co..t.   e
Th   nenvngoop   In    f  h  so  onu1ty goop of  hI.ob...00tyno    )uoun  py grop olth  -oMuht high.to,                            rg   Incom   tha  tho country glvoy of tho
eneojed  v rinnnganeege  o  on  tdirt-no   toaohor   Thes  so ge   teoly usefuli toonpso iv  the valu  of one I d rla-r 00 e 0 lee as     tho co-onry  of:
I...- T-tIsot00ae ovyllt   a    raad Inland eate t; 1960,                                            phscl n    uali tee  tIItandia  sho   tavoeiylvl
1971 ard 1990 dana                                                                                 Populatio- j persNiog yersoo-   Popu:Iattnndiv' Ided  y vusbe r  fpar cn
'anIvt- not,-I    tienoo    Igic llton Iun     unA  nenporonLy 01 p-r-tonLy                            sianfec in rduato ..ata  aeienonnot,prvic_t IIenaan
for  rop, ysouts  etIno~ ond kiltohor garden   or to Iit  falor1; :896,                         Iun... iguu..liootre.
19 ad 180 dana.                                                                                Prultetyn  oyie   led -  RtI". urban, aol tural   ftPpuI,ia-o   ntl
urban, tornli I dlald    by tine, ir        .....n tin  nuo  of ho pfttl beds
GNP Pit CAPITA 10ff) -G10  yer ca..t.  too III a at curnent eeier1 .r...o ,                                vilebie In poblic and prIvate general and epecllimed hoapctl Io-d
navlcdby ta    r-ve Clot et tid ae Wvold tenlk Atlet 11 79-i bets                                 re:beIinltontannoeC,.iCinsre  tublhbmots Pe.ahciy  -nffod
minI, 1970, ovA  lAil nato.                                                                             by a   inntt cot  yheue .ftaiisnnnby idin,g polocipsi in  utvId at
0cm. are outitluded.  Rua  belti,Icone,itl                        hacloban
fE01007 CONIuyTLlfN PER CAPITu -             Pnna  upptt:oonttno   osrcltd  Ia   oti    o   onnn  ysafdb     physeo    btb      eta
yrnay  vrg   lol  odlgnno,  ooctuo  nncri  aonoAhyro,nulnP                                    at lletn    ue ,1'l   -cdlIfe -eo.  f-ihit ofrIn-ye F.ent anooInn   ala"
19b0, i970, and l980 doho.ura  honpintlle  lorluao utOl  prlncipalfg--raI h-npitois , od  -ane
boplnita, IIIo Ie     pni  cyvitl  und and uul and wat-nvtn
yOPLILAcgIlN ANPITA17L SThTlAllOh                                                                         tpotoinr.d h-vpinoilan  itoLudedonyur  tal
TonlFcltin    i-oo   tona) -As of July 1;1960in, t1970, and 1981                                      odleoopr  ontltd - Total nuho  o f adaisoo    no onI dlsi-h-g-
daca.                                                                                        frco inctyinole dtnidrd by  boneoofbndnI
'Inbe...PIuatn fd nnnn   otl       at  of oohnvI to n-o-tellyI doynl anton 
enog oouIItrteI;  I961,  970, Itd191doto.                                                         uvra.lin  ffljohld  fooreo2   per ha-nod       oa,ubo   v   ue
toni  Isufo   if  opeotnyatbiI            tootewoina attn ono-n~inyn oIr                       f      _erton   porno   ivolura,an   oa_          otfodonon  na
Oytd inon Icol          cod f-eci  life onatvo    obltig  07.                                    dnollinfC, te fotno .  ANtli ing  non loA   nc-eot    orrun   td
aeuing doriln  in ferility aro  ig toII I           Ioa   ..n.  endpeon tasily               hoarse to ElJ ri  n  Ipreco  an  ig    -                  1s ,  urban, and r-r1 -
planing peoforno.-   foal coutry to  h.   -ionasgvd onIt.  thsI             iefnotica   o)ln C.-I.                   1       oltolct otyi            III    yacropcrrete-8
naviinotcneol crceicy ond noon itmy toendo for proj otin_  cuposee .                         af coos)1 ,ubo, and rural deeli log  nrait inely.
Sat.tover.y  noro1lotion-In    e tatinnaty popoltoto    0C    tnogot
Cince the birth  ru- In tqi In nbe deanb rav, ad   Io  thI aoEDUCATION
nhrutrn -ciocon- n.-  Iblo  to -chond only afton f-ltiliIy cat                              nlued Ono:istoet natoso
dotnen-      neroicoeclee  o   ttGetIp..c.o ot,obyyiat  shct-toa,taeao   eol-iooIto,  ae   n  fsl
ocino  of thn "P"poo   In ohe. ynan 2000, oAhOt rote ad d-ctt-  of                                   fears bu   detd for diOfeno -           vtitofpisr  edoIrnt o
fr   IItyraen  no          1-ne 1tlor.                                                         _onnlnih   n ora  edacn..               en  yleI  a  --nd 100 percet
hor111tocypooa  ion               ... eohoA - tme year obey  -naio-oy                                   0 ynlcnP"pl  on   oo   n  hnnoo   Ocu   -nhoo  aft.
yryuinoIo   oton oIl  be nenond.                                      feotoory 00001 - boat,nato andf-out  - Computed  -oabooc;ta_onot,
.Pnyolonho  Senato                                                                                        ndooo   rurnn   re   onyaao   prodpisery instrotinc
yn     m A.-Od-y-a  popoluoonPI.  .....n ktionoto  fIR  heota-o  If                             ytoodn   gennral, -ncaic-a, on teuoI             rino    nt_c  o 
coa 1na  16),  197. ov  190db.c                                                                             "i ool    f1  tc 17 Yoar  of ago; Ioon.s .ponlt    aoe.     r
Per r. At. aori-Itt-al land - Cc-yn-  atubc  fr-ficlor    ln                                            genoal     dcludd
only) 1987, "IOf and 19ff dana.                                                                  Ov-aio-al ool-Ioro H     I cerceno of.2 oocnd-yl    oatoa   into-nutioro
youa On  lt-Ol...o. ... t-n_tChi Olidr   (0-14 yoo-of,  -orAunt-an  f I)-                       i.tl.de  leohhollcl. Idort_       , crI otbI panm ohIch'oP"t :,Irdend
bo .r)  adnlo    lb7s~ I'focoodnnooocoao   ofe_-noapivlycn...hd,e-.neoeofnodryboo  lov..Id
Poptco;ll,17,ad18   uo                                                                             ut-rnhrtnc-aiao   n   oodn       oo   ndno nI                            oidI
P.nnulaioo G-ooc  Rlao   ) opnovoc  - cola) - An1a  g-oeh  -on   of total old-                          pritaryon,deonayttl  dinid    by  -oao-  of 1-h-olr   iv rhecor-
yea  yopol.tnnc  Inn 1951-hf, 1960-70, und 1970-Il.                                                  ro..po..to    . lonl.-
oonaon   1o -7bn  I proao   - ohn- Ooooal gnooth roto  ol onb-                              Ault. ti.tn   nonE         rrto    - ltloru-rdoLto  (onIt ho rood sod anile)a
y1lcooft11-,19;      1-1,  nd190Si.                                                         c   __tnnnag   of 101dalppuno aged 15 Y-o.arIov Ioo_
Cr-do Ot rh cuno foot  ,,oua-A   - A'noal li-n  hIrots per tnouauod of old-
yTnr popoIooton; 196C, t9?0, oa Iso9: da I.                                                      COtNSnM'fIfn
Crude le-th to. tolnn2o-       oa       :-IAn  dCathe pet- nhouad of vio-y-a                          P-ono    an)rhoon    ououn  -Pot6tuouptinu-
population; 1911, 1971, and 198 :Idat.cassnl_jls  ohetifoprIs ; coototon.s....un..
hot-  na  noro utooyotd tfalcyetvo   yrnrnh ag-sp-oifi toRadin nRo-ni- tn  chuad   cuuion   -All nyco  a II rnctn-n  for ncdt
f-otittly oct0;unuli   f                _o-yor  nergo  ondiog in, 1860, 1970, and                             ..ucet  tog-oat pbIc   e  Ifou-od of popu,Itnno-  oncIodt  o-
1981.                                                                                                11etfneeor    -n oo-net oah  II y_or  aeroisato  of radio
rastin  Oeoninc-nononot  . Annut fotooondo I   aenuoltoolerIf ecd-r eaco  nfet1Ol  far --cot y-ar  naynt, ho tysnb.ic  ounc  .no
of litb-control do-ci         anI osio    at nn tnal fantif plo-ndog                                 onnithl lobed I icn-elg.
P-yrna.                                                                                            I  Ooio    Ipt, nhouaaod pooiton  I             f, T ec-i-et  for bn...dcoo1
InIIo If Food  yrdo    -o    e  laytno  f969-71=117-'dofyouiuyouolnrondplan  ynnco  igAnoo   to    lcnonnono
anul Ioolo    f ol  daod  -oodoltit-    Poduottn  -ocld-  00-0 and                         cvt   dal0if itoyypraroo   leal-  foot ItIcoocnrc
fondov   It o   ula   hot  oo.loooiecccnprenygaI   leg..C.ne. Annua  Atoondonn  yn                                                    ayc   -nnno  - food oII  thno Iero
ocfln  and  ea ar  nooldoul,agnnocbe podur Ionofch -ooob 7                                                                                                               lIsdti  oia
bonod otosooon   sn-ngr  rdcnpIc    ngt   198-1-h, tOt, onA  MIS
data.                                                                                            11.0  Ff610
noogy  1onelnoof  Itfond sopynite   otIbl  ttovnypnfaidpn                                      oos  n   o.etfd bun  -noldini I.. ena,toebe   o.cvrn
ooPo....  . sd  hnatog    Oveo_I.I         . in  o .y.e evlade soeife,  nd                            op-rble; I-96t, 1970 and 1981 dale.
quantlIev,oed  in  cd y......n 1h, ard lot-o   In dcatnrlu  io.                                    fralInron       eoelbrfnre  Is orng   f con1 lobo  force
Recnenl   oeenonldh  PAd bhu.od on pbyoilnSi-gnl neede fo -                      a                   Agticolnore  I ron'Te-   - Ialon Iaro  Iv tering, fonasy, hootIng and
onnlo -cy hov      - boa9                     t oooro  oornno l nP-trs _r , bdy onlnot,           fi.hi.g as  Ienolc   f  -lot isn  fnnoe; 198, 1970 o-d 1981 I000
00 boo.hod lonni 1 181-81,1970l and 1980 dota.                                                          and oIn_t lob n,..eo-rod gor anyl          cna      ftnlbo   force; 1080,
tnn.pita -uyply of ponoI Ifr.e yI_  do) - yr-neincov-ennofprrna-ytn                                     1971 ovd 1981 data.
ten  oyyl  of  ond  en dy. ,Net loypIY of fIad is dofiond ao alnP otltat                                    bt  lyn-ont  - local  tale,an  fe-eolo-fncitoo r
a     Ican    f 81 gron  of lona  yPlIo po  dy and 20 oroso  oh avi-l nod                      poooeg-       o  nnt tam   nod le-at  poootoofoloo   roynoy
yun no io, v   Oc  IC a   .o ibno bd hecinal pnttv          hse18, 1970, unf 1801 Illc.  ,hoo,                                       r   oo   n,le   uels  o   ue
coundune sin   oon thn oIoo  of 795rn   rtta    rnc   n  27 crI0                              nnfloct togag-e Inulrofoepyoto,  dlngionnd
Thr  OoA  od -uoY; 1981-65, 1970 thd 1900st.                                             Eoononio AnnhlcfLcoo-  aItin  of  -ooiononn   lbI aodt 61n  -onto
.onos7ta  oonIn  unnlo   nolad 00111- yto-et  eacoty of food                                      tI   -dn lbor foone
An-l-e  frot anonols andyln   ngaopot day; 18-5  180ad 1977
Chuld foo-  1-A) bubSn    e  io-o        nna   nnt7n   buad Ionconnag I                                            f  roal  Tnc..t I bot1h 10   IIo and kind; - SR-el-d byrtiob-on
S g   toup 1---t  voudent   bssogay; o   cnOnlyo                                                     ptnn   tynnn, -td ovo-a  At Pontoo   of
Ovnoil At  AntionA  It-  lIfo  clIco.; 1980, 1971 coO  1981 Anon.                               hunod
""flf'tyonn    otAm    or) - nafo  tooler of y-at  If 1iIfo  -oono                                     o   oluogOt100   n                 y oyprove..I     econt  f yone-ty lnnnl .5
atbrb   980, 171. nod 1981dnonOudbItrped  olt oI                                                                                   odero Ile_atoo_
Infan  hottloonRoot  yenoboutn A) 19041 d-onb  of tnfdanoo-.dt-an                         EInn-ood Alnoluco P        _ony loc.o. Irnot 110 eS      oole   -abun  -n  cnu 
Noob-  of people Ion t,oban  , an  toa)nlnrsobnoooosf                                               cffo-nbl-.
annatanootd noto   -n  ut that 'oo  P-ot-old bon...lol  P, trogo   and                            ur-al reloato-    - v tnn  cocon lot  t       I ne-hilrdof an-oo   ennouc
Iaiarclo  -olnreogra of tlnirnnn-              o  yyooiP.     n..  In on                       y...oal i-onee of ton  -noncy.  Orban Inoel to denidnd  fro. lb - ura
urtao oeoopublo  foanoto Or  10ndy01 loo-d non ont   h:,v Ilay  _oetl l nch Id joltnoot for hight  or ..0.0 n                                . ltocgnnann-b-     s
oooo   E..not.  lnpoo   f nn..cen.  of yo-alanl-n  - tona, -nb-          dov
noo-lcnboo  pole7001   r         In ndrno)Inoabyecrn
Ityna  oN~  pnonor   fIernoelfepy)tnn.leoAooa
noyd   Itude   ba o~lotnudAodo,   eo   rntoloe enn,o                                                                                         rood  tdloo   oayvs
Acoo .00.0.      A  nIs.   -otc  b  001r-bon  tyno;oI           I s.o.i.too.IAayt  adPntoln    npnoo
pnomtoa   -I--n inotnilo-ot-ct.                                   dnop .960



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JORDAI - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.5 million (1982) 1/
GNP per capita: USS 1,692 (1982) 1/,2/
A.0ount                                                       Annual Growth Rates
Indicator                   (million US$ at                             Actual (at 1980 prices)                          Projected (at 1980 pricesX
current prices)
1982                  1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982              1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product           3,881                  12.4    21.5       9.1    10.8      7.4      6.3            6.0      6.5       5.5       5.0       5.0
Agriculture                   241                   1.0    25.0   -29.0    39.0    11.6         9.9           5.0       4.8       4.6       3.0       3.0
Industry                   1,014                  24.2    27.0    19.2    11.5    13.2         0.4           14e7      16.0       9.5       7.9       7.4
Services                   2,249                  10.1    18.9    10.2        7.9      4.3      8.9           2.3       1.8       3.2       3.2       3.2
Consunption                      4,296                  15.3    18.9    17.3    -7.6        6.4      3.7           4.5       5.0       5.5       5.0       5.0
Gross Investment                 1,798                  28.3      5.6    10.5    17.2    24.2        2.4          -8.4       1.0      -8.9    -11.3       -1.3
Exports GNFS                     1,911                  19.2    10.4    20.4    24.1    24.9         1.5          -0.7      13.0      13.0      13.:1      7.0
I-ports of GNFS                  4,127                  21.8      9.7    26.4    -1.7    27.4    -1.0             -3.0       5.9       4.1       4.5       4.9
Gross National Product           3,929                  13.1    18.2       7.7     6.8      8.2      7.4            7.5       6.1      5.4       4.13      4.8
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                      67.9    72.8    82.5   100.0   116.5   123.7
Exchange Rate                                       3.04    3.26    3.33    3.35    3.07    2.84
Share of GNP at Market Prices (%)                                  Average Annual Increase
(at current prices)                                          (at constant prices)
1975      1980     1985                                      1978-82           1983-87
Gross Domestic Product                                            96.0    100.8      97.8                                          11.0             5.6
Agriculture                                                   7.8      6.6       6.6                                         11.3              4.1
Industry                                                    21.8      26.7      31.6                                         14.3             11.1
Services                                                    59.7      57.9      50.6                                         10.0              2.7
Consumption                                                      123.8    109.8    104.2                                            9.0             5.0
Gross Investment                                                  26.5      40.8      31.3                                         12.0            -5.8
Exports of GNFS                                                   35.5      47.9      54.5                                         16.3             9.1
Imports of GNFS                                                   90.1      97.2     92.2                                          12.2             2.9
Gross National Product                                           100.0    100.0    100.0                                            9.7             5.7
Net Factor Income                                                  4.1      -0.8       2.2
Gross National Savings                                           -23.8      -9.8     -4.2
As . of GNP
(at current prices)
1975          1980         1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                           24.8          22.8         34.4
Current Expenditures                        37.6          33.9         32.2
Budgetary Savings                         -12.8          -10.0          2.1
Capital Expenditures                        23.6          22.9         12.7
Foreign Financing                           34.8          27.7          1.4
of which foreign grants                  30.0           20.5         11.3
1978-82       1983-87
OTHER INDICATORS
ICOR                                      5.4           5.9
Marginal Gross National
Savings Rate                          -2.8            3.8
Import Elasticity (goods)                1.2            0.8
1/ East bank only.
2/  Preliminary estimate based on the revised series of national accounts to be discussed with the Government, which excludes remittances from long
term residents abroad that are considered capital transfers.
EMENA CPIID
NLovember 1983



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
JORDAN - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                   (million US$ at                                      Annual Growth Rate
current prices)                    Actual (at 1975 prices)                     -  Pro5ected (at 1980 prices)
1982             1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982          1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports 1/                  526                27.3    6.7    22.5    22.9    31.1        2.1       9.8    20.5    17.0    11.0       9.8
Primary                              246                13.1    5.5    16.1    26.2    18.5    -3.2          8.7    24.7    16.1    11.5    10.3
Manufactures                         280                73.9    9.1    35.6    17.0    59.0       8.5        9.5    16.0    17.5    10.3       9.8
Merchandise imports                   3,231                24.2   -1.3    10.5       7.8    27.4   *-1.0       -3.0      5.9     4.1      4.5     4.9
Food                                 540               -14.2   25.8      9.9     7.1    31.6      6.4        5.5     4.8      4.8     4.8      4.8
Petroleum                            679                19.1  -13.2    30.3    42.3    19.3    22.0          6.5      6.0     5.5      5.0     5.0
Machinery and equipment              903                43.5   -3.4   -11.7    13.6    56.6   -13.0         -4.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0
Other                              1,109                39.5  -9.8    27.5    -3.4    19.3        0.5       -3.5      5.0     5.5      5.0     5.0
PRICES                                                                      (1975 - 100)                                      (1980 - 100)
Export price index                       --                86.1   85.8    90.2   106.9   107.5   113.2        121.7   130.8   140.6   151.2   162.5
Import price index                       --               112.2  114.8   133.5   150.4   113.6   119.4        123.2   132.4   142.3   153.1   164.5
Terms of trade index                     --                76.7   74.7    67.6    71.1    94.6    94.8         98.7    99.9    99.8    98.8    98.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7.                  Average Annual Growth Rates
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1975       1982        1987                          1978-82       1983-87
Exports 1!                                                   100.0       100.0       100.0                             21.2          13.5
Primary                                                    79.8        46.8       57.8                              12.6         14.3
Manufactures                                               20.2        53.2       42.2                              25.8         12.6
Import.                                                      100.0       100.0       100.0                              8.7           3.3
Food                                                       22.2        16.7       18.3                             15.9           4.9
Petroleum                                                  10.6        21.0       24.3                             20.1           5.6
Machinery and equipment                                    31.6        28.0       23.7                              8.4           0.0
Other                                                      35.5        34.3       33.8                               6.8          3.4
Share of Total Exports                 Share of Total Imports (7)
DIRECTION OF TRADE                                                 1975       1982                         1975        1982
Developed market economies                                         17.6        3.9                         62.6       49.1
Developing market economies                                        70.2       84.2                         29.2       43.5
of which Arab countries                                         42.4        78.5                         19.8       54.2
Centrally planned economies                                       12.2        11.5                          8.2         7.3
EMENA CPII-D
1/  Excluding re-exports                                                                                                                              November 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE OF PAYME7TS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                             Actual                                                       Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1990
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services              1001      1203      1437      1819      2491      3205      3070      3336      3894     4531       5039     5589       7631
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.             207       249       297      402       574       742       749       759      1038      1377      1553      1753      2514
Workers remittances          411       470        520      600        792     1042      1081      1148      1253      1366      1476      1593      2006
Imports of goods 6 services              1330      1714      2065      2872      3452     4550      4479      4250      4805      5467      6132      6877      9613
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            1020      1376      1497      1957      2393     3237      3229      2970      3444      3924      4393      4921      6916
Workers remittances              20        46        65        80       154       159       175       213       229       240       265      290       386
Net transfers 2/                          381       504       347      1046      1335      1321      1055       847       690       552       414      414          0
Current account balance                    52        -7      -280        -7       374      -26      -334         673/   -221      -384      -679      -874    -1982
Private direct investment                 -10        11        56        26        31       144        91        94       102       110       118       127       157
MLT loans (net)                            71       190       189       193       232       274       242       193       187       342       756       851     2060
Official                                  70        86       1L2       143       240       283       271       138       131      239       529       595      1442
Private                                    1       104        77        50        -8        _9      -29         55        56      103       227       256       618
Other capital                             -54       -21       278        20      -266      -382        14         -         -         -         -         -         -
Changes in reserves                       -59      -173     -243      -232      -371         83       110     -354       -69       -83       -94      -105      -235
International reserves                    567       740       983      1215      1586     1503      1211      1526      1595      1678      1772      1877      2188
Of which:  Gold                           80        81       a1         82      208       198       194       200       200       200       200       200       200
Reserves as months of imports               5.0       5.1       5.6       5.2       5.5       4.5       3.2       3.6       3.3       3.1       3.0       2.8       2.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                       91       214       221       270       308      407        374       321      282       624       804      1012      1995
Concessional loans                     80        94       119       151       133       256       257       224       197       437       563       708      1397
IDA                                  6         9         6        13         9         3         4         -         -         -         -         -         -
Other                               74        85       113       138       124       253       253       224       197       437       563       708      1397
Non-concessional loans                  11      120       104        99       175       151       117        97        85       187       241       304       598
Official export credits              3         3         8         2        97        13        29        10        12        14        16        18        20
IBRD                                 -         -         -         4        23        19        22        33        39        43        53        65       60
Other multilateral                   -         -         -         7        14        21        10        15        16        18        19        21        23
Private                              8       117        96        86        41        98        56        49        18       112       153       200      494
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                             410       623       841      1048      1266      1423      1685      1832      2064      2506      3110      3886      7970
Official                           361       469       609       765       993      1146      1464      1282      1445      1754     2177      2720      5579
Private                             49       154       232       283       273       277       221       550       619       752      933      1166      2391
Undisbursed debt                      274       563       828       881      1237       857       831       521       532       541       650      1000      2000
Debt service
Total service payments                  27       38        58        96       133       182       193       226       280       332       390       475       765
Interest                             8        15        24        40        58        81        61        98       131      149       190       238       497
Payments as % exports 1/                 2.7      3.2       4.0       5.3        5.4       5.7      6.1       6.8       7.2       7.3       7.9       8.5      10.0
Average interest rate
on new loans (2)                         2.4       6.0      6.3       5.3       6.8       5.3       6.0       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
Average maturity
of new loans (years)                   25.6       14.4     18.1      21.4      14.8      17.7      20.1      17.0      17.0      17.0      17.0      17.0      17.0
Average grace
of new loans (years)                    6.6        3.5      5.6       4.7       3.8       4.3       5.0       4.1       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0
As 1 of Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent Year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                          46.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                          93.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                           6.0
--  Data not available.                                                                                                                EMENA CPII-D
1/  Exports of goods and services including remittances.                                                                              November 198:1
2/  Excluding unrequited transfers by long tern resident workers abroad.
3/ Preliminary estimates for the first three quarters of 1983 appear to indicate that the current account is
likely to show a deficit as a result of shortfall in merchandise exports and grants.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 Df 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
----------US$ Million--------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number  Year         Borrower        Purpose                Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Fifteen credits
fully disbursed    Jordan                                               86.1
Two loans fully
disbursed                                                  50.0
1781   1979           Jordan         Education III          19.0                    9.3
1826   1980             "            CVDB                   10.0                    7.3
1893   1980                          Urban Development    21.0                     16.4
1986   1981                          Power IV               25.0                   10.0
2068   1982                          Education IV           25.0                   22.8
2162   1982                          Power V                35.0                   29.0
2213   1983                          Water Supply and
Sewerage          17.0                  16.9
2246   1983                          Education V            18.8                   18.7
2334   1983                          Urban Transport        30.0                   30.0
2371   1984 b/                       Energy Devt. I         30.0                   30.0
2378   1984 b/                       Education VI           40.0                   40.0
TOTAL                                                      320.8         86.1    230.4
of which has been repaid                    0.6         2.3
Total now held by Bank/IDA c/              320.2        83.8
Total undisbursed                                       -      230.4
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/ Not yet effective.
c/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX LI
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
-------US$ Million------
Year            Obligor          Type of Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Inl.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles            1.6       0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.              Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7          88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate               Building Materials       2.5       0.7        3.2
1979     Jordan Securities       Money & Capital
Corp.                   Market                            0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                           0.3        0.3
Total Commitments                              83.6 1/  10.6        94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      56.4 1/   0.7        57.1 1/
Total Commitments now haeld by IFC                   27.2       9.9      37.1
Total Undisbursed                                -         -          -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare                  One year, from
the project;                                          November 19382
to November 1983.
(b)  The Agency which has prepared the                     Water Authority
project;                                              and Water Supply
Cor.P. , with
assistance from
USAID.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank                December 1982 and
date of first Bank mission                            February 1983.
to consider the project;
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;               November 13, 1983.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;                   April 13, 1984.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.                        October, 1984.
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
1.  Conditions of Effectiveness;
(a)    The Government and the Water Authority (WA) will sign a
subsidiary loan agreement (para. 48).
2. Other Measures:
(a)    The WA will provide financial assistance to lower income
families who will have difficuLties in meeting the expenses
for new sewer connections (para. 35).
(b)    The WA will set up and adequately staff, by end-1984, a
project management unit; provide sufficient water suppLy,
in a timely manner, to the project area (para. 35).



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)    The Government will compensate the WA for any deficits
resulting from its services by tankers and water points
(para. 43).
(d)    WA will;  (i) for its metered water services, cover, as of
1985, its operating and maintenance expenses (excluding
depreciation), the greater of debt service or depreciation,
increased working capital, and finance not less than
5 percent of the average investment cost in 1987 and 1988
and 10 percent in 1989 and thereafter; (ii) for its
sewerage operations, cover operating and maintenance
expenses (excluding depreciation) and the greater of debt
service or depreciation; and (iii) WA would provide the
Bank three months before the beginning of each fiscal year,
copies of its forecast budget for the fiscal year,
financial projections for the following two years, as well
as any proposals for adjustments in tariffs (para. 43).






I                     r. AE                                 S Y R I A N   A R A B3
.: / \C ,'J R D N A 
i=ER; -  . - = i  s^:;|;- -      EIGHT CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT
_   0   ;t      .'=j :   J  S3      _ ,  E WATER SOURCES AND SUPPLIES TO MUNICIPAL SYSTEMS
(  5;    -   =-   ; - i   i  =/  :it   t   i't~~~~~               ¾,   Pr -  .   ti e s l 
'31    IQ_J>                       i   !r                  Jpcs;r3cntJto
(I 75;                              '  : r ,           *   R#e,ei3
I /{   tW   >   }    S . $' , >   S  rlara P -cc.....
/';S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,, .,d -7d1--,,,,i
j ~ ~ ~ /_                                                   _    poso\8D  FF;. ,   t 3  C '
j  7t                                                     Ml, OtIt .'ed  .dd  beds
I SR E R AEL      (-g                                                                 \
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L 3Mv&w ....~~.                         7 k-     3          7-'   cr0     3     3'        0 
/  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
)  ceco  /  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''D
ARA  C
WADI Et 'UU. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    <



II
I



