Dowuue.tof
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CK~ ~~ 2r- 4R7
ReP_t Nh. P-3929-EE
RWORT AND RECOMMENDATION
;                                          OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELCImENT AssociATiON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVECPMNET CREDIT
OF SDR 9.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC rF EQUAORIAIA GUINEA
FOR A
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 18, 1985
I&dOeeMt4 ho a tekeidisdbiImt  md may be and by ypredlm adyir dush peufWmm  of
sUclal d kst lb ON&*s may s  dlh   be dcmi lh   Wr             w           Ibw __si



CURICY EQUIVALETS
Currency Uit   -  Epkwele; plural, Bipkwele (BK)
US$1.00    =  BK 314 (Official Rate)
BE 1.000   = US$3.18 (Official Rate)
BK 1.000   =  US$0.67 (Parallel Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (kin)    =  0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)     =  2.205 poumds
I metric ton (t)    =  0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIEONS AID ACRONMS
ACD       Agricultural Credit Department of the BCD
BADEA.    Banque Arabe pour le Diveloppement Economique en Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BCD       Banco de Credito y Desarrollo (Credit and Development Bank)
BE&C      Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Bank of the Central
African States)
BGE       Banco de Guinea Ecuatorial (Bank of Equatorial Guinea, the Central
Bank)(until January 1, 1985)
CAADP     Caja Aut &oma de Awortizaci6n de la Deuda Pu^blica (Autonomous Fund for
the Amortization of the Public Debt)
CAMARA    Csmara Oficial de Comercio Agricola y Forestal (Chamber of Commerce
for Agriculture and Forestry of Bioko)
CFA       Comun-ate Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CPNCU     Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit
CSmu      Credit Supervision and Monitoring Uuit
ECU       European Currency Unit
EEC       Commission of the European Communities
ITC       International Trade Center (Geneva)
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock. and Rural Development
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
UDEAC     Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Customs
Union of the Central African States)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/  Equatorial Guinea used the epkvele, which vas officially linked to the Spanish
peseta, untLi January 1, 1985, when the country entered the African Financial
Community (Communauti Financiere Africaine--CPA).  Since January 13, 1985. the
CFA franc is the only currency accepted as legal tender.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUAIORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Beneficiaries:            Credit and Development Bank (BCD), Chamber of
Commerce for Agriculture and Forestry (CAMARA)J and
MHnistry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural
*                              Development (MOA)
Credit Amount:            SDR 9.1 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Cofinanciers:             Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA). Commission of the European Communities
(EEC), OPEC Fund for International Development
Onlending interest Rate: 8 percent from the Central Bank to the BCD and 15
percent (to be modified yearly, as necessary, in
consultation with IDA) from the BCD to the farmers.
Project Description:      In accordance with the Government's top priority for
the agricultural sector-to restore cocoa production
and exports so as to generate foreign exchange and to
redress a marked negative trade balance-the objectives
of the proposed project are (a) to alleviate the
constraints currently impeding the increased production
of cocoa; and (b) to establish the necessary
infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development
in the cocoa sub-sector in the future.
To achieve these objectives, project actions would
(a) provide agricultural credit to meet the seasonal,
medium-term, and long-term financing needs of
creditworthy farmers and cooperatives; and (b) improve
and strengthen the capacity and operational efficiency
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural
Development (MOA) and the project implementing agencies
through the international recruitment of five
specialists, on-the-job and overseas training of local
staff, improvement of buildings and operating
facilities, and provision of vehicles and office
equipment.
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckosed without World Bank authorization-



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:
The principal quantifiable benefits of the project would derive from
nhe increased production and exportation of cocoa. By the sixth year after
project inception, the end of the investment period, production on project farms
would have increased by 3,140 tous, cc 210 percent of the pzoduction without the
project. By the twelftb year after project inception, wven all farms
benefitting from the project would be at full development, total production on
these farms would have increased by 4,160 tons (280 percent of estimated
production without the project). The f.o.b. value in 1984 constant terms of
project-engendered cocoa esports wuwld reRcin US$4.6 million in the sixth year
after project inception and US$7.2 million in the twelfth year after project
inception.  Project actions to reinforce the CAMARA's capacity to monitor and
control exports would ensure that revenues from expo-ts would be repatriated
into the Equato-Guinean banking system. amportant non-quantifiable benefits
would also resuLt from the reform and strengthening of the BCD, the CAMARA, and
the MOA, and this improvement in institutional performance would help to
ameliorate the climate for investment in the cocoa sub-sector and lead to
greater investor confidence in t-he agricultural sector in general.
There are no significanc technical risks, since the agronomic
techniques to be employed are well known by the target population. Lower than
anticipated participation is nor ccnsidered a risk in view of the measures to be
undertaken under the project to improve producer incentives. The major project
risks arise from the country's weak pub±iz administration and the lack of public
confidence in its authorities. The project has been designed to minimize these
risks, with limited, short-term objectizes, built-in safeguards, and provision
cf technical assistance for the project implementing agencies and the MOA.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
~~'US$ million
Institution-Building
BCD                               0.4        1.1         1.5
CAMARA                            0.5        1.4         1.9
MOA                               0.2        0.9         1.1
1981 PPF                            -       0.2          0.2
Credit to Farmers                   1.7        5.9         7.6
Total Base Costs                  2.8        9.5        12.3
Physical Contingencies              0.2        1.0          1.2
Price Contingencies                 0.7        2.0         2.7
Total Costs (incl. taxes)         3.7       12.5        16.2
raxes                              (0.7)                  (0.7)
Total Costs (net of taxes)        3.0       12.5        15.5



Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
IDA                                    9.3
BADEA a/                                2.8
EEC b/                                 0.9
OPEC c/                                 1.0
Government                              2.2
Total                                16.2
a/ Loan: 16 years' maturity; 5 years' grace; 6 vercent interest.
b/  Grant:  ECE 1.2 million (US$0.9 million equivalent).
cl Loan: 17 years' maturity; 5 years' grace; interest-free;
service charge 1 percent per annum on amounts vithdrawn and outstanding.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
84/85    85186    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90
US$ mill-on
Annual                   1.7       1.2      1.9      2.2      1.5      0.8
Cumulative               1.7      2.9       4.8      7.0      8.5      9.3
Estimated Project Completion Date: December 31, 1989
Estimated Rate of Return: 44%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4933-EG dated January 16. 1985
Map: IBRD 17954



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE h-TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENiT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDrT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the equivalent
of SDR 9.1 million (US$9.3 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
cocoa rehabilitation project. The proposed project would be cofinanced
with a loan of US$2.8 million from the Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA), a grant of ECU 1.0 million (US$0.9 million) from the
Commission of the European Communities (EEC), and a loan of US$1.0 million
from the OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Equatorial Guinea-an Introductory Economic
Report" (Report No. 4011-EG) was distributed to the Board on June 15, 1983.
Since then, the Bank Group has monitored the economy with the help of IMF
reports and several missions, the latest of which took place in August
1984. The findings of these missions have been integrated into this
report.
Political Situation
3.        When Equatorial Guinea, a former cverseas province of Spain,
became independeat in October 1968, its per capita income was one of the
highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Although the distribution of income was
highly skewed, most of the population had access to educational and health
facilities and basic consumer goods. The population, however, was even
less prepared to manage the country's economy and social institutions than
was the case in other African countries which had gained political
independence in the 1960s. Equato-Guineans had not been sufficiently
trained to take over administrative and managerial positions in the
Government or in business, a situation which was aggravated by the rather
sudden exodus of the Spanish expatriate community following the arrival of
Macias Nguema in power. During the subsequent eleven years of his regime,
the economy was seriously mismanaged, agricultural production declined
drastically, basic services in health care, education, and public utilities
such as water and electricity were not maintained, and roads and ports
deteriorated. Foreign investment came te a halt, and the state-operated
trading system broke down. The public administration virtual]y ceased to
operate, barter trade increased, and the population at large barely managed
to survive at a subsistence level. Consequently, Equatorial Guinea's per
capita income dropped from US$212 at the er.d of the 1960s to an estimated



US$175 in 1981, both in current terms. The decline in the standard of
living during the 1970s was matched by few other countries in Africa. In
addition, violations of human rights, including the arbitrary execution of
thousands of intellectuals and others, caused approximately one third of
the population to flee the country.
4.        In August 1979, a military junta deposed President Macias and
established a Supreme Military Council headed by President Lieutenant
Colonel Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.  The new Government took a number of
steps to restore a measure of democratic process.   A new constitution
replacing the Supreme Military Council with a President and Ministers and
creating a National Assembly and a judicial system was approved in a
national referendum in August 1982, although President Nguema Mbasogo
continues to head the Government during a seven-year transition period.
The country's political isolation has been overcome as Spain, France, other
countries, and international organizations have resumed their financial and
technical cooperation.
Economic Potential and Recent Developments
5.        Equatorial Guinea, a small and sparsely populated country of
28,051 km2, is situated in and adjacent to the Gulf of Guinea, and consists
of two parts: Continental Guinea and Insular Guinea. Continental Guinea,
named Rio Muni. is adiacent to Cameroon and Gabon. Insular Guinea
comprises Bioko (where Malabo, the capital, is located), and five smaller
islands. Malabo is situated 250 km from Bata, the main citv of Rio Muni,
which renders communications and administration difficult. In the early
1970s, Bioko, which is more developed and urbanized, produced approximately
half of Equatorial Guinea's GDP and had a per capita income twice as high
as that of Rio MIuni, where approximately 80 percent of the total population
(350,000 in mid-1983, according to the 1983 census) live. Only about 28
percent of the population live in urban centers.
6.        Equatorial Guinea's economy is based on agriculture, including
fishing and forestry, which provides a living for some 80 percent of the
population and accounts for about 50 percent of GDP and for virtually all
exports. Although subsistence agriculture predominates, the cash
crops--cocoa, coffee, and timber--provide the population with monetary
income. Manufacturing exists only embryonically in the form of some wood
and cocoa processing and has in the past accounted for approximately 5
percent of GDP. Commerce accounts for about 10 percent, and construction,
public works, and services comprise roughly one third of GDP.   The Gulf of
Guinea has abundant fish resources, and Rio Muni also offers good
opportunities for river fishing. Preliminary mineral surveys have found
encouraging indications of titanium, iron ore, silica, manganese, uranium
and alluvial gold. Oil exploration has been going on since the mid-1960s;
recently, exploration activities have increased with assistance to the
Government from Spain, the UN, and the World Bank.
7.        The island of Bioko, where the country's main cash crop, cocoa,
is grown, benefits from rainfall throughout the year. Rio Muni, which is
covered with large forests, has a more pronounced drv season. The two main



- 3 -
parts of the country have different economic bases.  While cocoa growing is
the dominant economic activity on Bioko, with food-crop production in
second place (tubers are commonly planted where cocoa trees have died),
farmers in Rio Muni concentrate on growing food crops, and cocoa and coffee
are supplementary cash crops. Bioko's cocoa was traditionally sold on the
world market and foodstuffs were imported to feed the local population and
the large numbers of foreign contract workers on the plantations.
Consequently, shortages of imported food have far more serious consequences
for living standards on Bioko than on the mainland.  In Rio Muni. there
were few plantations, and the small farmers grew their own food and sold
their coffee and cocoa to estates or cooperatives. Farmers on the
continent produce food on about 0.75 ha, utilizing a dual cropping system
per year; standards of crop management and yields are low, and hardly any
surplus over and above family subsistence is produced.
8.        Following the 1979 coup d'etat, the Government concentrated on
returning the country to political stability and re-establishing the legal
and administrative framework needed to support the economic reconstruction
process and to attract and coordinate foreign aid. This fundamental task
has been achieved, but the economic performance over the past five years
has been only modest. Although food-crop production has risen, it has
remained low by West African standards. Production of cocoa, which in 1981
and 1982 appeared to be beginning to recover from its very low level in
1980, declined again in 1983 and 1984. Timber production, though having
increascd tenfold from the very low production levels in the late 1970s,
has also remained far below its estimated potential.
Budgetary Situation
9.        The devastation of Equatorial Guinea's economy in the 1970s was
accompanied by the complete disarray of its public finances. Under the
Macias regime, public financial transactions were recorded only
sporadically, and the accounts of the Treasury, the Bank of Equatorial
Guinea (Central Bank), and the public enterprises were not kept separate.
The new Government reintroduced regular budgetary and banking procedures
with technical assistance from the IMF, France, and Spain, and in April
1980, the first formal budget since 1974 was enacted. During the past two
years, the budgetary process and fiscal discipline have been considerably
improved by implementing a system fo recording revenues and expenditures
on a monthly basis from the beginning of the vear, which makes it possible
to monitor fiscal performance throughout the year.
10.       In spite of the Government's reconstruction efforts, large
budgetarv deficits have resulted from the slow economic recovery, the lack
of a well-defined, centralized system to control expenditures, and the
haphazard and intermittent collection of revenues. Extrabudgetary
expenditures, in particular current expenditures, have been a serious
problem. Consequently, budgetary deficits averaged about 50 percent of



- 4 -
budgetary revenues during the period 1980-84. -    Most of the deficits
have been financed by the Central Bank.   The recen, substantial
devaluation of the national currency (para. 19), the country's membership
in the franc zone, and the technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance
from other BEAC member countries and France are expected to improve
Government control over revenues and expenditures significantly.
Balance of Payments
11.       During most of the 1970s, Equatorial Guinea's balance of payments
recorded surpluses. This phenomenon was due mainly to low levels of
imports, as foreign financing became difficult tc acquire. International
transactions were handled by the Government or state enterprises, and only
the most essential goods were imported.
12.       Following the liberalization of the trade and payments system in
1980, the balance of payments deteriorated drastically. Merchandise
imports more than doubled, from an annual average of US$16 million during
the period 1977-79 to an annual average of US$39 million during the period
1980-83. At the same time, merchandise exports, though recovering slowly
from their record low level of only US$14 million in 1980, remained far
below potential. Three factors were responsible for the disappointing
export performance: (i) very low cocoa exports (only 7,400 metric tons a
yeax during the period 1980-83, compared to 37,000 tons a year during the
late 1960s); (ii) the low quality of the country's cocoa, resulting from
the years of neglect and translating into low unit values, and (iii)
declining cocoa prices on the world market. Timber exports increased by
four and a half times over the same period, but a,,eraged only 58,000 m3 a
year during the period 1980-83, compared to about 350,000 m3 a year in the
late 1960s. Substantial underinvoicing of both cocoa and timber exports
have contributed to a decline in Equatorial Guinea's estimated terms of
trade (based on actual unit values) of 38 percent between 1980 and 1983.
13.       The services balance has also deteriorated rapidly since 1980,
mainly because of the resumption of interest payments on the country's
external debt, while net transfer payments have steadily risen.
Consequently, the current-account balance has deteriorated from an
estimated average annual surplus of about US$6 million during the period
1976-79 to an average annual deficit of US$23 million during the period
1980-83, or about 12 percent of estimated GDP, on average. Net capital
inflows rose significantly during the period 1980-82 but declined sharply
in 1983, reflecting the administration's inadequate capacity to prepare and
implement investment projects. The overall balance of payments deficit has
averagee US$17 million a year during the period 1980-83. Equatorial
Guinea's international reserves fell sharply, from US$17 million at the end
1/   These deficits do not include capital expenditures financed by
external sources, since the budget does not include foreign-financed
investments.



-5-
of 1980 (equivalent to 23 weeks of imports), to US$1.5 million at the end
of 1983 (equivalent to 2.3 weeks of 1983 imports), reflecting the balance
of payments deficits over this period.
External Debt
14.       At the end of 1983, Equatorial Guinea's outstanding debt
(including undisbursed debt) was estimated at US$138 million. Following a
stagnation during the second half of the 1970s, disbursements increased
rapidly during the early 1980s, reflecting the establishment of lines of
credit for consumption purposes and the resumption of some investment
activities. Disbursed and outstanding debt has consequently tripled, from
US$34 million in 1979 to US$103 million in 1983 (or 53 percent of estimated
GDP). Equatorial Guinea's medium- and lorg-term debt consists
predominantly of bilateral lines of credit and of credits extended through
financial institutions, while concessional loans from multilateral
development agencies or bilateral creditors represent only a small part.
Since the repayment periods of these lines of credit are comparatively
short, Equatorial Guinea's scheduled debt service has risen from almost
US$3 million in 1980 to US$21 million in 1983, or from 17 percent of
exports of goods and services to 95 percent. Although the country has
increased its debt service payments by more than four times since 1979,
debt service payments in 1983 amounted to only US$5 million, which amounts
to an actual debt service ratio of about 23 percent. Equatorial Guinea has
received debt relief through debt reschedulings with Spain. its main
creditor, China, the second most important creditor, and others.
Nevertheless, further substantial debt relief through rescheduling will be
necessary over the next few years, since the country's own resources will
be insufficient to service the public debt fullv and regularly.
15.       The recording and management of Equatorial Guinea's external debt
continues to be very weak. No systematic debt recording took place over
many years, and documents have often been destroyed or lost. The Bank and
the IMF have been assisting the Government in making an inventory of the
external debt. An autonomous public debt agency was established in 1983,
and a resident expert is currently being recruited under the IDA-finarxced
Technical Assistance Project (para. 25). He will assist the Government in
improving public debt recording, reporting, and management.
Development Constraints, Policy, and Prospects
16.       At an International Donors' Conference held in Ceneva in April
1982, the Government presented its Reconstruction Program: 1982-84. The
program was intended to form a link between the emergency measures of
1980-81 and the medium-term development plans the Government hoped to bcgin
preparing in 1985. The original Program aimed at revitalizing domestic
food production, stimulating exports of cash crops, and providing basic
infrastructure; it has since been modified to give even more emphasis to
agriculture. The donors' conference also provided, for the first time
since Independence, and after many years of isolation, a forum to present
the country's economic situation and development needs to the international



community. It provoked a great deal of interest in Equatorial Guinea's
problems but generated little additional aid because it was overly
ambitious, lacked focus, and propised projects which were insufficiently
prepared. Moreover, since most bilateral and international donors were
still too unfamiliar with conditions in Equatorial Guinea, they hesitated
to agree to finance projects.
17.       Equatorial Guinea's economic recovery over the past five years
has been constrained by three major factors. First and foremost, the
country suffers from a severe shortage of skilled persons at all levels.
Second, the former national currency (the epkwele) was greatly overvalued
and inconvertible. A low level t.f exports, a shortage of foreign exchange,
and a strong excess demand for imported goods had resulted in a parallel
exchange rate which differed significantly from the official rate. The
overvalued exchange rate, generally low wages, and government intervention
in many economic activities led to major price distortions which
discouraged agricultural production in particular and economic activities
in general. Third, the country's dilapidated physical infrastructure
continues to hamper the reconstruction efforts of the Government and the
private sector.
18.       During the period 1980-84, the Government introduced a series of
policy measures aimed at revitalizing agricultural production and exports.
Cocoa and coffee producer prices have been increased fivefold since 1979,
and the cocoa export tax has been reduced by two thirds. Foreign
plantation owners were invited to return to the country and resume cocoa
production, and seasonal credits were provided at a modest level. A new
forestry law was promulgated in order to spur foreign investment in the
forestry sector. Such measures, however, provided insufficient stimulation
for production, since they did not remove price distortions nor address the
shortage of foreign exchange.
19.       In 1984, the Government therefore began to address the country's
development constraints with boldei and more comprehensive measures.
Equatorial Guinea joined the Central African Customs Union (UJDEAC) on
January 1, 1984, and the Government began negotiations to enter the Central
African Monetary Union and the region's common central bank (BEAC). The
IMF, BEAC, and France provided technical assistance in determining the
appropriate exchange rate between the epkwele and the CFA franc and in
other areas of financial expertise during the country's transition into the
new currency zone. The physical replacement of the epkwele with the CFA
franc took place in early January 1985 and was accompanied by a substantial
devaluation of the epkwele. An agreement between the Government and the
IMF on an economic and financial adjustment program is expected to be
reached in early 1985 and supported by a stand-by arrangement.
20.       After a decade of economic decline, followed by these important
policy measures, the prospects for a recovery of Equatorial Guinea's
economy in the medium term are good. Production of the country's export
commodities can be expected to increase steadily, providing a base for
developing domestic food production and marketing. At a later stage, a
small-scale manufacturing industry could be re-established around cocoa,



- 7 -
coffee, and timber production. In addition, oil and other mineral
resources, if they materialize, will substantially speed the country's
medium-term development. However, Equatorial Guinea's very limited
capacity for identifying, planning, and implementing investment projects as
well as for generally managing the economy will continue to be the
country's most serious development constraint for some time. Technical
assistance provided by the international community, includi-&g the Bank
Group, is expected to mitigate this obstacle gradually over the next few
years.
21.       Because of the country's poverty aaid the Government's continuing
severe financial difficulties, Equatorial Guinea is not creditworthy for
conventional borrowing, and donors should extend their assistance on highly
concessional terms. During the economy's recovery phase in the 1980s,
public savings net of debt service are likely to be negative. The
Government's contribution to public investments will therefore remain
modest, at best, for several years. If the country's administrative
capacity continues to improve, foreign donors should be prepared to assist
new development projects and development programs, financing a high
proportion of project costs, including a substantial portion of local
costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EQUATORIAL GUINEA
22.       The Bank Group's assistance strategy is based on the recognition
that (a) the country's large internal and external imbalances are a
reflection of its current reconstruction efforts, which necessitate a
certain level of budgetary expenditures and imports which initially cannot
be expected to generate budgetary revenues and foreign exchange, (b) the
shortage of skilled administrators and trained personnel in all fields
hinders the reconstruction efforts as much as the destruction of the
physical capacity, and (c) the Bank Group's assistance efforts will have to
be closely coordinated with other donors if they are to be successful. The
Bank Group's assistance strategy therefore consists of the following key
elements:
(a) supporting the Government's short-term stabilization efforts
through provision of policy and technical advice;
*                (b)  increasing the country's access to essential imports through an
emergency rehabilitation import credit;
(c) helping to increase the country's exports through a cocoa
rehabilitation project; and
(d) helping to mobilize concessionary financing for high-priority
operations through aid coordination and cofinancing.
23.       Before the present Government came to power in August 1979, the
Bank Group had approved only one project in Equatorial Guinea, a Highways



- 8 -
Project (Credit 362-EG) for which an IDA Credit of US$2.0 millien
equivalent was approved in March 1973.  Only minimal disbursements were
made under the project, and the Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the
Government's recuest.  Economic and political conditions during most of the
1970s made it impossible for the Bank Group to pursue a meaningful economic
dialogue with the Covernment, much less to finance projects, althougb
periodic efforts were made to ascertain whether the situation had improved
sufficiently to reconmmence lending.
24.       Under the new Government, the Bank Group cautiously reinitiated
activities in the countrv. The first activity was to execute a
Ul'DP-financed technical assis:ance project in the petroleum sector.  This
project was folloved by an IDA-financed technical assistance proiect in the
petroleum sector (Credit 1304-EG), for which an IDA Credit of US$2.4
million equivalent was approved in November 1982. The project is assisting
the Government in establishing and staffing a Department of Petroleum
Affairs and in establishing an energy-sector data base. The Credit became
effective I.. May 1983, and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
albeit at a slower pace than originally envisaged, due mainly to the
Government's lack of familiarity with Bank procedures and to difficulties
in transmission of written communications.
25.       A technical assistance project addressing several different
sectors was approved by the Board on May 31, 1984.  It aims at helping the
Government elaborate key elements of its development strategy and
investment program, including specific development projects. The project
is also expected to help create conditions conducLve to public- and
private-sector investments in the key growth sectors of agriculture,
forestrv, and mining and in the critically important social sector of
education. Whereas the proposed cocoa rehabilitation project would
concentrate op agriculture on the island of Bioko, the expertise provided
to the agricultural sector under the technical assistance project focuses
on agricultural development in Rio Muni. After an unexpectedly large
number of proposals were received, the Goverrnent has selected the experts
and is now proceeding with their recruitment.
26.       A rehabilitation import credit (para. 22(b)) is being prepared
which aims at helping to alleviate the countrv's critical balance-of-
pavments situation during the next twc to three years. This operation,
which we hope to present to the Board in earlv FY86, would be
quick-disbursing and would finance the importatior. of essential items for
the agricultural and transportation sectors (and, possibly, the electricity
and water-supplv sectors). For the agricultural sector. items necessary to
help revitalize agricultural production, such as inputs, equipment, and
machinery might be imported; care would be taken to avoid duplication with
the inputs being financed under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. For the
transportationr sector, items necessarv to support agricultural production,
such as spare parts, gasoline, road maintenance equipment and machinery,
and trucks might he imported. In addition to helping the Government
through the difficult transition period following entry to the CFA franc
zone, the operation would also improve the environment fcr the



- 9 -
implementation of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project and would assist the
Government in preparing future projects in key sectors. This operation is
being carefully coordinated with the efforts of the IMF, France, and Spain.
A prerequisite for the operation would be to reach agreement with the
Government on the items to be imported and the mechanisms by which they
would be imported.
27.       Given the country's severe economic proble   and limited
absorptive capacity, the Bank Group's strategy in Equatorial Guinea until
now has been to encourage the Government to concentrate its own and
external donors' scarce resources on the country's productive sectors.
those which could rapidly increase the country's foreign-exchange earnings
and Government revenues, and to increase its capacitv to prepare and
implement investmert projects. Should the Government's efforts in the
petroleum and cocoa sec ors prove successful, the Association would be
prepared to continue its assistance to these sectors and, gradually, to
consider financing or cofinancing projects in a few other priority sectors
such as forestry, coffee, and foodcrop production on the continent. A
highway rehabilitation project will evertually be necessary to support the
agricultural production and marketing, and a consultant transportation
economist has begun a short-term assignment gauging the transportation
sector's needs for material and technical assistance. Finally, UNESCO has
recently prepared a report on the education sector, and a Bank mission has
identified a possible project in education.
PART III - THE COCOA SUB-SECTOR
Historical Context
28.       Cocoa has traditionally been Equatorial Guinea's most important
export commodity. Since 1970, it has accounted for between 66 percent and
90 percent of the country's annual export earnings. Cocoa has thus
retained its rank as the most important export in spite of a significant
decline in volume exported, from an annual average of 31,500 t in the
period 1969-71 to an annual average of 7.500 t in the period 1980-82 ard
about 7.000 t in 1983. Cocoa's traditional importance has resulted from
the combination of a warm, humid climate and fertile volcanic soils on
Bioko, which provides ideal growing conditions for cocoa trees. Moreover,
the only significant disease risk, black pod disease (Phytophthora sp.) can
be readily controlled through periodic spraying with simple copper
sulfate-based fungicides. In the past, sufficient numbers of workezs were
available, principally foreign workers, who numbered about 30,000 at peak
periods of employment. As a consequence, average yields attained 850
kg/ha, with yields of 1,000 kg/ha being commonplace in large estates and
recorded yields of up to 2,000 kg/ha in selected micro-climatic zones of
the island. Such yields greatly exceeded those attainable on Rio Muni and
Xr other producer countries in West Africa (approximately 400 kg/ha).
Equatorial Guinea's cocoa also enjoyed the reputation of being of very high
quality and typically commanded a price premium in world markets.



- 10 -
29.       Since 1968. both the quality of cocoa and the amount of cocoa
produced have declined. During the decade 1969-79. most of the 150 largest
estates, which together covered about 25,000 ha, or 55 percent of the total
of 45,700 ha planted in cocoa, were abandoned, mainly because most foreign
managers and workers fled the country, but also because all farmers,
regardless of farm size, decreased to a significant extent the area under
production. Major factors causing this situation were (a) the low producer
prices linked to the overvaluation of the national currency, and (b) the
unavailability of basic necessities and consumer goods in rural areas due
to the lack of foreign exchange. Furthermore, the shortages of fungicides,
field tools, and hired labor meant that the area remaining under
cultivation was less intensely maintained and harvested, and the lack of
fuel and spare parts prevented adequate operation of mechanical drying
equipment. The result was a drop in dry cocoa yields from about 850 kg/ha
at the end of the 1960s to 400 kg/ha by 1979-82, with average quality
deteriorating to the point where the prices of exported cocoa were
discounted up to 7 percent relative to standard world market prices.
30.       Nevertheless, a recovery in cocoa production on Bioko is
feasible, since the yield potential has not been significantly impaired in
spite of the years of neglect of the plantations. The general condition of
plantations is poor but varies among farms and locations, with smallholder
plantations generally better maintained than larger estates. In all cases,
relatively simple and low-cost weeding, pruning, and tree removal, along
with fungicide and fertilizer treatments, could result in a significant
growth in yields u±thin two to three years. An increase in yields,
however, can only be achieved if measures are taken concurrently to restore
productf.on incentives, including adequate farmgate prices for cocoa. In
consultation with IDA, the Government has already announced the producer
price for the 1985 campaign. In addition, the Government has given an
assurance that no later than January 31 of each year, it would set an
adequate farmgate price for cocoa, subject to a formula acceptable to IDA,
which would reflect movements in world market prices and also provide a
posit ve return to the producer (Section 4.03 of the draft Development
Credi Agreement-hereafter, 'the DCA"). In addition, the Government has
improned producer inctntives by devaluing the epkwele to a rate reflecting
its real value and by ensuring the convertibility of its national currency
by replacing the devalued epkwele with the CFA franc (para. 18).
Production and Farm Structure
31.       Of the total area planted in cocoa (45,700 ha), about 8,000 ha
(17 percent) are held by some 1.650 smallholders organized in cooperatives,
about 6,300 ha (14 percent) are held by some 240 independent smallholders,
about 9,000 ha (20 percent) are held by some 30 owners of medium-sized
estates, and about 10,400 ha (23 percent) are held by owners of large
estates. On average, only 52 percent of this land is being actively
exploited. Obviously, there is considerable available but presently
unexploited capacity to produce cocoa, distributed among all farms,
regardless of size, which could be easily brought back into production.
Moreover, an additional 12,000 ha %26 percent), consisting of large
estates, used to be held by Spaniards (para. 29). Thnese were dispossessed



- 11 -
under the Kacias regime but were invited to regain possession of their
former plantations in the early 1980s. With insufficient labor, unhealthy
trees, and badly deteriorated infrastructure, most of them were unable to
make a profit with cocoa, and they left the country again, many of them
after obtaining, but not repaying, sizable loans from Equato-Guinean banks.
After their departure, and until the land tenure problems could be
resolved, rhese estates were leased by the Government on a one-year basis
to Equato-Guineans. The Equato-Guinean and Spanish Governments discussed
this matter in mid-1983, and in May 1984, most of the estates abandoned by
expatriate owners who had not accepted the Government's offers to regain
possession of their lands and recommence cultivating them were
nationalized.  The project would not involve this land.
Institutions
32.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development
(MOA) has overall responsibility for policy and programs in the agri-
cultural sector. For cocoa production, it is responsible for extension
work, quality control, pricing policy, and the formulation of
recommendations for input and credit use. However, as is true for most
public institutions in the country, the MOA has virtually no equipment or
funds to support its operations other than those provided by foreign
donors. Apart from a few senior staff who have received out-of-country
training and who are well motivated, the general level of staff training,
experience, and motivation is poor. Consequently, senior officials are
overburdened with the minutiae of daily management crises. ThIs is
exacerbated by a high degree of disorganization within the Govemoment and a
lack of clear delineation of ordinary administrative responsibilities among
Ministries.
33.       The Credit and Development Bank (Banco de Credito y Desarrollo-
hereafter, "'the BCD") was established in 1979 as a state-owned b k to
serve as the main source of agricultural credit in the country. -    It is
managed, at the working level, by individuals with good banking training.
However, their work is hampered by material and political constraints.
Specifically, the BCD lacks adequate means to function efficiently,
evaluate creditworthiness or supervise loans, once granted; it also uses
antiquated methods of accounting, recording of transactions, and reporting.
Moreover, the BCD has been unable to secure funds for on-lending from the
Central Bark except on a short-term basis. This has made it unable to
award the medium- and long-term credits necessary for agricultural
irvestments to increase productivity. Borrowers have been required to
reimburse the loans seasonally, even when they were taken for longer-term
It  In addition to the BCD, commercial banking services in Equatorial
Guinea are provided by the "Guinextebank" (Banco Exterior de Guinea
Espafia, a branch of the Banco Exterior de Espania). The BIAO (Banque
Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidental=) is planning to establish a
branch in Equatorial Guinea.



- 12 -
investments. This requirement led to an increased number of late
repayments and defaults. Finally, because of its status as a
Government-owned bank and the weak application of creditworthiness
criteria, the BCD's credit facilities have in the past been severely abused
by powerful Equato-Guineans who have secured loans through influence and
coercion. Consequently, by the beginning of 1983, about 70 percent of the
BCD's loan portfolio was overdue, of which 48 percent was considered as bad
debts or non-performing assets.
34.       The Government recognized the seriousness of this situation and
in February 1983, it launched an intense campaign to recover the BCD's
outstanding loans.  By December 1983, this campaign had resulted in about
60 percent of the overdue loans being repaid or rescheduled. Nevertheless,
the BCD continued to face serious financial problems which needed to be
resolved before the institution could play a role in executing the proposed
project. Therefore, the Government requested independent auditors to audit
the BCD, and as a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 6.01(g) of the
draft DCA), the BCD should present to IDA a Goverrment-approved balance
sheet for 1984, showing that the outstanding debts judged unrecoverable
(overdue for more than one year) have been eliminated from its assets and
assumed by the Autonomous Fund for the Amortization of the Public Debt
(Caja Aut6noma de Amortizaci6n de la Deuda Puiblica-hereafter, "the CAADP")
(an autonomous agencv within the Ministry of Finance).
35.       The Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture and Forestry (CUmara
Oficial de Comercio Agricola y Forestal-hereafter, "the CAM[ARA") was,
during the colonial era, a semi-autonomous organization run by Bioko's
cocoa and coffee estate owners and timber businessmen, along with
representatives of the colonial administration. It coordinated the
collection. exportation, and taxation of the primary agricultural products.
and imported, stored, and distributed production inputs. When transformed
into a state-owned authoritv during the Macias era, the CAMARA was, in
addition, given a monopoly over the exportation of primary agricultural
products from Bioko. However, its operating efficiency soon decreased
because of a progressive deterioration in staffing and management, physical
installations, and operational support. This deterioration, combined with
the CAHARA's lack of information about, and contact with world markets, and
reduced cooperation from Equato-Guinean producers, meant that the CAMARA's
control over the exportaLion of cocoa, coffee, and timber declined
steadily. In recent years, the CAMARA's operations of importing and
distributing agricultural inputs have also dwindled, due to a lack of
foreign exchange to purchase inputs overseas and to poor administrative
procedures. Finally, as with the BECD., the CAMARA has been unable to
control the sale of inputs or. credit to influential Equato-Guineans. Bv
1983, the CAMARA had outstanding debts of almost US$4.3 million equivalent.
36.       To remedy this situation, the Government, at the beginning of
1983, created a high-level commission with power to restructure the CAMARA
and restore its financial soundness and operating efficiency. To assist
this commission in formulating and implementing the required measures, the
Government, with funding from- an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF)(para. 38). requested the Tnternational Trade Center (ITC) to



- 13 -
enamine the CAMARA's new draft statutes and organizational structure in
light of the CAMARA's goals and role. Also with funding from the PPF
advance, the Government has requested independant auditors to audit the
CAMARA's accounts and accounting system. As a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 6.01(g) of the draft DCA), the CAMARA should present to
IDA a Government-approved balance sheet for 1984 sboving that the
outstanding debts judged unrecoverable (overdue for more than one year)
have been removed from its assets and assumed by the CAADP (para. 34). IDA
*           has reviewed the draft statutes and ITC's recommendations and has given its
approval. The Government has agreed that all the necessary changes in
these statutes and in the CALARA's organizational and accounting system
reflecting, in particular, the discontinuation of the CAMARA's involvement
in credit activities, would be implemented. As a condition of Credit
effectiveness, the statutes should be amended as agreed (Section 6.01(a) of
the draft DCA). The Government has also appointed a new General Manager
(Interventor), to assist the CAMARA in carrving out its responsibilities
under the project.
Government's Strategy in the Cocoa Sub-Sector
37.       The Government has given high priority to the promotion of cocoa
production, in which the country has a traditional comparative advantage
(para. 28). The Government recognizes that earlier attempts to stimulate
cocoa production by encouraging an indiscriminate expansion of credit and
inputs have led to abuses and difficulties for the institutions involved,
and has designed its strategy for the cocoa sub-sector accordingly. Today,
the Government acknowledges that a viable policy consists of one which
promotes individual initiatives a2nd decision-making, providing correctly
allocated and supervised credit to selected farmers, who will then purchase
inputs and market their crops at more remunerative prices. The Government
also recognizes the importance of establishing adequate incentives for
production, incentives which reflect world market conditions. Finally, the
Government has acknowledged that in the short run, institutional weaknesses
limit the size of the target groups for which actions can be taken.
Therefore, it has accepted the necessity of applying strict commercial
criteria for creditworthiness and supporting those cocoa producers who are
most likely to respond quickly to incentives and improved availability of
inputs. Given the critical nature of the issue of incentives for project
implementation, the Government has taken steps (paras. 18 and 19) to
establish an adequate system of incentives for cocoa producers and
laborers. The Government has also taken steps to establish adequate
incentives for foreign cocoa laborers; in particular. foreign agricultural
workcrs will be provided with free work permits or else will be charged the
same fees as Equato-Guinean workers (Section 3.02(d)(i) of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
38.       The project was identified by an IDA economic mission in January
1981 and was prepared by consultants with strong Bank support and a first
PPF advance of US$200,000, awarded in December 1981. Preparation was
completed in December 1982. An IDA mission appraised the project in
May/June 1983.  At the mission's recommendation, a second PPF advance of
US$750,000 was granted in December 1983 to finance (a) the services of the
technical assistance staff needed to begin strengthening project
institutions, (b) short-term consultancies required to deal with specific
problems, (c) other consultant-related expenses, and (d) a down payment on
the 1985 credit-related import program. Negotiations were held in
Washington on July 11-13, 1984, the Equato-Guinean delegation being headed
by His Excellency Mr. Angel Alogo Nchama, Vice-Minister of Water and
Forestry. Key events and special conditions of the project are listed in
Annex III. Further IDA missions in August 1984 and Noveuber 1984 assisted
the Government with problems related to project start-up. Details of the
proposed project are contained in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 4933-EG,
dated January 16, 1985, which is being circulated separately.
Objectives and Summary Description
39.       The project would assist the Government in achieving its
short-term objectives for economic recovery and in reactivating the
institutional, financial, and incentive systems required for the sustained
recovery of the cocoa sub-sector. It would focus on increasing cocoa
production in the short run, thereby generating quickly the foreign
exchange that is badly needed at the present critical stage (paras. 21 and
26) in Equatorial Guinea's reconstruction efforts. The distributional and
institutional objectives are thus purposely limited; they would be
addressed under a subsequent project. The project would capitalize upon
the earlier substantial investments in cocoa, for which a proven production
technology exists, and would aim at increasing production through: (a)
improved availability of production inputs and credit; and (b) improved
grading and export marketing of cocoa, resulting in more remunerative
prices for producers.  Production increases would be obtained both through
production intensification in plantations currently under cultivation and
through rehabilitation of abandoned areas of these plantations. The
plantations which would benefit from the project represent 17 percent of
the total area planted in cocoa.
40.       The project would consist of (a) reinforcing the Agricutural
Credit Department (ACD) within the BCD, and training Equato-Guineans in
credit supervision; (b) strengthening the CAMARA in input procurement and
distribution, monitoring and control of cocoa exports, and cocoa grading
and quality control; (c) enhancing the MOA's capacity for planning and
monitoring production activities in the cocoa sub-sector by strengthening
the recently created Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit; and (d)



- 15 -
providing agricultural credit to meet the seasonal, medium-term and
long-term financing needs of creditworthy cocoa producers.
Detailed Features
41.       The BCD.  To expand and upgrade the BCD's agricultural credit
operations, the project would provide the services for four years of an
internationally recruited specialist as head of the ACD, with powers to
approve or deny all applications for credit.  The Government has given
assurances that credit would be extended only to those farmers who meet
strict creditworthiness criteria which have been agreed upon with IDA
(Section 3.04 and Schedule 5 of the draft DCA). The ACD would also be
strengthened through the establishment of a Credit Supervision and
Monitoring Unit (CSMU), the main function of which would be to ensure good
supervision and recovery of credit. The CSMU would be headed for four
years by an internationally recruited agronomist with experience in credit
supervision. The CShIJ would assist in the assessment of creditworthiness,
undertake on-farm inspections of the use of loan proceeds, detect emerging
problems and propose corrective action, and determine whether loan
disbursements should continue. Finally, all of the BCD's incremental
recurrent costs would be financed under the project (from the contributions
of both the external donors and the Government, on a sliding scale)
(Sched!le 1, para. 1(5) of the DCA). These needs correspond to costs of
the tecinical assistance team, incremental operating costs, and the total
expenditures for credit-related imports and total cash credit requirements,
less repayment by farmers, taking into account the time lag existing
between, on the one hand, the time when foreign suppliers of imported
agricultural inputs must be paid and the farmers receive the credit and, on
the other hand, the time when farmers repay, from the proceeds of cocoa
exports, the corresponding credit granted to them. Since this time lag
exceeds one year, all of the recurrent costs incurred by the BCD for the
first two years would be financed under the project. Thereafter, only the
incremental portion, i.e., total needs less repayments by farmers, would
need to be financed externally. In view of the country's critical
balance-of-payments situation, external financing of this expenditure under
the project is necessary to ensure timely availability of agricultural
inputs and equipment to farmers.
42.       The CAMARA.  The procurement, storage, and distribution of
agricultural inputs would be handled by the CAMARA's Input Supply Service.
The project would provide, as head of this unit, the services for four
years of an internationally recruited business administrator with
appropriate professional experience in wholesale and retail trade. His
terms of reference would also include general advisory assistance to the
CAMARA's general manager. With regard to cocoa marketing and grading, the
CAMARA's Export Marketing Service would be strengthened, and the CAMARA
would also assume responsibility for cocoa inspection and grading through
the creation of a new Inspection and Grading Service. The Export Marketing
Service and the Inspection and Grading Service would jointly be headed for
three years by an internationally recruited expert with basic training in
agronomy, supplemented with additional training and professional experience
in international cocoa marketing and grading. To carry out its



- 16 -
responsibilities under the project, the CAMARA's management needs to be
strenghtened. A national with qualifications and experience satisfactorv
to the Association has been appointed as Director General of the CAMARA and
is now in post.
43.       The MOA.  To strengthen the capacity of the MOA as the lead
institution for policy and programs in the cocoa sub-sector, the Government
recently created the Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit (CPMCU)
(para. 40). This unit, reporting directly to the Minister, has overall
responsibility for planning and monitoring activities in the cocoa
sub-sector and would also be given specific responsibility for managing the
proposed project. It would first be headed for five years by an
internationally recruited specialist, who would serve as project manager.
The Equato-Guinean counterpart (co-director) has already been designated
and has experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA.  The unit would be
further staffed by an Equato-Guinean cocoa production specialist (already
identified) and a small team, eventually consisting of five field
technicians, in charge of technical work. The project would also provide
secretarial services, transportation, and other operating facilities. IDA
has reviewed and approved the mandate of the CMPCU. Approval of the 1985
budget appropriation for the CPMCU would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the draft DCA). In addition, the
Government has given assurances that during the project implementation
period, the Government would make the necessary annual budget allocations
to the MOA to meet the capital and operating costs of the CPMCU and that,
following project completion, it would continue to fund the CPMCU
adequately so that this unit could pursue its activities on a regular basis
(Sections 3.01(c) and 3.07 of the draft DCA).
44.       Agricultural Credit.  The project would provide both seasonal and
medium- and long-term credit to creditworthy farmers, in the form of cash
for the payment of hired labor and other local costs, and vouchers which
could be redeemed at the CAMARA for agricultural inputs and equipment. In
the first year of the project, farmers would pay a rate of interest of 15
percent on loans, which would cover the cost of money for the BCD (8
percent) plus the administrative costs (4 percent) and a risk premium to
cover the death of debtors and bad debts (3 percent). This rate is
positive in real terms (i.e., more than the prevailing rate of inflation)
and represents a small increase over the present rate (14 percent) applied
by the banking institutions in the country. The Government has given
assurances that it would review interest rates each year in consultation
with IDA (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA). changing them as necessary to
reflect its own cost of capital and the prevailing rate of inflation, I
1,' The rate of inflation in Equatorial Guinea is expected to be lower
than inflation rates prevailing in other UDEAC countries (i.e., 13-15
perceut annually), because of Equatorial Guinea's continued commercial
relationship with alternative sources of supply (notably Spain).



- 17 -
such that the rate it charges will always be positive in real terms. The
BCD would acquire t;ae funds needed to advance credit to farmers from the
Central Bank, in amounts proportional to the pace of the BCD's lending to
farmers, which, in turn, will depend on the number of creditworthy farmers
who present themselves. The BCD would pay an interest rate of 8 percent to
the Central Bank on its annual net debt and would reimburse principal using
repayments received from farmers.
Project Implementatiun
45.       The CPHCU would be responsible for overall project management and
the monitoring of project-related activities, for liaison with
co-financiers, and for the preparation of annual work programs, budlgets,
disbursement requests, and progress reports. The unit would also be
responsible for providing technical support to the BCD and the CAMARA in
cocoa-related production matters, and, with the assistance of consultants,
for preparing the project completion report and the feasibility study for a
possible follow-up project.
46.       Because of the untested environment for the project's activities,
an interim review would be undertaken jointly by the Government, IDA, and
cofinanciers to ascertain progress in project implementation. The date for
undertaking the review would be the earlier of (i) the date when 50 percent
of the Credit had been disbursed, or (ii) March 31, 1987 (the end of the
second year of the project). Disbursement against the credit component
after June 30, 1987, would be conditional on the results and
recommendations of this review (Section 3.10 of the draft DCA).
47.       Staffing, Technical Assistance, and Training.  To ensure the
successful implementation of the proposed project, the five key posts
(director of the ACD and chief of the CSMU' in the BCD; chief of the Input
Supply Service and chief of both the Export Marketing Service and the
Inspection and Grading Service in the CAMARA; and head of the CPMCU in the
MOA) would be filled by internationally recruited specialists with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02(a) of the
draft DCA). The team has already been selected, based cn detailed terms of
reference agreed upon between IDA and the Government, and is being provided
by Landell Mills Associates Limited of Bath, England. Four members of the
team have already arrived in Equatorial Guinea and have been well
integrated into their respective agencies. The fifth specialist should
arrive within the next few weeks. The employment in post of all five of
these experts would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b)
of the draft DCA). The Government has identified the national staff with
whom the internationally recruited staff would be working. Each
internationally recruited specialist would have several national
co-workers, one of whom would eventually be named to succeed the expatriate
specialist upon his departure. The actual successor would be named as
deputy to the expatriate specialist only at the end of the first year; this
length of time is estimated to be necessary to allow all parties to
identify and train capable national deputies for these crucially important
posts. These deputies should be in post not later than one vear after the
arrival of the respective technical assistance staff (Section 3.02(c) of



- 18 -
the draft DCA). To facilitate an eventual transfer of responsibility, one
of the major obligations of the resident expatriate staff will be to
provide the in-service training of their Equato-Guinean counterparts. This
would be done through the preparation of annual work plans specifying the
tasks to be carried out by each expert, his deputy(ies) and others in their
work Group, and also specifying the experts' training responsibilities,
which nationals would je trained, and in what areas. The work plans would
be reviewed and approved by IDA (Section 3.02(c) of the draft DCA). In
addition, formal post-graduate studies (6 man-years) for selected staff of
the BCD, the CAMARA, and the MOA and study tours and short-term training
courses (14 man-months) would be provided under the project at specialized
institutions acceptable to IDA. All training activities would be
programmed and monitored by the CPMCU. Proposals to this effect would be
prepared and submitted to IDA for review during the first year of project
implementation, after the resident specialists have arrived at their posts
and prepared their own detailed work programs.
48.       Studies.  The project would also provide a total of 32 man-months
of short-term consultants to carry out specialized studies and specific
tasks for which a full-time technical assistance post is not justified.
These consultancies have been programmed for: (a) assistance to the ACD
and the CAMARA in the audit of their accounts; (b) provision of managerial
and accounting support to the CAMARA; and (c) technical support to the
CPMCU to carry out specialized investigations in cocoa spraying, drying and
replanting. and to prenare the feasibility study of a possible follow-up
project (para. 43).
Project Costs and Financing
49.       Project costs are estimated at US$16.2 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $12.5 million. These costs include taxes on locally
procured items, but exclude taxes and import duties on direct imports,
since the Government has indicated that these would be waived. Cost
estimates are based on mid-1984 prices, using a shadow exchange rate of
US$1.00 = BK 1,500. This rate reflected the exchange rate on the paraliel
market in mid-1984. The rate was the best estimate of the exchange rate
that would result from a devaluation of the epkwele and the adoption of the
CFA franc as the national currency. The devaluation which took place in
early January 1985 was in fact of roughly this order of magnitude and is
not expected to affect the accuracy of base-cost estimates for the project.
The evolution of unit costs will be closely monitored during early
supervision missions, and project costs will be updated, with targets
adjusted, if needed, during the project interim review (para. 46). It is
further assumed that under the new currency regime, and for the specific
items included in the project, forecasts of international inflation rates
are the best indicators for expected price increases expressed in dollars
for both foreign and local costs. Therefore, price contingencies have been
coumpounded yearly as follows: 3.75 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985,
and 6 percent yearly thereafter. Total contingencies, including physical
contingencies of 10 percent on all items, amount to about 24 percent of
total project costs and 32 percent of base costs.



- 19 -
50.       The proposed project would be financed by (a) an IDA Credit of
US$9.3 million equivalent (57 percent of total project cost); (b) a loan
from the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (Banque Arabe pour le
Diveloppement Economique en Afrique)(BADEA) of US$2.8 million equivalent;
(c) an EEC grant of ECU 1.2 million (equivalent to US$0.9 million); (d) an
OPEC Fund loan of US$1.0 million equivalent; and (e) a Government
contribution of US$2.2 million equivalent (including US$0.7 million
equivalent of taxes). External financing would cover 90 percent of the
total project cost net of taxes, including 100 percent of foreign costs and
40 percent of local costs. The Government's low level of participation is
justified because of the country's difficult current and medium-term
financial situation (para. 21).  The IDA Credit wouild finance part of the
costs of institution-building, credit-related imports, and long-term loans
in cash. The EEC grant would finance the rest of credit-related imports.
The OPEC Fund loan would finance part of the institution-building costs
(technical assistance). The BADEA loan would cover part of the credit in
cash. Finally, the Government would finance part of the credit in cash,
the incremental local staff, and operating costs. The Government's
contribution would increase over time as the project's benefits
materialized, i.e., the Government would not contribute any funds in the
first year of the project, it would contribute 5 percent of project costs
in the second year, and its contribution would increase to 11 percent and
20 percent in the third and fourth years, respectively, reaching 34 percent
in the fifth year. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the cofinanciers' credit, loan, and grant agreements,
respectively, would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit
(Section 6.01(f) of the draft DCA).
51.       The combined resources of IDA, the cofinanciers, and the
Government would finance the capital and operating costs of the three
institutions involved (US$5.8 million) and credit to farmers (US$10.4
million). Capital and operating costs of the three institutions would be
financed by IDA (US$4.0 million), the OPEC Fund (US$1.0 million), and the
Government (US$0.8 million). IDA funds would be passed on to the BCD
(US$1.2 million) and the CAMARA (US$1.7 million) as grants and to the CPMCU
as a budget appropriation (US$1.1 million).  These funds would either be
paid directly to the suppliers or released with ex-post justification,
according to the needs indicated in the annual budgets to be approved by
the Government and IDA. The signature of grant agreements between the
Government and the BCD, on the one hand, and the Government and the CAMARA,
on the other, would also be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(d) of the draft DCA). Funds earmarked for the credit component would
be financed bv IDA (US$5.3 million), BADEA (US$2.8 million), EEC (US$0.9
million), and the Government (US$1.4 million) and would be on-lent to the
BCD to finance the credit in cash (US$4.6 million) and the credit in kind
(US$5.8 million). IDA funds would be on-lent to the BCD under a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Central Bank and the BCD; the signature of this
agreement would also be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(d) of the draft DCA). These funds, in turn, prior to extending credit
to farmers, would be on-lent by the BCD to the CAMARA under a commercial
credit agreement, to enable the CAMARA to take possession of the goods
before delivering them to farmers. The signature of this agreement would



- 20 -
also be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft
DCA).
Project and Special Accounts
52.       The Government's contribution would be channeled through a
Project Account in local currency opened at the Central Bank in the name of
the project. Because the Government may find it difficult, in its present
financial situation, to prefinance expenditures eligible for reimbursement
from the TDA Credit (except for direct payments) and the BADEA loan, these
funds would be channeled through two Special Accounts in foreign currency;
establishment of IDA's Special Account at the Central Bank would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA). At
effectiveness, and following receipt of a request from the Borrower, IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$100,000 in the corresponding Special
Account to constitute a revolving fund equivalent to about five months of
expected IDA reimbursements. The rest of the IDA, EEC, and OPEC Fund
contributions are earmarked for imported goods and services and would be
utilized for direct payments to suppliers.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table on the
following page. The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over a
six-year period, following past disbursement experience for
Ba.k/IDA-financed agricultural projects in West Africa and taking into
account the expected rate at which farmers would receive credit.
Disbursements for capital goods, resident specialists, and other major
items would be fully documented. Disbursements for incremental maintenance
and operating costs would be against statements of expenditure, the
documentation for which would be retained at the MOA for scrutiny during
the course of normal supervision missions. The proceeds of the IDA Credit
would cover 100 percent of training, short-term consultancies, buildings,
vehicles, and equipment (US$1.1 million) and part of the technical
assistance (US$1.3 million), running costs and incremental local staff
(US$0.3 million), credit in cash (US$0.35 million), and credit-related
imports (US$4.4 million). In addition, US$0.1 million and US$0.95 million,
respectively, would be used for the initial deposit in the Special Account
and repayment of the two PPF advances. Unallocated funds would amount to
US$0.8 million.



- 21 -
Auats and Kethds of Procureiwt
(US$ '000)
Procuremnt Method          Total
Items to be Procured        ICB       1CB      Other       Costs
BtIlin Ws                            _         600        -         600
(600)                (600)
Veicles and Fqu:xnent               300 a/    200 b/    200 c1      700
(300)     (200F    (200F       (700)
0Rperat1xg Costs                               -       1,200D /   1,200
,,A                                               _         _        (400)      (400)
Technical Assistance                           _       3,100      3,100
-     (2,100)    (2,100)
Credit                            5,200 a/    600 b/  4,600 ei  10,400
(4,300)     (600)     (400)    (5,300)
PdAT fr
Project Preparation Faclity          -         -         200 f/     200
(200)     (200)
Total Costs                   5,500     1,400     9,300      16,200
Note: Figures in pretheses desote awxmts to be finaced ot of the MAA Credit.
a/  Contracts in exess of US$100,000. EOE-financed inputs (US$0.9 millIM) would be
procured according to EC's guidelines.
bi  Contracts beween US$50,000 and US$100,000; rm contracts are excted belov US$50,000.
c/  Vehicles and equipm.nt financed out of the PPF advne were purdcse  d thr
pn?ent tentional showing.
_1  Operating goods ani services of the AKD, the CARA, and the MA would be procured
according to local procedures wh*ic hae besn foxd acceptable to ML
e/ Credit in cash to fanxers.
fl  First trarbe mly; the items being procued uner the secad tranche are inclined in
th  relevant above cat :ries.



- 22 -
54.       The BCD, the CAYARA, and the MOA would maintain separate accounts
for their respective project components. The accounts of -he ACD, those of
the entire CAMARA, and those of the CPMCU would be auditea annually by
independent auditors of international repute and acceptable to IDA. These
audits would be financed from the IDA Credit. The auditors' reports would
be forwarded to the cofinanciers within six months of the end of each year
(Section 4.01(c) of the draft DCA). The ACD, the CAMARA. and the CPMCU
would prepare quarterly progress reports. In addition, the CPMCU would
submit to IDA and the cofinanciers, for their review: (i) a fully detailed
annual progress report, including the CShT's report on the preceeding crop
year's operations; (ii) by June 30, 1987, the conclusions of the project
interim review, including recommendations and a plan of action for the
remaining part of the project period; and (iii) within six months after the
Credit closing date, a draft completion report. Assurances to that effect
have been obtained 'rom the Government (Sections 3.09(b) and 3.10 o' the
draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Justification
55.       The project's direct economic benefits would be the expected
increase in cocoa production and exports. Total cocoa output from
project-assisted farmers would iucrease fourfold, from about 1,470 tons at
project inception to some 5,630 tons at full development in the twelfth
year after project inception. The incremental production resulting from
the project would be equal to 55 percent of average annual cocoa exports
during the period 1980-82. The project would also have a significant
impact on rural incomes: at full development, farm incomes are expected to
increase by factors ranging from six to twelve, depending on the farm
categories, yielding in all cases very high financial returns. Important
non-quantifiable benefits would also result from the reform and
strengthening of the BCD, the CAMARA, and the HOA. The project would
assist the former two institutions in establishing efficient operational
procedures and services, and the creation of the CPMSU at the MOA would
improve technical support to cocoa producers, thereby ensuring the
long-term growth of the cocoa sub-sector.
56.       The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 44
percent. The project would still have a high rate of return even if it
were only partially successful.  For instance, a 50 percent rise in costs
would only reduce the ERR to 34 percent, and an equal shortfall in benefits
would only bring it to 28 percent. Similarly, if project farmers were to
achieve only half of the expected increments in yields, the ERR would
remain at 28 percent.
Risks
57.       The project has no serious technical risks, since the techniques
to be employed are well known to the target farmers, and the normal risks
of credit delivery, import procurement, and export grading and marketing
have been taken into account in the design of the relevant project
activities. On the other hand, the shortage of hired labor is a
potentially significant risk. However, the devaluation of the epkwele and



- 23 -
the adoption of the CFA franc as the national currency, combined with the
specific measures to be taken by the Government (a) to improve the system
of incentives for cocoa producers (para. 30), and (b) to facilitate
recruitment of the laborers from the mainland (para. 37), are expected to
minimize this risk.
58.       The one major project risk is related to the fact that the
proposed project is the largest single investment to date to be undertaken
by the Government in the agricultural sector, and the first financed by
IDA. Owing to Equatorial Guinea's troubled history (para. 3), neither
present institutional arrangements nor public confidence in authorities are
conducive to project success. These factors create an overall risk to the
project, particularly to the credit component, which is central to project
success. The project has been designed to the extent possible to minimize
this risk and has set limited short-term objectives. In addition,
assurances were obtained from the Government that the administration of the
credit component would meet objective performance criteria mutually agreed
upon by the Government and IDA (para. 41). After September 30, 1987.
following the project interim review, IDA would continue to disburse only
if it ascertains that these criteria have been met (para. 46). In summary,
the project faces a significant risk. However, givEn its high and robust
ERR and the importan:e of cocoa production for tbe country's economy, this
risk is considered reasonable and well worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement *etween the Republic of
Equatori.l Guinea and the Association, and the Recomendation of the
Committce provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
60.       Features of special interest in the draft Agreement are referred
to in Section IJI of Annex III of this report. Special conditions of
Credit effecti-eness would be: (i) presentation of Government-approved
balance sheets of the BCD and the CAMARA (paras. 34 and 36); (ii) formal
amendment of the CAMARA's statutes to forbid it from selling inputs,
equipment, or services on credit and to reflect the recommendations of the
ITC (para. 36); (iii) establishment of the 1985 budget appropriation for
the CPMCU (para. 43); (iv) employment in post of the five technical
assistance specialists (para. 47); (v) fulfillment of all conditions of
effectiveness of the cofinanciers' credit, grant, and loan agreements,
respectively (para. 'J); (vi) signature of grant agreements between the
Government and the BCD, and the Government and the CAMARA. respectively;
signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Central Bank and the
BCD; and signature of a commercial c-edit agreement betweer. the BCD and the
CAMARA (para. 51); and (vii) establiLament at the Central Bank of a Special
Account in foreign currency for channeling IDA funds to the project
institutions (para. 52). A special condition of disbursement against the
credit component should be that after Septembe- 30, 1987. the joint interim



- 24 -
review would confirm that the BCD had met agreed performance criteria
(para. 46).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
January 13, 1985



- 25-                                            Annex I
Page  of 6
0Ilm        - SOCIAL IICAONS   SDZA,
RQOMMORIAL CGRI                        -         GROUPS CWXO    AUUC) fa
NMs                 (ISS REU  ESTlIlAIR  lb 
ZRMMM/b    Soro WSaUA&       AM=Xc  S. or SIURR
wa c- i -9
TorAL                               26.1      2B.1          2S.1
ACI                                  3.2       3_3          3.3                _
GM "a mwm  cml)                         --                  -        _ _ .   249.1                   1129
CKILORMS OF OM FIL   ALKi) -        30.0      44.0         8.O              6M                     5s2.0
,Q,,,Z,, am VITL SMUW
FOPULartow.NID-WS CraiNOsAmos)     244.0     20.0         353.0
URBaN £090151A05 C. OF 'IrAL)      25.5       39.0         54.0             19Z2
?0eu.ATIO5 1ROEISECI
POPMLATION ZS MR 2000 CR) .0-5s
SrArXLirT POPULAZIKOS  MLL)                               i-s
51MAOl IMOMM                                              1_5 
POFULAFIOM DENSTTY
NM sq. Dl                          5.7      10.3         1z..             32.5                    5S.5
PEt SQ. DL ACI. LAD              77n5      *575         103-6            129.2                   ill5
POPULTION AGE SmUCUE (Z)
-14 TitRS                        3&.9      40.4         42.1             45.6                    45.4
15-4 us                           S7.1      SS_S        5s4_5             Sl_S                    Sl7
65 AND Abl                         4.0       4*1          3.4              2.9          2_9
POPULATION G1Ol  RATE CZ)
ZnnAL                              1.S      -1.7           1.7             2_S                    z28
URBA                              6.4        5.9          4.7             6.Z                      5.2
BIRTh RATE (ERR Mus)             -      4_0.0         39.3            45.6                    47.0
E DEATHRAE =(    TOOMS)         --      26-9          20.9            17.7                     15.2
Gss   PEODCEIO B_                    -.        2.4          2.8             3. Z2
FAIIUL PLA25125
AsC5(OF AWL   US)                   -         --           --               . '
as    cz r NAK     OE)-
immi ARM moITIO
IBE OF RIW iMM. PER CAPITA
1969-71-100)                       103.7     100.0           _              5.                      91.6
FM CAPIT  SOPLr OF
CALORi  (2: OF  )UIRDOWTS)                     -                          86.4                    96.2
PSOtEIS (GUAID P laX)               ..        ..           ..            499                      5.7
OF IICR ANIMAL AM PMSE            --       -_            __              53                      17.0
Ql(D (ACES 1-4) DEXIM RATE          43.7      37.5         29.3             M3                      18.7
UFE CEECrT Ar BRt  (TEARS)            ..      37.4         43.5             45.4                    51t7
tEWAIr REr. RIATE (MM 730s5)      17.8      166.6        138.4           117.5                    102.7
ACCSS TO SAFE WITER (110)
TOTAL                               --         -            --            21.8                    35_6
tWB_                                                                      61 5                    54.1
RURAL                                                                     14.Z                    27.3
ACCESS TO E1C1011 DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUlAroIU)
'IDAL                                                                     32.0
URAN                                          .                           692
_  RURL                             ..        ..           .              24.3                     -_
POPULATION PElt VSICIA            5810.0   11720.0                       27477.8                 11948.3
PO?. PER NURSI25 PERSON            620.0   73250.0            -           3396.2                  2268.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL SW
TOTAL                            190.0                   90.0 IC        1069.0                   986.9
UR1N                              50.0                      o 60.07      395.2                   345.7
RURAL                           9060.0        _          210.0 7        3094.0                  4012.1
ADIISSIOCS PER  OSPITAL FED ,
anus=
AVEAGE SIZE OF IOOSEDLO
TOTAL                                .        ..
RURAL                               ..        ..            .               ..                      -.
AVAGE N0.  POF    S     /sR
TOTAL                               ' ''
RURAL                                           ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECr. ( OF DIULDIS)
TOrAL                               ..        ..
RURAL                               ..        ..



- 26 -                                         Annex I
Page 2 of 6
_Uaa  can"               SOCIL TTCATO  MAu SmMT
EQuATORaL GUZIK                      RUE3U=  ommm (umEIOR   VAS 
LW                      oosa AKXCA
1960tb     127W-'                    SODE or SAHR         AMrI   S. or Sl336
ADnm  ENOM! PATIOS
flIuA:       aL                    s5.0     7n.0           81.0 /d          69.2                     91.0
KALZ                   103.0       86.0           9.0 7a         78.8                      90.5
mNvALE                  67.0       64.0          72.0 7a         57.6                      73.6
SECODARY: TOA                       2.0      17.0          11.0 id          13.1                      7.4
MALE                     3.0       24.0          19.0 7a         17.6                      23.7
WEKALE                   1.0        .0            .0o Id          a.3                      14.S
VOCAUIAL C OF SECONDAR)              37.8      10.0           8.2 /d           7.2                      5.3
P5PT-TEACE RATIO
PRfUI                              76.0      57.0            ..             46.1                     35.6
SECONDARY                          36.0      34.0          27.0 Id          25_9                     24.3
ADULT LITAC  RA (E)                    _.         ..         2.0 la           44.3                     35.6
PASSE        CARS/TR0USABD P     *        -                                    3.3                     20.7
RADIO RECEIERS/uslD  101 P.                   286.5         293.3             41.9                    100.6
TV  R      /D0SJ   0?                  .. .P                  2.9              2.0                     18.5
NEISPAIE (CDALT ONAL
INRST) CIROILAUIO
PE TNSAND POPULATION                3.3        ,,            ,,              5.4                     17.2
CDHUL AIAL AT/     aE                  .-        ..           1.5 Ic           1.4                      0.3
TUrAL XAIO  FORCE (T305M)            74.0      84.0          97.0
: 341 (EKC3)                        3.8       4.2           4.8             36.5                     33.8
ACRICMTR  CtERCE)                  84.10     10.0          76_0             77.4                     57.1
EiU11S (PERENT)                     6.0       7.0           8.0              9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE CPERCENT)
TOrAL                              30.2       29.1         27.5             41.0                     36.3
KLUE                               59.6      57.1          53.7             52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                              2.3       2.4           2.6             30.2                     25.1
ECONOMC DEDENC  RATIO                 1.4       1.5           1.7              1.2                      1.4
1Dm? or PRIVATE TUCOIE
RECEIE  Er
11dEST 5F or SU.LDS                  ..         ..
HIGNEST 2=OF EorSEn                  ..         ...*-
LOWEST 20= or  gsE0t                 .. 
LOESTR 40            S               ..        ..OF          ......
FMzxm gou
E    MERAD ABSOLUTE POVETY I
EVEL (SS PER CaPIT)
0133                                 ..        ..            ..            268.3                    525.3
RRAL                                                                        90.3                    249.0
ESTrAAMRLTV   rWnT XEC
LEU  V4.(15 PER CAPIT)
nuS                                  ..        ..            ..            107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                                                       65.0                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. 1J  ABSOWTE
POVEMT INCOK LEVEL (2)
URINA.                                                                      34.7
RURAL                                ..        ..            ..             65.4
Sr AVAIXAZr
MrT APMCABLE
3 0l T S S
Ths .w grp    aere  foreach Indicator aS" .4muLatton-welhted arithmetic _ma. Covec93e of couctrie man  the
indicators depend  an svmiUblaLty of dae and Is not munfoerm
lb   Unles othbrwim  noted. Date for 196  rcefr to any yer betwee  1959 and 1961; Deta for 1970r betwee  1969 and
1971; and dat for Moat Recent Eetia_t.  between 190 and 1982.
fc  1977; Id 1975; /a 1978.
JOE 1984



'I-%v1IrTl`ellels
30 3.S34~ _34 Y3 -ba _  43.  333  _3 .        it-d t J- .-ni -
33Z -   3_.03   -3383   33-3133..-I--   313  3.a..
e-e              W-   --    -2                        - - __
_. 343 .13.0043  =* _3   *3 n__ -3.  533 -.3  1
_353103 .,3 -a _3333.3-~a~ 32                      . 331-  *'
l _ _ * _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~out                                          _        -    ___p |
_1 5 333 _33 .._                    a-  .--  *1_  3'--r 3
--   t    _32  -  '1_3  *_  .*331              Add - a J
3_°3 t  "--13333 *-3 30 *3533 33-33    0                                          3.*a 1 -33  4-33- ---_33  3   -   *-l   333) 31;    1.531
-%--{_-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ t--t4 *'    *_-)3 331                                            50133.333) ....* --a -£-
1 _^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- _a_ *333a t_ 333 3X _- r *.35 385 .3....... - 3w_oll- t-b-*X 0 _5-38.-' '
- t  . _    _- 33  -3*. 30 3033 *-t       313  5503134-z 3.a.se.......a 30~                              I_3335.1  - 3J3.S 8. .03  j..3 -_ _.3. 35  nio
303.M -1 (33*3                                                                                              W 31: i3.4 33*3   333303  I_33           .33
*pa*s .3m   aa    -tij    30    d 3 -        13 -_ n*3      a 3-3....... *3a3 _ or  a   0s131 J  *a.   m. 353  _33  .w3.3  333 _3.3
_.33433     0.33  53  3.1-13  *K  33  £4a~ ..33.a  3.3                             331....-ap     83 :al 30. 33 33_ _333*  :_3. 3. 4313_ 33.3
_ - _ __3   _0.  (.ad3   _  344 na  1-]a .!. .......................3.3    .    .     S.......3....3.........-...  e __I)) 33_2 35 0 19 I 31 3)n-330
_ 3333. aa.    - t-             -     s (3-_*- 3.4)3.S  a.j -ai..  ..I.q                      _        *333  3.3. o-ns  r3l. _     30  p.. a- 
_z~~~m    .-I. -_  t_91os   x
_w__  t-J _ '**_^t @" *4                          _  wt
-la~~l                                 S j                                              -_ J.x lob  c- Q    'ml  -J P-St.  n
.  NS                     3                                                          s-3  -  t   3 -   sq "    t            --   3333335 33   3°.
-_   al-g _   _   . -   ~ _  .g  '_a|It_   '__}__l
-    -    -3       J.                                    33I-3530                    3-10 it -- 3.3*3   --.353- Me fl    .1-  -_  a .1. - _ '
a   33.3v* *55331s                      ..L33  -.-AS 31      3 .        a3,* t-3  53 .331 -_t"
-   t t_B  _ *e1- * . *-   -'-  -      ~        ~        ~        J ^a-    Z 1- A"  -0 {0_-3    _ M_I  -a. " a-_
--33-V -3333 *t-. _3435 '-0 -  33333fl33 *35,,                              13- 43   -.3
J. 3-.d 09 ,    33   03.   333-    333       -).  3*44.   333-33 L _ op = =   a      I£3403e 3.   19   305 3. Aide33
5      4A's3.      (.3           3  313-) -3!3134  . 333334.343*53   33- 3351 -33-a.nN)333*33 .303 3333S
_IAelw  al_s   _                                          lim_'t !'st s  v-ge _ wft _-_   Pt.W- "  
32333.335 13a.d .3      _'t *-  *'- -1-                  -   - 
* awl _ o" *e X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_F. _  a- = IWta-V T_   n- A.U-_ - ^ _
_t -.  aq  a.,  rW  ..'q       r 31333 - *   V       W3 5                              3 3._  _W  t.au833333`   - J:   -         l 31-3     ..-
U _*  '3333-t 2J   3-_3           33 3_ v-  1    .l_ 0         a                   *3 _  . a3   33333 _ 3 - 3.   33 -3                    a_ dea-
J""_    l_ 3-3 _3 '*                 1        *03                                 .333                                        _1U 
ow  31          3-33   383'33wp1    3 I3332 £333333. l3'a 333-a0-- (* *.3  3. 3-3P13- 33333- v-*53  *15  3
w- tool 9- Mae    aI         3  1 - 3    " '3 *3 -) 33.3  -3  
5  J-_                      3 W _ -        " - 3       *                      *         _ V _ >             01       .. 
PP 33)133530 *3333383333 33333 33 3335  Old3 -0                          *03)*333 d3W.3_135-33q35-5<03NW03333  .3133
a 330,3  a335 --I-" 3 3p.143 30   -33 33  333 3d-1                                                 34    333         a -an 33  333.5  33-
1143333-3351- 0 -    131-       le 3   4  -e.3  -                                     _3-L  -. t_3g3   V--. AI_-_e - -                      5
3133 Z.31 a 0533 *3333  3433330  am                 -35.32583..3wA fm-
a33   3331    _3  33  333333   .30 _3 3.  33_33__  5 _'   s.
-lWF -_                                          -ft.. -M. 1-3 -*   33   a  _  S               .       .    jS
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~333333                                          0353 53 03.13 . *     33   5343 53P *-333 3-t-33 - *13*3--- -       Yd:-     *3n1-_5
s~      _0a3   - (a..-_>- a.Y 31_3  aD-_ _-p333  _3    30033.3J s _V3 1_- 33  )3a3  _0    3s335.3a3
3331333333. 13503~3  33 430. -   ¶33                      ..'o..  *3.a *sn.                J. ...3 W"    S..a-. =333
133351  3234.3 _-333.0 -t-              5 *I aY  _3513                                                      -_* 3333  _033.033  *a* 013  -
33 -'333 t~3 41-33.33 AZ - *-33333   303303 3) 3133S3333             35..33343       3 334           0-            1-5 '3no1-u- 3-.i
M~~~~~~~~~~ nvlq-                   _wSt   _'-       '                             s-e._*Ul'_                                  s    ^
v   __, t-111     f                                                                                       ___A    a                Xt V_- =   j2Dlvx-l=  _a
.weld,"   l   33.el.             3 a. .333  3330 3 333033                           -     . 333333333  331  - 33-e33 -     (033                 J."11-33331
33533835 33333-33 3. 33353 333 _   _.331333 _ -WI 433)  t--333. 31533                            *ft.0333  a  '£3-Itol *03.0354 3.5  133-
v                       EtP_ t- r - w     _   X     m" Cl*t * a~- -
,evolvel devsde-  -  _n111tedew ! 11=   _      1--as .-vv.-l                                       -P
'3.3413- 33.33333              333333133 3. 333335553333 3-   -   333 -                jW 3 t_  3)33- -
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -  am- J---t @ -  C}                                          we   -" s-  "-- -        -s. .~X 
.5   -111 -3 evetweevell, P                                        5330*431533 33a34 35-3  .33 P-"-833 .A-3..30 333.34
* . a   11-RIL      S30303a 333."-_ --                                      _                                         --=P 313 1 5;   _3 __
43333 a5333.333)33133      3 -               Al                           T      -a 5  3333 t33  33 a*- _             asu W    3.-3
-333333 _333335335.33 _*               (333.3331 335) 53    3 33  .. -    *_*    -a   _  3.   ..3t  -  t33r
sq-t~~~~~~                             -Au-  ~-  - I   4  ~  J   -                 -'-
33 93331- _    33t.5 - 303    30   833314 -  333_            -             _ 043 30                                                 13 ---3  3*
A.-g.d t ptM                _         -.          -iv                     -T  q    -I.    -_                a- -VT-q  a  s- _-%- P   'gm
~d    -t_ m-s -0 -"  _- -t  -- vqv                  * -W                   -" -  v _    *  1  wm                ~      -_    _r *   r _--
_= w            1- - 53.-333.-4333 _0 1--3 3                                            3 2  W          -     '3*
3.  -3 -3          33333  53      _I0-    t-3_ r      3    .                                                     o 41.    - 0   _31   -_
a-'W                                                                  Anjs    V- ft-t-t atD'  l J. --_s _-pl
13330333303 41-3.34 3033 3. .8335 1-3  3. 33433433 33310              331. -34.       .3M . 03.P3333.53. 33333 3t 3-1  0a."        I
_   _   _ - _    _   @|_X-t_ _  s a      ~    ~ ~ ftel -s I olll I- -t3_          - ft" OIVV -g__        M 01    _
*-t _     _      -- tn    _  _- .,1-s  a 33v.3 _33- 38  _330323     *         -5333 33 33333105 313 53 3332331333.833-33-30--  -    3 3 0-
4305  a 3333 '1333£   .3   -   *1 _ 3                                       *3330 i_- M13343, 3  a _  0  33_33-   3 - 33-t -   i     _     3
C~~~~~~~~33.   333(3 3.5w 033  £4333  _a  4311_31-3. 03303W
--~~~~~~~~~~~~33 033  . qv- 3334   t3~  3  s                                                  3.30h        -n os.33. 3333-t-
~~~ ~~~a~~~~ ~~~- _t-  t- *ew-_                                  n_                                         Un v- lag   am_n     
.1 V.P.1       .5333A 003  .333-33. v           03'3    3.                          333J.  33.I30vp 033333 A3335  .   310333
obt     ~            _a 1- Vo      *1-   _t W        -
__n_  __ S.  q            _w j-_   z T--                                                  _a.                                                       amq t   )_
- 33  _   .3 -%a- 3 0 C-33                              -13  .a               t-3      33 d 4       t  333I3 g A    33
T--W l"Pls  v          It  n9 *Wv                                                           _1ile e,e dtv -_- low      live deel-_
_J_,_ WN                   4w                                                                 Pa-.P nu p- cuts    _Bn_ws
.         a34 3                    33      - -33 3. 33e 3-3l 431,3-, __3*_04t_        -_  I_-
PM-- 83fl03 10830    1031- 03333   *533353    333                                       313 At W     3333.3 e-  3-33 0         P. 300  e.1   j
-30pd          3.-5'M -                                                         '             '0_   5333 ?35  ___
_ _ne-dedel W vS_a        t            _-gm  w o           _v-   *-g   _-  -   _-  2-ls
33 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ w 30 33_  -n 0n *. 0                                                       _3 _-  9               *331 31433  33.43-833333.13S   33   . 33333
p-  __           vl    _  *__ _ _ C_            *t J_ *X   _ DUtt-              A_      -~-       tt                                      mb-        P.
.4~  _eetwl -_m     -  _w P.m                .- -eldv  t--m"_ -o a-   tp                            S. av_l      "as _m           voe -  M  
-9       -    p         lvv  1     -   -""vll a.                                         _          -B.     -P_IpdlS. __r_ --P~ -A {-C-u"Ji
@  l  _| _ _ _ ^_ _ _ _ _ _-9- .te- --q-                                                       v-  d-      =    ;            J- --"-   W -W
.4111 3.303     _ % _   _  _3   - 53 30t    3 3_3  -- 30j5Pg-5    34'M 3                                                            313. 3,&3 30_- -i  ' -1
|_ _ _ _     _     ~     ~    ~    ~     mom _ P-m-all   _            _ _        l-         _ *        @      tP           Zl
IO   _  _21m3 _                             33   1     * _-.                      3 33 *q                                        3      __-a33033 a-
L 
a    3J3  £.104  383  .0(31S533.3    133    -3w                                                              03831            3.
I      .3330 53D   -3    -                                                Z  -



- 28-
4 of 6
Tml 1: NaO3A M
(fn W114mmG Di X Wy
1970   1975   1976   1977   L978   1979  1980   1981   1982    1983
A. Secr 
Vale A                         5.18D  4,474  3.570  3,700  4,220  4,260 4.800   6,200  7,200   8,800
AR caiue                      3,430  2,232  1,490  1,52D  2,070  1,990 2,400   3,1W0  3,800   4,900
195    312    250    260    210    22D   250        260    320      460
Cawtructfax, R63,lic Thd       280    320    280    250    190    210   280        360    380       54O
El,ctricty.1Mto                  15     35      30     3D      20     20    40       50      60      10
GzcE=                           350    428    370    410    440    460   520        680    780       8B0
fr..port anMd wien               70     83      60     70      80      90   120      160    210      240
PbnilIc A-flscrt                630    810    900    980  1,060  1.110 1,000   1.30l  1.400 LAW    15
Otdur Se3rdv                    210    254    190    180    150    160   19         290    250       180
B. seeprarl. rinnt (in S
Total                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  10.0  1.0  10.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
66.2   49.9   41.7   41.1   49.1   46.7  50.0    50.0   52.8    55.7
3.8    7.0    7.0    7.0    5.0    5.2   5.2        4.2    4.4      5.2
C            Pubctiec. Pis1k Ibrks  5.4    7.2    7.8    6.8    4.5    4.9   5.8     5.8    5.3      6.1
Eiectricity, 1htn                 0.3    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.5    0.5   0.8        0.8    0.8       LI
CAMMO=                            6.8    9.6   10.4   11.1   10.4   10.8  10.8    11.0   10.8    10.0
Tr9Aport and Telrems.             1.4    1.9    1.7    1.9    1.9    2.1   2.5        2.6    3.0      2.7
PubliLL Adistcarbuntia           12.2   18.1   25.2   26.5   25.1   26.1  20.8    21.0   19.4    17.0
Otbr Services                    4.1    5.7    5.3    4.7    3.6    3.8   4.0         4.7    3.5      2.0
C.  Grmss  neuc P n&wt, 1981
(int f II    of B dolars)
73.4
(!ziwat)                             a(70.9)
(Pdblis                               (2.5)
Grow I mstlc Iruubn.t                    7.8
tps  of Gwods ad NES                    19.5
Inwxnots of Goods and! US               39.4
Crum Dstic PuIa&t                       61.3
get FaPsr 1-     fzm Abronad             0.1
Gross Ihtiatal Product                  61.4
Daictl Savi                            -12. 1
Rmo.=e Gop                             -19.9
invustmunt to GDP                       12.7
Dcmxstic Savdblp to GDP                -19.7



-29-
AIEC I
Pa8e 5 of 6
Table 2: BALM= (F PA1fh
(in milmlis of oQmlt US dollars)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Exports, f.o.b.                                      28.6  14.2   15.3   14.6    18.1
;ows                                           (27.4) (12.6) (12.9)  (10.9)  (13.2)
TJder                                           (0.8) (1.6)  (2.4)  (3.4)   (4.6)
cff#                                            (0.4)  (-)    (-)   (0.3)   {0.3)
T,ports. c.if.                                     -23.6 -36.9  -45.2  -40.6   -32.4
Trade  E.A                                            5.0 -Z.7  -29.9  -26.0   -14.3
Services (ret)                                      -0.9  -2.5   -4.7   -4.6    -7.1
Trasfers (met)                                      -0.1   3.4    4.0    5.3       6.2
Crt A amt Iaai                                       4.0 -21.8  -30.6  -25.3   -15.2
Private Capital /a                                   0.4 -16.6   -4.5  -24.8   -17.3
Net M & LT I    (S)                                   1.2  23.4   15.6   32.7    14.5
3       1sh                                     2.4  25.4   19.6   35.8    18.6
Rep1ynints                                     -1.2  -2.0   -4.0   -3.1    -4.1
!;DR Allo1tFs                                        1.3   1.3    1.2    -         -
overaf Btalance (+ 4adw ts Izrem in reserves)        6.9 -13.7  -18.7  -17.4   -18.0
/a  IncJadel errors and a    .
MEML DMI, Deaer 31, 1583                                                                DEBr SICE RaTI
(in miflIa  of [S dollars)                                                            Sdu1id          9
Actually paid   2
Public Debt, mestmuri and disursed.   el.                                102.9
lik Djbr,  b11x  ut-ndisbused                                            138.1
IDA ladig. Decber 31. 1983
(In aiUirms of US dollars)
(tstmdig and dislAsel                                0.08
lndUbursed                                           2.32
Total                                                2.40



- 30 -
M11:
Pap 5 of 6
Table 3: PUBLIC FINANCE
(in millions of current EX)
Budget
1980    1981    1982    1983      1984
Budgetary Revenue             2,642   2,348   3,758    6,059        9,823
of which: Tax revenue        1,113   1,688   2,931    2,322        6,118
non-tax revenue   1,529      660      827    3,737      3,705
Current expenditure           2,791   2,959   3,714    4,825        8,103
Current deficit/surplus        -149    -611       44    1,234       1,720
Capital expenditure             933     736   2,046    1,974        3,972
Overall deficit              -1,082  -1,347  -2.002      -740      -2,252
Table 4: MONEIARY SURVEY
(in millions of current BK)
1980    1981     1982       1983
Money and Quasi Money                 5,614    6,593  10,014    11,619
Domestic Credit                       8,380   14,449  19,788    22,832
Credit to Public Sector               436    3,184   5,763       7,040
Credit to Private Sector            7,944   11,265  i4,025    15,792
Net Foreign Assets                      919   -2,002  -3,480    -4,391
Medium- and Long-term Liabilities    1,700    3,847   4,675        5,556
SDR Allocations                          968    1,318   1,610      1,907
Other (net)                            1,017      685        9      -641



31
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILrTATION PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30. 1984)
f
Credit                                                  Amount (USSillion)
Number        Year      Borrower      Purpose           Total   Undisbursed
362-EG       1973     Republic of   Highway             2.0       2.0 a/
Equatorial    Maintenance
Guinea
1304-EG                Republic of   Petroleum           2.4 b/    2.0 cl
Equatorial    Sector T.A.
Guinea
1489-EG                Republic of   Technical           6.0       6.0
Equatorial    Assistance
Guinea
-  of which has been repaid   0.0
-  now outstanding             8.4
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
a/   This Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the request of the
Government.
b/   The Credit is denominated in SDRs.  This figure was computed at the
rate of exchange on August 31, 1982 (the rate used at the time of
credit negotiations in September 1982).
c/   This figure was computed at the rate of exchange on September 30.
1984.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project: 20 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Landell Mills Associated Limited
(c)  Date of first Bank mlssion to consider project: January 1981
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  May 1983
(followed by a post-appraisal mission in March 1984)
(e)  Date of negotiations:  July 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  March 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
A second PPF advance of US$750,000 was granted in December 1983
to finance the services of technical assistance staff needed to begin
strengthening project institutions, short-term consultancies required to
deal with specific problems, other consultant-related expenses, and a
downpayment on the 1985 credit-related import program.
Section III - Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following major
points: (a) adequate producer prices (para. 30); (b) the CAMARA's new
statutes, organizational structure, financial accounts, and accounting
system (para. 36); (c) adequate incentives for foreign cocoa laborers
(para. 37); (d) the application of strict performance criteria, including
precise criteria for determining farmers' creditworthiness (para. 41); (e)
annual budget allocations to the CPMCU (para. 43); (f) the rate of interest
charged to farmers (para. 44); (g) the project interim review (para. 46);
(h) the annual work plans and training responsibilities of the
internationally recruited staff, and the selection of national deputies
(para. 47); and (i) the opening of the Project Account (para. 52).
The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness: (a)
presentation of the Government-approved balance sheets of the BCD and the
CAMARA (paras. 34 and 36); (b) amendment of the CAMARA's statutes to
reflect ITC's recommendations (para. 36); (c) establishment of the 1985
budget appropriation for the CPMCU (para. 43); (d) employment at post of
the five technical assistance specialists (para. 47); (e) fulfillment of
all conditions of effectiveness of the cofinanciers (para. 50); (f)
signature of two grant agreements, a subsidiary loan agreement, and a
commercial credit agreement (para. 51); and (g) establishment of the
Special Account (para. 52).
A special condition of disbursement of funds against the
project's credit component would be that after September 30, 1987,
disbursements would be dependent on confirmation by the joint interim
review that the BCD had met agreed performance criteria (para. 46).



IIRD 17954R
JANUARY I9NG
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
BIOKO ISLAND
ROADS
PORTS
,+    AIRPORT
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS AND STREAMS
-- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            MALABO
A T L A N TI C
O C EA N                         U
3'30'                                                                                                                 3'30r
lbEI     {                  RIABA
A TLANTIC
O C EA N
MALI *jNGE 
012   i*NIGR  CHAD   I
0   2   4   6   B   1,0 Miles  Kmew
Mhl.                  c. 5/ C   '-2   NIGERIA            I-'r
~ererr         < tY                      rCENTRAL
..sa' W. ft  Te                      _d 0         AFRICAN
Cawo'm nW.               . e                x    RdP.Bn-'
iCAMEROON-,
O5I -Wo do -sf '.e*. 05 me  Biokco Island
pw ofhetdB" endVW      EOUATORIAL<-_                 ZAIRE
h_snUbonW .eCGoptwb      GUINEA                      ZAIRE
wsr anr-   t W000Sf                          ONGOI
8*3e~o  0W erf                  Gvl        f ef Cu i n   GABON 1    (
I                1-h                                      s**J  i



