Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C N. /s%/g$ - 
Report No. 4933-EG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 16, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Epkwele; plural, Bipkwele (BK)
US$1.00         =  BK 314  (Official Rate)
BK 1,000       =  US$3.18 (Official Rate)
BK 1,000       =  US$0.67 (Parallel Rate) I/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)    =  0.621 mile
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)      =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)    =  0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACD       Agricultural Credit Department of the BCD
BADEA     Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BCD       Banco de Credito y Desarrollo (Credit and Development Bank)
BEAC      Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Bank of the Central
African States)
BGE       Banco de Guinea Ecuatorial (Bank of Equatorial Guinea, the
Central Bank)
CAADP     Caja Aut6noma de Amortizaci6n de la Deuda Piiblica (Autonomous
Fund for the Amortizacion of the Public Debt)
CAMARA    Camara Oficial de Comercio Agricola y Forestal (Chamber of
Commerce for Agriculture and Forestry of Bioko)
CPMCU     Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit
CSMU      Credit Supervision and Monitoring Unit
ECU       European Currency Unit
EEC       European Economic Community
ITC       International Trade Center (Geneva)
MOA       Ministrv of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
UDEAC     Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrioue Centrale (Customs and
Economic Union of the Central African States)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Equatorial Guinea used the epkwele, which was officially linked to the
Spanish peseta until January 1, 1985, when the countrv entered the African
Financial Community ("Communaute Financiare Africaine" - CFA).  Since
January 13, 1985, the CFA franc is the only currency acceptable as legal
tender.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCIMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ...............................   iii-iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIUMMARY   ...........................................                    v-vii
I.    BACKGROUND .......................................................                      1
A.  Introduction ....................................                     ..... 
B.  Country Physical and Socio-Politicol Characteristics    1....... 
C.  The Economy .......................................                               2
D.  Agricultural Sector Issues and Strategy   ...................                     3
E.  External Assistance   .......................................                     4
II.  THE COCOA SUB-SECTOR .............................................                       6
A.  Historical Context .........................................                      6
B.  Production Environment .....................................                      8
C.  Farm Structure and Production Levels .......................                    10
D.  The Institutions ...........................................                     11
III. THE PROJECT   .....................................................                     14
A.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Scope   ...................                   14
B.   Summary Description   .......................................                  15
C.  Detailed Features   ....... .............              .....................    16
1.  BCD's Agricultural Credit Department ....................                  16
2.  The CAMARA .............................................                   16
3.  Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit ....                .......    17
4.  Agricultural Credit   ...................................                  17
5.  Technical Assistance and Training   .....................                  19
Iv.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   .....................................                     20
A.  Project Costs   .............................................                   20
B.  Financing Plan .............................................                    23
C.  Procurement   ...............................................                   25
D.  Disbursements ..............................................                    27
E.  Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements   ....                 ...........  28
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
Equatorial Guinea in May-June 1983 and was composed of Messrs. Crown, Klaus,
Berthier, Hecht (staff members), and Klatt (consultant). This report was
drafted by the appraisal mission and completed by Messrs. Balcet, Locatelli, and
Berthier, following their post-appraisal mission in March 1984. Mss. Hoang and
de Braga typed the report. Mrs. Layton is responsible for its overall
presentation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
Table of Contents (Continued)
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ....................................    28
A.  General       .....................................................  28
B.  BCD's Agricultural Credit Department . ....................        29
C.  Input Supply, Cocoa Marketing and Grading .................    31
D.  Cocoa Production Management and Project Coordination  .....        32
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.                ..    ...      33
A. Production    ..33
B. Markets and Prices.                                                 35
C. Financial Results    ..37
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . ................ ......... O...    42
A. Benefits   ..42
B. Economic Justification    ..43
C. Environmental Considerations    ..43
D. Risks   ..44
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS           .     .     .45
ANNEXES
3-1 Incremental Numbers of Participant Farmers and Cocoa Areas under the
Project
3-2 Summary Project Indicators
3-3 Technical Assistance and Short-Term Consultancies
3-4 Training Program
4-1 Project Costs by Year
4-2 Financing Plan by Co-Donor and Year
4-3 IDA Financing by Component and Agency
4-4 Estimated Disbursement Profile
4-5 Disbursement/Repayment Cycle for Credit-Related Import Procurement
5-1 Organizational Structure of the BCD
5-2 CAMARA's Proposed Organizational Structure
5-3 Organizational Structure of the MOA
5-4 Major Elements of the Implementation Schedule
6-1 Project Cocoa Production by Farm Type
6-2 Typical Enterprise Budgets
6-3 Summary of Typical Enterprise Budgets
6-4 ACD's Incremental Cash Flow, 1984-1995
6-5 ACD's Incremental Income Statement and Balance of Accounts, 1984-1995
6-6 CAMARA's Incremental Cash Flow, 1984-1995
6-7 Government Incremental Cash Flow, 1984-1995
6-8 Government Incremental Foreign Exchange Cash Flow, 1984-1995
MAP
IBRD No. 17954R: Equatorial Guinea/Bioko Island



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Code
A. Project Identification and Preparation
1.   Identification of a Cocoa Rehabilitation Project,           220.357 (A1-4)
Equatorial Guinea, Technical Report, M. Edwards,
IBRD Identification Mission; January/February 1981.
2.   "Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Cacao y Cafe, Informe
Principal y Anexos", Landell Mills Associates Ltd;
December 1982.
3.   Rehabilitation of Cocoa Farms on Bioko Island,
J. Klatt; June 1983.
4.   Notes on Measures the Government Proposes to Take,
Cocoa and Coffee Rehabilitation Project; June 1983.
B. BCD and CAMARA                                                    220.357 (Bl-8)
1.   "Estatutos Scciales de la Camara Oficial Agrlcola de
Comercio e Industria de Fernando Poo"; 1962.
2.   Decree No. 43-1979 on the Changes of Denomination of
the State Banks; September 9, 1979.
3.   "Estatutos, Banco de _redito y Desarrollo de Guinea
Ecuatorial", Malabo; July 1, 1980.
4.   "Proyecto de Estatutos de la Camara Oficial Agr!cola
de Comercio e Industria de Bioko"; 1982.
5.   "Memoria 1982, Banco de Credito y Desarrollo"; 1982.
6.   "Estatutos, Camara Oficial de Comercio, Agricola y
Forestal"; October 1983.
7.   Report on a Mission bv the International Trade Center
UNCTAD/GATT to Review the CAMARA's Operational
Structure and statutes, June 12-19, 1984, ITC/DTC/84/104;
June 29, 1984.
8.   "Decreto-ley organica del Banco Nacional de Deposito
y Desarrollo" (unsigned and undated).



- iv -
Code
Documents Contained in Project File (continued)
C. External Assistance                                              220.357 (C1-3)
1.   "Note de Base pour la Mecanisation et la Mise en Place
d'une Organisation Cooperative dans les Plantations de
Cacao de l'Ile de Bioko, Guinee Equatoriale", de
Franchi, PECTA ("Programme des Emplois et des
CompEtences Techniques pour l'Afrique"), ILO, Addis
Ababa; April 1982.
2.   Identification of the Mongomo Rural Development
Project, Main Report and Annexes, IFAD; XTRA,
Consultants Cooperative; June 1982.
3.   Equatorial Guinea, Cooperative Development,
Project Concept Paper, The Cooperative League of the
USA (CLUSA); March 1983.
D. Miscellaneous                                                    220.357 (Dl)
"Relaci6n de las Importaciones Efectuadas Durante los
Aios 1981-1983, Ministerio de Industria, Comercio
Turismo y Promoci6n Empresarial".
E. Working Papers                                                   220.357 (E1-7)
1.   Project Costs
2.   Farmers' Cash Flow
3.   ACD's Cash Flow, Income Statement and Balance Sheet
4.   Government's Cash Flow
5.   The Institutions
6.   Economic Rate of Return
7.   Farm Budgets
F. Project Technical Assistance
1.   Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance                  129.958 (A-E)
Experts
2.   Technical Assistance Contract                               129.958 (J)
(Landell Mills - Government)



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRO.JECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Beneficiaries:            Credit and Development Bank (BCD), Chamber of
Commerce for Agriculture and Forestry (CAMARA), and
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural
Development (MOA)
Credit Amount:            SDR 9.1 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Cofinanciers:             Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADFA), Commission of the European Communities
(EEC), OPEC Fund for International Development
Onlending Interest Rate: 8 percent fro= the Central Bank to the BCD and 15
percent (to be modified yearly, as necessary, in
consultation with IDA) from the BCD to the farmers.
Project Description:      In accordance with the Government's top priority for
che agricultural sector--to restore cocoa production
and exports so as to generate foreign exchange and to
redress a marked negative trade balance--the objectives
of the proposed project are (a) to alleviate the
constraints currently impeding the increased production
of cocoa; and (b) to establish the necessary
infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development
in the cocoa sub-sector in the future.
To achieve these objectives, project actions would
(a) provide agricultural credit to meet the seasonal,
medium-term, and long-term financing needs of
creditworthy farmers and cooperatives; and (b) improve
and strengthen the capacicy and operational efficiency
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural
Development (MOA) and the project implementing agencies
through the international recruitment of five
specialists, on-the-job and overseas training of local
staff, improvement of buildings and operating
facilities, and provision of vehicles and office
equipment.



- vi -
Benefits and Risks
The main quantifiable benefits of the project would derive from the
increased production and exportation of cocoa. By PY6, the end of the
investment period, production on project farms would have increased by
3,140 tons (210% more than without the project). By PY12, when all farmers
benefiting from the project would be at full development, total production on
these farms would have increased by 4,160 tons (280Z of production without the
project). The FOB value, in 1984 constant terms, of incremental project
engendered cocoa exports would reach US$4.6 million in PY6 and US$7.2 million in
PY12. Project actions to reinforce the CAMARA's capacity to monitor and control
exports would ensure that revenues from exports would be repatriated into the
Equato-Guinean banking system. Important non-quantifiable benefits would also
result from the reform and strengthening of the BCD, the CAMARA and the MOA, and
this improvcment in institutional performance would help to ameliorate the
climate for investment in the cocoa sub-sector and lead to greater investor
confidence in the agricultural sector in general.
There are no significant technical risks, since the agronomic
techniques to be employed are well known by the target population. Lower than
anticipated participation is not considered a risk in view of the measures to be
undertaken under the project to improve producer incentives. The major project
risks arise from the country's weak public administration and the lack of public
confidence in its authorities. The project has been designed to minimize these
risks, with limited short-term objectives, built-in safeguards, and provision of
technical assistance fcr the project implementing agencies and the MOA.
Estimated Project Costs
% of
Local     Foreign      Total     Base Costs
------US$ million
Institution Building
ACD                          0.4        1.1         1.5           12
CAMARA                       0.5        1.4         1.9           15
MOA                          0.2        0.9         1.1            9
1981 PPF                       -       0.2          0.2            2
Credit to Farmers              1.7        5.9         7.6           62
Total Base Costs             2.8       9.5         12.3          100
Physical Contingencies         0.2        1.0         1.2           10
Price Contingencies            0.7       2.0          2.7           22
Total Costs (incl. taxes)   3.7       12.5         16.2          132
Taxes                         (0.7)                  (0.7)
Total Costs (net of taxes)  3;0        12.5        15.5



- vii -
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
mDA                      9.3
BADEA a/                 2.8
EEC b/                   0.9
OPEC   c/                 1.0
Government               2.2
Total                    16.2
==_.
a/ Loan: 16 years' maturity; 5 years' grace; 62 interest.
b/ Grant: ECU 1.2 million (US$0.9 million equivalent).
cI Loan: 17 years' maturity; 5 years' grace; interest-free;
service charge 12 per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
84/85     85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89     89/90
--       -u-- -S$ million
Annual                     1.7      1.2       1.9      2.2       1.5       0.8
Cumulative                 1.7      2.9       4.8      7.0       8.5       9.3
Estimated Project Completion Date:  December 31, 1989.
Estimated Rate of Return: 44X.



EQUATORIAL GIINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Equatorial Guinea has requested assistance from
IDA and other co-financiers to finance a cocoa rehabilitation project. The
project was identified in January 1981 and the Government requested a
US$200,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance
detailed project preparation, which was awarded in November 1981. The
project was subsequently prepared by Landell Mills Associates Limited of
Bath, England, which completed its report in December 1982. The project
was appraised by an IDA mission in May-June 1983. Following project
appraisal, the Government requested a second advance of US$750,000 from the
PPF to finance the 1985 credit-related import program, the purchase of
vehicles for the key project staff, the construction of housing for the
technical assistance staff and their fees up to credit effectiveness, and
miscellaneous short-term consultancies. This second advance was awarded in
December 1983. In March 1984, a pos.-appraisal mission finalized project
appraisal.
B. Country Physical and Socio-Political Characteristics
1.02      Equatorial Guinea, a small country of 28,051 km2, is located in
the southern corner of the Gulf of Guinea (map IBRD No. 17954R). The
country has two distinct parts: Insular Guinea comprises five islands, of
which the largest is Bioko (formerly Fernando Poo) containing about 2,020
km2 or 7% of the country's area; Continental Guinea, known as Rio Muni, iF
bordered by Cameroon on the North, Gabon on the South and East, and the
Gulf of Guinea on its West Coast. Whereas Rio Muni contains most of the
country's land mass and population, the capital of Equatorial Guinea,
Malabo, is located on Bioko, 250 kilometers from the continental region's
administrative center, Bata. This distance seriously constrains
communications between the capital and the mainland.
1.03      The population of Equatorial Guinea in mid-1983 was estimated at
350,000 inhabitants, of which about 70,000 lived on Bioko and nearly all of
the remaining 280,000 in Rio Muni. Population density on the fertile Bioko
island is about 30/km2 compared with 9/km2 on the heavily forested
mainland. Population growth has been calculated at 1.1% a year
(1965-1983), a very low level for West Africa. This has been due to major
outmigration and high mortality (para 1.04). The number of literate
Equato-Guineans declined during the 1970s when most of the educated
Guineans were killed or fled, and education was seriously disrupted by the
political and economic chaos of that era; it stands now at around 28X of
the population. In Rio Muni, the dominant ethnic group is the Fang; on
Bioko, the indigenous Bubis make up most of the population.



-2-
1.04      At the time of its independence from Spain in 1968, Equatorial
Guinea had one of the higheat per capita incomes in Sub-Saharan Africa,
based on cocoa and coffee exports. Shortly after independence, however, a
reign of terror and political repression began: thousands of people were
killed or imprisoned and about one-third of the population went into exile.
Relations with Spain deteriorated In 1969; most of the 8,000 expatriates
left the country and Spanish companies closed their businesses. The 30,000
Nigerian laborers who had been employed on Bioko cocoa estates were
persecuted and most of them fled the country in 1976. The Government then
nationaltzed the cocoa estates and introduced forced labor to work them,
but prc'.uction of both food and export crops continued to decline
dramatically. Cocoa output fell from 38,000 tons in 1968 ta 8,000 tons a
decade later, while coffee production dropped from 9,000 tons to virtually
nothing. Imports of food and production inputs were severely curtailed and
the population was reduced to subsistence level living. According to a
World Bank country economic study (Equatorial Guinea: An Introductory
Economic Report; March 1983, p. 4), per capita income declined from US$212
in 1970 to US$175 in 1981, in current terms.
1.05      In August 1979, a military junta overthrew the repressive regime
and since then has tried to rebuild the economy. This has included efforts
to: (a) revitalize agricultural production and exports; (b) reestablish a
functioning public administration and social infrastructure, such as
schools and hospitals; and (c) restore the Government's credibility in the
eyes of the Equato-Guinean population and the international community. In
the first two years after the "liberation coup", the Government's
reconstruction activities were largely ad hoc in nature. Hovever, in April
1982, the Government presented a three-year program (1982-1984) at an
International Donors' Conference held in Geneva. The program identified
agriculture and infrastructure as the priority sectors for development
(para 1.07).
C. The Economy
1.06      Equatorial Guinea's economic performance under the new Government
(1980-1984) has been mixed but generally positive. Food producti'n has
risen, and basic commodities such as cassava, rice, meat, fish, &aid palm
oil have reappeared on the markets, although periodic shortages still
occur. Intermittent electricity supply and telecommunications in the
largest towns have been restored. Bus transportation, hospitals, and hotels
are back in service, and most schools have reopened. However, recovery of
cocoa, coffee, and timber production has been sluggish, owing to shortages
of imported inputs and machinery. poor price incentives for producers and
the lack of a credible agricultural credit system. These problems were
exacerbated by the inconvertibility of the local currency, the epkwele, and
its overvaluation. As a result, Equatorial Cuinea experiences serious
balance of payment difficulties.
1.07      The Government's first priorities for economic recovery are to
increase the country's foreign exchange earnings, improve the level of its
international creditwo-.thiness, and generate tax revenues to strengthen and



- 3 -
raise the absorptive capacity of its administration. To this end, it has
given high priority to the promotion of cocoa exports, in vhich the country
has traditionally had a comparative advantage (paras 1.10 and 2.01). To
further open up the economy and provide a better basis for foreign
investment, the Government has taken a series of policy measures. It
joined the Central African Customs Union ("Union DouanIIre des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale" - UDEAC) on January 1. 1984, and entered the Bank of
the Central African States ("Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale" -
BEAC) on January 1, 1985. The epkwele was substantially devalued and
replaced by the CFA franc on January 1, 1985. An agreement between the
Government and the IMF on an economic and financial adjustment program is
expected to be reached in early 1985 and supported by a stand-by
arrangement. The devaluation and entry to the CFAF zone, and attendant
stabilization program. chotld provide an adequate system of incentives for
cocoa producers and laborers.
D.  Agricultural Sector Issues and Strat
1.08      Agricultrre (including fishing and forestry), the mainstay of the
country's economy, provides a livelihood to some 80 of the population.
generating approximately 50% of GDP, and almost all of the country's
foreign exchange. While predominantly subsistence-oriented, the sector
also produces cash commodities such as cocoa, coffee, and timber, mainly
foL export.
1.09     The main subsistence crops are cassava, cocoyam and plantain;
fruits and vegetables are also plentiful. Following a drastic decline
during the 1970s. food crop production has recovered somewhat in recent
years. However, the country is still experiencing shortages of basic
staples. While in 1968 the country was meeting Its needs for meat and
dairy products, its livestock production dwindled in the 1970s due to the
indiscriminate slaughter of most cattle, sheep, and goats. Similarly, In
1968, fish was caught in abundance and served as a main source of protein
for the population. However, the output of artisanal fishing, which
accounted for 60% of the catch, dropped sharply from a yearly average of
3,500 tons in the 1970s to the current level of slightly under 1.000 tons.
as the former Government destroyed fishermen's boats in an attempt to stem
outmigration by sea.
1.10      Cocoa has been traditionally Equatorial Guinea's most important
agricultural commodity despite a drastic decline in production after
independence (paras 1.04. 2.01-2.03). In 1968. coffee was the second most
important export commodity after cocoa. It was grown mainly by
smallholders on some 50,000 ha in Rio Muni (along the Cameroonian border)
and on about 5.000 ha in Bioko. Disorganized collection, forced labor and
low producer prices combined to reduce production from about 9,000 tons per
year in the late 1960s to almost nothing now. Timber, which is abundant in
Equatorial Guinea, has replaced coffee as the second most important
commercial activity in the agricultural sector after cocoa. Equatorial
Guinea's forestry reserves, covering approximately 1,300,000 ha, of which
about 500,000 ha have been partially exploited, represent potentially the



- 4 -
country's richest agricultural resource. Exports declined from about
350,000 m3 in the late 1960s to about 4,000 m3 in 1978 and increased to an
average of 58,000 m3 a year during 1981-83. This is still far below
Equatorial Guinea's potential, estimated at some 300,000 m3 of marketable
logs per year.
1.11      As part of its strategy for recovery of the agricultural
sector - and of the economy as a whole (para 1.07) - the Government has
given priority to the cocoa sub-sector. This has involved Government's
recognition that its earlier attempts to stimulate production by
encouraging an indiscriminate expansion of credit and input use have led to
abuses and difficulties. This occurred partly because the main
institutions involved in the cocoa subsector - the Credit and Development
Bank ("Banco de Credito y Desarrollo" - BCD) and the Chamber of Commerce
for Agriculture and Forestry ("Ca-mara de Comercio Agricola y Forestal" -
CAMARA) - delivered credit and inputs without properly selecting
recipients and without following strict administrative procedures (paras
2.19 and 2.20). The Government now recognizes that a more viable policy
would be to ensure adequate provision of credit and input to farmers under
strict allocation and control pr-cedures. It is also aware of the
importance of establishing correct price incentives for production so that
farmers can sell their crop at more remunerative prices reflecting world
market conditions. It finally acknowledges that, in the short term,
institutional weaknesses limit the size of the target groups for which
effective action can be taken. Therefore, it has accepted the need to
focus its support on those farmers selected by strict commercial criteria
for creditworthiness, who would be likely to respond most quickly to price
incentives and improved availability of inputs and credit.
E. External Assistance
1.12      Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance.  Since the new regime took
over in August 1979, international and bilateral development agencies have
shown renewed interest in Equatorial Guinea's agricultural sector.
Bilateral support currently comes principally from Spain, the former
colonial power, which has advisors in most of the key ministries and
agencies, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development (MOA). Spain also provides specific assistance in the
livestock and foodcrop sub-sectors. Other bilateral programs of importance
are provided by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and
the United States Agency for 1-iternational Development (USAID) mainly in
the cocoa and coffee cooperative smallholders sub-sectors, and France for
livestock and fishing. The African Development Fund (ADF) has the biggest
multilateral program including a US$7.0 million project to support
cooperatives; the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) is contributing
to the creation of a multi-purpose Capital Development Fund for general
support to the sector; the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
Commission of the European Economic Community (EEC) are financing smaller
operations in the foodcrop and livestock sub-sectors.



- 5 -
1.13      While overall assistance is already significant, the Government's
ability to mobilize additional external resources -- through donor
assistance and commercial investments - remains limited, as many of the
prerequisites for adequate project implementation in the agricultural
sector are not yet present. In fact, above and beyond the key
macro-economic distrtwons, Jue in particular to the overvaluation of the
epkwele, the dearth of operational structures and facilities stands in the
way of all but self-sustaining and simple projects. There is still a lack
of basic support services, trained manpower and agricultural inputs;
communications are difficult and official procedures cumbersome; and
profits cannot be remitted abroad. Finally, the Government's capacity to
manage and coordinate external assistance remains extremely weak. A
recently approved IDA-financed technical assistance project (Cr. 1489-EG)
is expected to help the Government overcome this latter problem (para
1.14).
1.14      Bank Group Involvement.  IDA's involvement in Equatorial Guinea
has been limited by the political and economic turmoil of the decade
1969-1979, which prevented implementation of development projects. A
Highway Maintenance Project was approved in 1973 (Cr. 362-EG), but the
entire credit was cancelled in 1976 at the Government's request. In
November 1982, IDA approved a Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1304-EG) for
the petroleum sector to aid the Government in negotiating with, and
monitoring the activities of, oil companies interested in exploring the
country's oil reserves. If proven to have commercial potential, these
reserves could have a major impact on Equatorial Guinea's future foreign
exchange earnings and overall economic growth. The proposed cocoa
rehabilitation project would be IDA's first project in the agricultural
sector. The general Technical Assistance Project wili provide resident
policy advisers in general macro-economic strategy-making, agricultural
development on the mainland, forestry and mining development, and education
planning.
1.15      During an International Donors' Conference (para 1.05), external
investments in the agricultural sector were discussed by the Government and
the major donors interested in the sector. At that time, an informal
division of labor took place: other donors (with the exception of the ADF,
which had begun a project in the cocoa sector in the late 1970s)
demonstrated primary interest in foodcrops, smallholders, and cooperatives,
with the understanding that the World Bank and other co-financiers would
consider a project to rehabilitate one or more of the major export earners
(cocoa, coffee and timber). This is consistent with the Bank's strategy to
concentrate first on the major -roductive sectors. Given the country's
present desperate ecoromic situation (para 1.06), it was felt necessary to
focus on those sectors which could quickly increase Government revenues and
foreign exchange earnings, with the understanding chat later projects might
focus on other productive sectors, infrastructure, and social services. In
the agricultural sector in particular, it was felt that a first project
must necessarily focus on cocoa production which can be immediately
rehabilitated, with forestry (and mining) to receive support through the
¶ echnical Assistance Project.  Possible future IDA-financed agricultural
projects would give more emphasis to the other major export earners, coffee



-6-
and timber, and to on-farm research, extension, and smallholder
productivity. Actions in roads and transport will eventually be necessary
to support the forestry and agricultural sectors and a consultant
transportation economist has begun collecting information in the
transporlition sector to assess its need for material and technical
assistance. A Bank mission has identified a possible project in the
education sector and IDA is preparing a rehabilitation import-financing
credit for 1986. Such a program would help to alleviate the country's
critical balance of payment situation during the difficult transition
period following the devaluation of the epkwele and the adoption of the CFA
franc.
II. THE COCOA SUB-SECTOR
A. Historical Context
2.01     Cocoa's importance for Equatorial Guinea has resulted from a
combination of a warm, humid climate and fertile volcanic soils on the
island of Bioko, which provides ideal growing conditions for this crop.
Labor used to be provided principally by foreign workers, mainly from
Nigeria, who numbered about 30,000 at peak employment periods. Moreover,
the only significant disease risk, black pod disease (Phytophthora M.),
was readily controlled through periodic sprayings with simple copper
sulphate-based fungicides. Consequently, average yields attained 850 kg/ha,
with yields of above 1,000 kg/ha being commonplace in large estates, and
recorded yields of up to 2,000 kg/ha in selected micro-climatic zones on
the island. Such yields greatly exceeded those averaging 400 kg/ha
attainable in Rio Muni and in neighboring countries such as Ivory Coast,
Ghana and Cameroon. Also, Equatorial Guinea's cocoa was of very high
quality and typically commanded a price premium in world markets.
2.02      Since 1970, cocoa has accounted for between 66% and 90% of the
country's annual export earnings. This has occurred in spite of a
significant decline in volume exported, from an annual average of 31,500
tons in 1969-1971 to an annual average of 7,500 tons in 1980-1982, and in
spite of a five-fold increase in timber exports since 1980. Annual levels
of cocoa production over the period 1967-1983, together with the
International Cocoa and Coffee Organization (ICCO) average daily price in
constant 1982 U.S. dollars, are shown graphically on the following page;
the graph clearly shows the magnitude of the revenues forgone by Equatorial
Guinea as a result of the drastic decline in its cocoa exports, especially
during the 1976-1980 period, when prices soared to a peak of US$5.00/kg
(para 6.06).



m c NoPa* d Cocoa
(1967- 1963
IL
I'~~~~~1
_                                           /t
23
1=                     to I
,~~~~~~~~~
3%0 _
i1q71 iq?  t1013 10.  Ion  1Q1  1071  *n1  10 70  t t m   1w Je   l
2.03      During the politically repressive years (1969-1979), about
25,000 ha or 55% of the 45,700 ha planted with cocoa, principally contained
in the 150 largest estates, were abandoned as foreign managers and workers
fled the country. This also resulted in the organization of production
being altered, leaving a less prominent role to the larger estates.
Recently, the growing lack of salaried labor coupled with the shortage of
inputs has led to the emergence of a system of share cropping
("parcelistas") now prevalent in the larger estates; also, with the
Government's leasing of cocoa estates belonging to the Spanish estate
owners who fled (para 2.15), a new class of producers has emerged,
consisting of small absentee planters, gerprally civil servants from
Malabo. Although the organization of production continues to evolve, the
outcome of this evolution is difficult to predict as major uncertainties
associated in particular with land tenure and labor availability remain.
The most recent development was the nationalization in early May 1984 of
the abandoned estates.
2.04      In the above context, all farmers reduced the area under
production to some extent, regardless of original farm size. Shortages of
fungicides, field tools and hired labor meant that the remaining area
became less intensely cultivated, maintained and harvested. The overall
result was a decline in dry cocoa yield from about 850 kg/ha to 400 kg/ha
(1979-1982). Spare parts and fuel for cocoa dryers also became scarce,
and, with the exodus of large estate managers. expertise in cocoa
processing dwindled. Quality deteriorated to the point where currently the
prices of exported cocoa are discounted up to 7% relative to standard world



- 8 -
market prices. Therefore, farm level prices for cocoa and farm incomes
have stagnated, and the terms of trade between cocoa and production inputs,
food, and other consumer goods have deteriorated significantly. Thus, the
level of incentive to produce quality cocoa has seriously declined.
2.05      Nonetheless, cocoa production on Bioko can recover, since the
yield potential has not been impaired despite years of neglect. The
general condition of plantations is poor, but this varies among farms and
locations, with smallholder plantations generally better maintained than
larger estates. In all cases, relatively simple and low-cost weeding,
pruning and tree removal, along with fungicide treatment and the addition
of some fertilizer, all of which are husbandry practices known to farmers,
could result in a significant growth in yields within two to three years.
B. Production Environment
2.06      Topography.  Bioko (map IBRD 17954R), the major cocoa growing
region of Equatorial Guinea, is dominated by a volcanic peak, the Pico de
Basile, over 3,000 meters in elevation. Apart from a narrow coastal fringe
in the East, the littoral zones are steeply sloped and susceptible to
erosion if cleared of vegetation. The soft, porous rock of the island is
deeply incised by rivers flowing radially from the Pico and from two
volcanic necks in the South. The natural vegetaLion of the island is humid
rain forest, although at lower elevations most of the original hardwoods
have been removed or thinned to allow cocoa planting. Cocoa has been
planted along the coast and in the foothills up to about 500 meters of
elevation, except in the extreme South. Cultivation of horticultural crops
and temperate annuals, such as potatoes, is feasible in the Moka area, a
peneplain at 1,400 meters of elevation in the Southeast.
2.07      Climate.  Rainfalls in Bioko range from 1,800 mm to 5,000 mm a
year, with greater amounts recorded at higher elevations. In the
cocoa-growing areas they do not exceed 2,600 mm annually, with most rains
falling from March to October, when monthly precipitation is above 200 mm.
November to February is a drier period, with rainfall of around 50 mm
monthly, but low air temperatures, high humidity, low wind speeds and deep
moisture-retaining soils protect the cocoa from damage due to water stress.
Sunshine hours are few for such a cocoa-producing area in West Africa, with
only 950 hours a year on the average in Malabo, but high cocoa yields prove
that there is no shortage of needed incident solar energy. The irregular
topography of Bioko leads to the formation of varied micro-climates. In
general, precipitation and humidity rise with increasing altitude, leading
to a greater occurrence of black pod fungus disease at higher elevations.
2.08      In the lower foothills of the island, erosion and weathering of
the soft, pH-basic, nutrient-rich basalt and volcanic ash have produced
deep, well-drained, medium to heavy textured red soils which are ideal for
cocoa. At higher elevations and on steep slopes, the soils are shallower
and younger with occasional outcrops of basalt. However, cocoa still grows
well in these soils because its roots penetrate deeply into the soft,
fissured, easily weathered substrata.



2.09      Roads.  The road network on Bioko suffered relatively little from
an almost total lack of maintenance during the post-independence period,
since the volume of traffic fell as the economy slumped. A 216 km paved
road connects Malabo to Luba along the West Coast and Riaba in the East
(map IBRD 17954R). All cocoa-growing areas are accessible by heavy-duty car
or pick-up truck, although four-wheel-drive vehicles are required in some
places during the rainy season.
2.10      Storage and Marketing.  All enterprises involved in the
fermentation and drying of cocoa, including estates, cooperatives and
commercial processors, have warehouses where dry beans are kept before they
are transported to Malabo, the point of expnrt. In Malabo, the five main
export firms and the CAMARA have large warehouses. In addition, a 4,000
ton air-conditioned warehouse was built in 1982 under a project financed by
the ADF. Malabo port has also been recently rehabilitated to improve its
ability to handle exports of cocoa and imports of agricultural inputs.
2.11      Production Techniques.  Equatorial Guinea's potential to increase
cocoa production under current technology is undisputable. The proposed
project, the thrust of which is to strengthen institutions, increase
availability of inputs and credit, and improve producer incentives (para
3.01). would help tap this potential. However, to pave the way for
long-term increases of production, research will also eventually be needed
to improve production technology, notably in crop protection, drying and
replanting. The project would finance consultant studies in support of
this research (para 3.15).
2.12      As for crop protection, black pod remains F. potentially serious
problem although its incidence is low where properl.y controlled with
periodic fungicide sprays (para 2.01). The Bordeaux mixture currently used
has proven to be effective in preventing the disease. However, it involves
using large volumes of water and inert material which results in high
transport costs and adverse implications for the timing of applications.
In addition, a large variety of heterogeneous spraying equipment is being
utilized with no evaluation of its comparative efficiency, costs and
overall suitability to local conditions. For example, tractors could be
efficiently used in some areas while they would be useless in others, due
to the varying topography and differing planting arrangements of each cocoa
farm. As for spraving, new chemicals and equipment could be introduced
which would result in increased labor efficiency, a shorter spraying cycle
and reduced costs.
2.13      The other two areas where studies are needed are cocoa drying and
replanting. The dryers currently used are expensive and located mostly on
large estates which charge small farmers up to 10% of the value of their
crop for drying. The dryers, although simple and easy to repair, are
costly because they require imported parts and equipment. In addition,
they use wood as the main source of energy. Consequently, unless
fast-growing species are planted, the related deforestation could upset the
ecology of the island in the future. There is a need for a study to
determine, under the conditions of the island, whether these drvers should
continue to be used or whether suitable alternatives should be explored,



- 10 -
such as small drying units (Samoan type) to be shared by groups of small
producers. Finally, there is a need to explore the possibility of
establishing a propagation unit responsible for producing suitable planting
material for replanting old areas as well as expanding the planted area.
This investigation would determine, among other things, the type of genetic
material (local vs imported) which would be most suitable for the
ecological conditions of the island.
C. Farm Structure and Production Levels
2.14      After the 1979 change in Government, which restored a measure of
social stability, cocoa production increased from about 5,400 tons in 1980
to about 8.200 tons in 1982, reaching an annual f.o.b. value of
US$13 million. However, since 1982, production has been declining again as
a result of serious shortages of production inputs, poor incentives for
farmers, and lack of financing (para 1.06). At present, about 42% (or
19,000 ha) of the 45,700 ha under cocoa trees is under production, as shown
in the table below.
National Cocoa Area by Farm Type
Number    Total Cocoa      Area under production
Farm Type                of farms      area (ha)          ha           Z
Cooperative Smallholders      1,650         8,000            5,000          62
Independent Smallholders        240         6,300            2,600         41
Medium Estates                   30         9,000            5,300          59
Large Estates                    30        10,400            4,500          43
Subtotal                   1,950        33,700           17,400         52
Nationalized Land                50        12,000            1,600          13
Total                      20           41Z22                           42
2.15     Of these five farm types, the first four are privately owned,
ranging in their average cocoa area from 5 ha for cooperative smallholders
to 350 ha for large estates, with some estates reaching 1,000 ha each.
These farms have on average only 52% of their cocoa area under production,
indicating the considerable scope that exists for expanding production.
The fifth farm type refers to cocoa plantations which were nationalized in
May 1984 (para 2.03). This land would not be involved in the proposed
project.



- 11 -
D. The Institutions
2.16     Three institutions are primarily involved in Equatorial Guinea's
cocoa sector: the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Credit and
Development Bank (BCD) and the Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture and
Forestry (CAMARA). The MOA has overall responsibility for policy and
programs to improve agriculture. Specifically, it is responsible for cocoa
extension work, quality control, pricing policy, and formulation of
recommendations for input and credit use. However, as is true for most
public institutions in the country, the MOA has virtually no equipment or
funds to support its operat'ons. Thus, its control of, and participation
in, cocoa grading have become unreliable, its extension service practically
inexistent and its pricing decisions not well founded. Apart from a few
senior officials who have received good out-of-country training and are
motivated, the general level of staff training, experience and motivation
is poor. Consequently, senior officials are over-burdened with the
minutiae of daily crisis management. This is exacerbated by a high degree
of disorganization within the Government and a lack of clear delineation of
ordinary administrative responsibilities in the ministries.
2.17      The BCD was established in 1979 as a state-owned bank to be the
main source of agricultural credit in the country. It is managed at the
working level by staff with good technical banking training, but whose work
is hampered by material and political constraints. The BCD lacks the means
to function efficiently, in particular to evaluate creditworthiness
adequately or supervise the use of loans proceeds. It uses antiquated
methods of accounting, transaction recording, and reporting. It has been
unable to :ecure adequate financing from the Bank of Equatorial Guinea
("Banco de Guinea Ecuatorial" - BGE, the Central Bank) except on a
short-term basis which has left it unable to award medium- and long-term
credit as required for productivity-increasing agricultural investments.
Thus, borrowers have been required to reimburse loans seasonally, even when
loans have been taken for longer term investments. This has increased the
tendency for late repayments and defaults. Moreover, because of its status
as a Government-owned bank and the lack of a strict application of
creditworthiness requirements, the BCD's credit facilities have been
severely abused by powerful Guineans, including Government officials, who
have secured loans through influence and/or coercion.
2.18      As the follwing table shows, the BCD's total and primary sector
(agricultural and crop marketing) lending portfolio grew rapidly during the
first two years, 1979 and 1980. Credit to the primary sector decreased
slightly in value between 1980 and 1983; its relative share in the total
loan portfolio declined as the BCD expanded its lending to the tertiary
sector (commerce) and to individuals for non-produztive purposes.



- 12 -
Credit and Develonment Bank (BCD)
Lending Portfolio by Sector, 1979-1983
(in million BK)
12/31/79      12/31/80       12/31/81       12/31/83
Sector             Amount    Z   Amount    Z   Amount    Z   Amount    Z
Primary                295    41   1,640    36   1,583    23   1,499    20
Secondary                -     -      632    14      180     3      974    13
Tertiary               332    46   1,989    44   4,315    63   4,047    54
Other                   99    13      242     6      803    11      975    13
Total               726   100   4        100   68       100   7 495   100
2.19      Much of the credit awarded by the BCD since its creation in 1979
was either diverted from agricultural investment or misused because of the
low level of agricultural management skills and prolonged absences of
borrowing landholders from their plantations. As a result, by the beginning
of 1983, about 70% of the BCD's loan portfolio was overdue, of which 48%
was considered as bad debts or non-performing assets. As the BCD is
financed principally by short-term loans from the BGE which it cannot repay
or service, it is technically bankrupt, as shown in the summarized balance
sheet belov. The Government has recognized the seriousness of this
situation and in February 1983 launched a large campaign to recover the
BCD's outstanding loans. Borrowers, including senior officials, received
letters threatening court action if loans were not repaid or rescheduled.
The campaign produced positive results, since by December 1983 about 60% of
overdue loans had been repaid or rescheduled.
Credit and Development Bank (BCD)
Summarized Balance Sheet - December 31, 1983
(in million BK)
Assets                                   Liabilities
Amount  Z                                  Amount  %
Fixed Assets               31              Net Worth                  951   9
Debts overdue           3,926
Sub-total (Long-Term)  3,957   37          Deposits                 2,613  25
Medium-Term             5,892   56         Short-Term
(Central Bank)          6,981  66
Liquidity                 696    7                                     _
Total               10.545   1,O           Total                10545 100



- 13 -
Nonetheless, the BCD continues to face a serious financial problem which
should be solved if this bank is to play a role in executing the proposed
project. Therefore, as a condition of credit effectiveness, the BCD should
present to IDA a Government-approved balance sheet audited by independent
auditors, showing that outstanding debts judged non-recoverable have been
eliminated from its assets and assumed by the Autonomous Fund for the
Amortization of the Public Debt ("Caja Aut6noma de Amortizaci6n de la Deuda
Pu'blica" - CAADP) (para 8.02(a)).
2.20     The CAMARA was, during the pre-independence era, a semi-autonomous
organization run by cocoa and coffee estate owners and timber businessmen
along with representatives of the colonial administration. It coordinated
the assembly, exportation and taxation of primary agricultural products
from Bioko. The CAMARA had the ability and responsibility to negotiate
with world market traders to obtain fair prices for bulk exports, and at
the same time, to ensure that revenues earned were appropriately taxed and
that creditor banks were reimbursed before the distribution of the
remaining proceeds to farmers. It also negotiated bulk purchases of
production inputs, and imported, stored, and distributed them. When
transformed into a fully-owned state authority after independence, the
CAMARA continued to perform these functions and was, in addition, given
monopoly over the export of primary agricultural products. However, its
operational capacity decreased progressively; its control over the
exportation of cocoa, coffee and timber weakened since the CAMARA lacked
information and contact with world markets, obtained reduced cooperation
from Equato-Guinean estate owners and producers, and suffered general
deterioration in staffing and management, physical installations, and
general operational support. The CAMARA's agricultural input procurement
and distribution operations have progressively slowed down because of a
lack of foreign exchange to purchase inputs overseas and poor
administrative procedures. Moreover, as with the BCD, the CAMARA was
unable to control the sale of inputs on credit to influential
Equato-Guineans, with the result that by 1983 outstanding debts owed to the
CAMARA amounted to about US$4.3 million.
2.21      To remedy this situation the Government, at the beginning of
1983, created a high level commission with power to restructure the CAMARA
and restore its financial soundness and operating efficiency. Since then,
some progress has been achieved on these fronts: as of June 1983, the
commission had recovered 20% of the CAMARA's bad debts and as of October
1983, it had released new draft statutes for the CAMARA. However, further
measures are required to help the CAMARA recover. To assist the commission
in formulating and implementing these measures, the Government, as part of
project preparation and start-up activities, requested the International
Trade Center (ITC) to examine the CAMARA's new draft statutes and
organizational structure in relation to the CAMARA's goals and role. IDA
reviewed the draft statutes at negotiations in the light of ITC's
recommendations and obtained assurances that all the necessarv changes in
these statutes, reflecting in particular the discontinuation of the
CAMARA's involvement in credit activities, and in the CAMARA's
organizational structure and accounting system, would be implemented (para
8.01(a)). As a condition of effectiveness, the statutes should be amended



- 14 -
as agreed upon at negotiations (para 8.02(b)). Another consultant study,
to get underway shortly, will also examine the CAMARA's financial accounts
and accounting system. As a condition of effectiveness, the CAMNRA should
establish a Government-approved balance sheet audited by independent
auditors, indicating that all its outstanding debts judged non-recoverable
have been eliminated from its assets and transferred to the CAADP (para
8.02(a)).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Scope
3.01      The project would assist the Government in realizing its
short-term objectives for economic recovery (para 1.07) and in reactivating
the institutional, financial and incentive systems required for suetained
recovery of the cocoa sub-sector. The project would capitalize upon the
earlier substantial investments in cocoa, for which a proven production
technology exists and where important short-term production increases are
feasible if the present weak institutional situation were improved,
adequate input financing were made available, and the necessary incentives
were given to producers. If successful, this approach would also help
restore the Government's credibility with Equato-Guineans and with the
international community, and would give the Government needed experience in
project management. Given the limited capacity of the public sector
institutions in the country, the project would contain only a few key
components, thus facilitating coordination of activities while
strengthening key institutions through a combination of restructuring,
staff training, and technical assistance. Likewise, given the significant
overall risk of the project and the untested and evolving environment for
project activities (para 2.03), the project size has been limited to what
is considered optimal in terms of amount of funds, areas and number of
target farmers. To ascertain progress in project implementation and
examine all matters pertinent to the future evolution of the project, a
project interim review would be undertaken jointly by the Government, IDA
and tbe co-financiers by March 31, 1987 or earlier, whenever 50Z of the IDA
credit had been disbursed (para 8.01(b)), with a view to possibly adjusting
project scope, size, and procurement programs to initial project
objectives. Disbursement against the credit component after September 30,
1987, would be conditional on the results and recommendations of this
review (para 8.03).
3.02      The project would focus on narrowly-defined target groups of
farmers who could be expected to respond best to improvements in input
supply and incentives, and who would meet rigorous creditworthiness
criteria (para 5.05). About 565 such farmers in total (282 of the national
cocoa farm population) judged to have the required credit repayment history
and farm management capabilities would benefit directly, and all producers
in the cocoa sub-sector indirectly, from project-supported interventions.
The annual numbers of cocoa farmers enrolling in the project are presented
in Annex 3-1.



- 15 -
3.03      Because of their better technical knowledge and experience, and
better access to information about the project, large-estate owners or
managers are expected to respond more rapidly than smallholders. One
potential problem under the project is thus that credit distribution could
become skewed toward the estates to the detriment of the smallholders.
Beyond adverse distributional implications, this could have negative
consequences on production. To handle such a problem the ACD would give
special assistance to the smallholders in completing credit application
procedures; also the interim review would examine the need to adjust the
credit program through measures such as increasing the total amount of
credit funds or limiting access by the estates.
B.  Summary Description
3.04      Production increases would be achieved, without new plantings,
through: (a) intensification of the use of selected plantations currently
under production to increase yields with a higher use of labor and
purchased inputs, and better husbandry techniques; and (b) rehabilitation
of selected abandoned plantations to enlarge the area under production.
Intensification would take plac2 on 3,715 ha, representing some 20% of the
19,000 ha of cocoa currently under cultivation on Bioko (para 2.14); the
area to be rehabilitated would be 3,835 ha, equal to an increase of 20% of
the currently cultivated cocoa area; the total area of 7.550 ha under the
project would represent 17% of the national area planted with cocoa (Annex
3-1). By the end of the investment period in PY6, the incremental cocoa
production would reach 3,143 tons; at full production in PY12, incremental
output would rise to 4,166 tons, equal to 55% of average annual
Equato-Guinean cocoa exports during 1980-82 (para 2.02). Other summary
project indicators are in Annex 3-2.
3.05      Over the five years of project implementation, specific action
would be taken to:
(a) reinforce the Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) within the
Credit and Development Bank and train Equato-Guineans in credit
supervision;
(b) strengthen the CAMARA in input procurement and
distribution, monitoring and marketing of cocoa exports, cocoa
grading and quality control;
(c) strengthen the 24OA's capacity for planning and monitoring
production activities in the cocoa sub-sector by creating a Cocoa
Production Monitoring and Control Unit (CPMCU); and
(d) provide agricultural credit to meet the seasonal, medium-term and
long-term financing needs of creditworthy cocoa producers.



- 16 -
C. Detailed Features
1. BCD's Agricultural Credit Department (ACD)
3.06      In order to expand and upgrade the BCD's farm credit operations,
the ACD would be strengthened through the employment of an internationally
recruited agricultural credit specialist with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA. He would serve for four consecutive years as director
of the existing ACD (para 5.03). The ACD would be further strengthened by
the creation of a Credit Supervision and Monitoring Unit (CSMU). the main
function of which would be the assessment of creditworthiness (para 5.04).
The Unit would be headed by an internationally recruited agronomist vith
experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA, as skills provided by such
experts are not presently available in Equatorial Guinea. He would serve
for four years under a contract and with terms of reference agreed with IDA
(para 3.14).
3.07      Project funds under this component would cover the above eight
man-years of technical assistance and the cost of construction of housing
in Malabo, since acceptable housing is not currently available. Project
funds would also be earmarked for the minor upgrading of the BCD offices,
repair of the BCD warehouse in Malabo covering 2,100 m2, modern office
equipment, and five vehicles for the ACD and the CSMU. Incremental local
personnel costs for the CSMU staff would be met through project financing.
Finally one man-month per year of short-term consultancy would be provided
to audit the ACD's accounts.
2. The CAMARA
3.08      Under the project, the CAMARA would carry out th:ee principal
functions: (a) importing agricultural inputs and machinery for sale to
farmers; (b) monitoring, controlling and negotiating export contracts with
Equato-Guinean exporters and world market traders; and (c) monitoring and
improving the quality of cocoa beans for export. To this end, the project
would reinforce the Input Supply Service and Export Marketing Service of
the CAMARA which have operated inefficiently and have had little activity
in recent years. The project would also create a new Inspection and
Grading Service to: (a) enforce strict cocoa classification prior to
export and price differentials for various bean cualities, and (b) take
measures to improve quality through better processing (paras 5.11 and
5.12). Two internationally recruited specialists with experience in the
wholesale trade, and international cocoa marketing and cocoa quality
control/grading, respectivelv, would be hired by the CAMARA to fill the
posts of chief of the Input Supply Service (four years), and chief of the
Export Marketing and Inspection/Grading Services (three years) (para 3.14).
3.09      Project funds under this component would cover the above seven
man-years of technical assistance, including housing in Malabo. The
project would also provide modern office equipment for the Input Supply
Service, to improve inventorv control; communications equipment for the
Export Marketing Service, to enable it to keep abreast of latest
developments in the world cocoa market; and laboratory equipment for the



- 17 -
Inspection and Grading Service, to carry out chemical analyses of cocoa
bean samples. The CAMARA's warehouses covering about 10.000 m2 would be
upgraded. The project would also finance the purchase and maintenance of
six cars and four trucks and incremental local salary costs. Finally,
8.5 man-months of short-term consultancies would be made available for the
establishment of the audit reports and general managerial and accounting
support (para 3.15).
3. Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit
3.10     The MOA is the lead institution for policy and programs in the
cocoa sub-sector, but it lacks effective capacity to perform these tasks
(para 2.16). To strengthen that capacity, the project has established a
CPMCU. This unit would have overall responsibility for planning and
monitoring activities in the cocoa sub-sector (para 5.14); it would also be
given specific responsibility for managing the proposed project (para
5.15). It would be headed for five years by an internationally recruited
staff who would serve as project manager. The Guinean counterpart
(co-director) has alTeady been designated and has experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA. The unit would be further staffed by a
Guinean cocoa production specialist (already designated) and a small team,
eventually consisting of five field technicians, in charge of technical
work. It would also be given secretarial, transportation and other
operating facilities. In addition, ten man-months have been earmarked in
PY3 for assistance to the CPMCU in establishing the feasibility study of a
possible follow-up project (para 5.15). Finally 5.5 man-months have been
allocated for further studies to be defined in consultation with IDA.
4. Agricultural Credit
3.11      The project would provide both seasonal, and medium- and
long-term credit.  Seasonal credit would be used to finance: (a) production
inputs, including copper sulfate, lime, and fertilizer; (b) simple hand
tools and equipment, including machetes, files, metal mixing drums, and
boots; and (c) wages of farm labor, including manual workers and
specialized estate workers such as foremen, drivers, mechanics, and
accountants. A typical short-term credit allocation for these purchases
would amount to about US$237/ha for cooperative smallholders, US$301/ha for
independent smallholders and US$510/ha for estate owners. Medium-term
credit would cover the purchase of farm machinery for estates, including
45-horsepower tractors, trailers, 600- and 1,200-liter tank sprayers, and
chainsaws; it would also finance vehicles, including four-ton trucks and
small four-wheel-drive vehicles. Such medium-term credits would amount to
about USS80/ha. Long-term credit would finance the partial renovation of
on-farm infrastructure, about 11 cocoa dryers (roofing, slate tiles, diesel
engines, rakes, cables), 15 warehouses for storing cocoa beans and inputs.
and 448 farm workers' housing units on 15 estates, as well as maintenance
and running costs of these units. These credits would amount to about
US$30/ha.
3.12      All farmers belonging to the smallholders and estates categories
would be eligible for seasonal and medium-term credit, while estate owners



- 18 -
would also be eligiDle for long-term credit. Depending on whether they
meet conditions of creditworthiness for the type of loan to be granted
(para 5.05), farmers who rent part or all of their land would also be
eligible for credit, but no credit would be extended to farmers for land
which was under litigation (para 2.15). The detailed needs for the four
types of farmers are shown in the Project File (E6); the corresponding
credit program of the BCD, accounting for the gradual phasing-in of
participating farmers and attendant build-up of the procurement program, is
summarized below.
Amcunt of Credit Granted by the BCD to
Project Fau.s, by CRo Year
(Cirrent±US$'000)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  l190
IDn Type               (PY1)  (P2   (PY3)  0(P4)  (PY5)  (6)         Total
Seasoral                 100   740  1,730  2,740  3,320  3,870       12,50
IwIix-Tem                30   370   590   930   680   580            3,180
Icrg-Term                10    90   250   390   320   160            1,220
Total Credit
R rezents           140  1,200  2,570  4,060  4,320  4,610      16,900
Less: reaymets by
farrs on seasoral
and medium-term    --    -      110   750  1.820  3,820        6,500
credit
Total Credit Financed
by the Project     140  1.20  2.460  3.310  2.500   790        10,400
of which:
- Credit in Cash    50   460  1,120  1,630  1,340    --         4,600
- Credit in Kird    90   740  1,340  1,68   1,160   790         5,800
3.13      Since only part of the technical assistance needed to handle the
international purchase of goods is already in post, the goods procured for
the 1985 season credit program starting in March 1985 would consist only of
seasonal inputs (copper sulfate, lime and fertilizer) for an amount of
approximately US$90,000, financed from the PPF advance. The full size
annual procurement programs comprising seasonal inputs as well as field
equipment would start only in 1985 (PYl), in time for distribution at the
beginning of the 1986 crop year (PY2). The corresponding disbursements,
accounting for the need each year to prefinance the inputs for the
following year (para 4. 10), are summarized in the table on the following
page.



- 19 -
Total Disbursements for Credit in Kind
by Year of Expenditures
(Current US$'000)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   1989
Loan Type           (PYO)   (PYI)   (PY2)   (PY3)   (PY4)  (PY5)       Total
Seasonal              60      400     830     920     650      400     3,260
Medium-Term            -       40     110     190     220      160       720
(Chemicals)
Medium-Term            30     300     400     570      290     230     1,820
(Equipment)
Total               90      740   JI340   ±at2    81,60   0 790 5=8O
5.  Technical Assistance and Training
3.14      The team of five experts for a total of 20 man-years (paras 3.06.
3.08 and 3.10) has already been selected based on detailed terms of
reference agreed upon by IDA and the Government (Project File, Fl), and is
being provided by Landell Mills Associates Limited of Bath, England. The
chief of the Input Supply Service and the chief of the CPMCU have been in
post since October 1984; the first expert would remain in post until end
1988 (PY4). i.e., for 4 years, but the chief of the CPMCU would remain
until the third quarter of 1989 (PY5). i.e., for 5 years. The other three
experts will be arriving during the first four months of 1985, so that the
team will be fully operational in early May 1985 (PY1): the director of the
ACD, and the chief of the CSMU would remain until the beginning of PY5 (4
years), whereas the chief of the Export Marketing and Inspection/Grading
Services would complete his assignment by the beginning of 1988 (PY4),
i.e., in 3 years. To facilitate an eventual transfer of responsibility,
one of the major obligations of the resident international staff would be
to provide in-service training to their Guinean deputies. This would be
done through the preparation of annual work plans specifying the tasks to
be carried out by each expert, his local deputy(ies) and others in their
working group, and also specifying the experts' training responsibilities
includirg the designation of the nationals to be trained and the areas of
their training. The project interim review (para 3.01) would assess the
capacity of the local counterparts to take over the positions occupied by
the internationally recruited staff and review the attendant role and
functions of the technical assistance. The Government agreed at
negotiations that the above five key posts would be filled, for the length
of time required, by internationally recruited specialists with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para 8.01(c)), the
employment at post of these experts being a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 8.02(c)). Assurances were also obtainee at
negotiations that the annual work plans of the resident international
staff, indicating in particular their training responsibilities, would be
submitted to IDA for review and approval by September 30 of each year (para



- 20 -
8.01(d)). The long-term technical assistance needs are recapitulated in
Annex 3-3.
3.15     In addition to the above long-term technical assistance, a total
of 32 man-months of short-term consultancies would be provided under the
project to the ACD, the CAMARA and the CPMCU for specific tasks for which a
full-time technical assistance post would not be justified. The
consultancies have been programed for assistance to the ACD and the CAMARA
in the audit of their accounts (6 man-months), provision of managerial and
accounting support to the CAMARA (6.5 man-months), and technical support to
the CPMCU (19.5 man-months) (para 5.14). These short-term consultancies
are summarized in Annex 3-3.
3.16      Beyond the on-the-job training provided by the technical
assistance staff, provision would be made for formal long- and short-term
training overseas for selected staff of the MOA, the BCD, and the CAMARA.
Fellowships for a total of six man-years of post-graduate studies at
specialized institutions acceptable to IDA would be provided in cocoa
agronomy, agricultural economics, and business/public administration. To
ensure the return of the trained staff to Equatorial Guinea, these would be
required to sign a contract by which they would commit themselves to
resuming their work upon completion of their studies.
3.17      In addition to the long-term academic training, a total of 14
man-months of study tours and short courses overseas would be made
available to upgrade the skills of selected staff from project implementing
institutions. These study tours and courses would be, among others, in
cocoa production techniques, cocoa propagation, accounting, business
policy, financial management, international trade, and agricultural
economics. Training activities would be programmed and monitored by the
CPMCU. Proposals to this effect would be prepared and submitted to IDA for
review during PY1, after the resident specialists have prepared their own
detailed work programs. Further details on the training program are in
Annex 3-4.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
4.01      Project costs are estimated at US$16.2 million, with a foreign
exchange component of 77% (table on page 22). These costs include taxes on
locally procured items, but exclude taxes and import duties on direct
imports, since the Government has indicated that they would be waived.
Residual taxes and duties account for US$0.7 million or 4%, leaving a
net-of-tax total of US$15.5 million.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on mid-1984 prices using a shadow
exchange rate of US$1.00 = BK1,500, which reflected the parallel market
rate; this was the best estimate for the exchange rate that would result
from a devaluation of the epkwele and the adoption of the CFA franc as the



- 21 -
national currency. In fact, the devaluation which took place in early
January 1985 was roughly of this order and is not expected to affect the
accuracy of base cost estimates for the project. The evolution of unit
costs will be closely monitored during early supervision missions, and
project cost will be updated, with targets adjusted if needed, during the
project interim review. It is further assumed that under the new currency
regime and for the specific items included in the project, forecasts of
international inflation rates are the best indicators for expected price
increases expressed in U.S. dollars for both foreign and local costs.
Therefore, price contingencies have been compounded yearly as follows:
3.75% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% yearly thereafter. Total contingencies,
including 10% physical contingencies on all items, amount to about 242 of
total project costs and 32% of base costs (Annex 4-1).
4.03      Project costs cover implementation of the two sets of components:
institution-building executed by the BCD, the CAMARA and the MOA
respectively, and agricultural credit executed by the BCD. Costs under the
three institution-building components represent 38Z of the base costs; they
reflect the incremental investments and operating costs that the BCD, the
CAMARA and the MOA would incur as a result of the execution of the project,
including the costs of project preparation already incurred under the first
PPF advance (US$200,000) and most of the costs financed under the second
PPF advance (US$670,000 out of US$750,000) (para 1.01). Since the latter
advance is earmarked for early project implementation, it has been included
in the corresponding project cost categories and does not appear as a
separate cost item like the first advance. The single most important cost
item. accounting for approximately 20% of base costs, is technical
assistance for a total of 272 man-months: 240 man-months of long-term
technical assistance (para 3.14) and 32 man-months of short-term
consultancies (para 3.15).  Costs under the credit comoonent. which
represent 62% of the base costs, consist of the incremental working capital
requirements for project-related credit operations. They have been
computed as total expenditures for credit-related imports and total cash
credit requirements, less repayments by farmers (para 6.12), taking into
account the time lag existing between, on the one hand, the time when
foreign suppliers of imported agricultural inputs must be paid and the
farmers receive the credit and, on the other hand, the time when farmers
repay, from the proceeds of cocoa exports, the corresponding credit granted
to them. Since this time lag is approximately 18 months (para 4.10), in
the first two years of the project the entire working capital needed for
project credit operations would be financed under the project. Thereafter,
only the incremental portion (total needs less repayments by farmers) would
need to be financed externally. In view of the country's critical balance
of payments situation, external financing of this expenditure under the
project is necessary to ensure timely availability of agricultural inputs
and equipment to farmers.



- 22 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
In million Bipkwele                 In million USS
Local    Foreign    Total         Local      Foreign    Total
Institution Building
ACD
Capital costs                                              150        340        490          0.1        0.2         0.3
Operating costs                                            420        140        560          0.3        0.1        0.4
Technical Assistance/Consultancy Training                   20      1,150      1,170           -         0.8         0.8
Sub-Total                                                  590      1,630      2,220          0.4         1.1        1.5
CAMARA
Capital costs                                              150        670        820          0.1        0.5        0.6
Operating costs                                            400        220        620          0.3        0.1        0.4
Technical Assistance/Consultancy Training                  150      1,210      1,360          0.1        0.8        0.9
Sub-Total                                                  700      2,100      2,800          0.5        1.4        1.9
MOA
Capital costs                                              100        200        350          0.1        0.1        0.2
Operating costs                                            150         70        220          0.1        0.1        0.2
Technical Assistance/Consultancy Training                   -       1.050      1,050           -         0.7        0.7
Sub-Total                                                  250      1,370      1,620          0.2        0.9        1.1
Project Preparation                                         af -       300        300           -         0.2        0.2
Sub-Total Institution Building                            1,540      5,400      6,940           1.1       3.6        4.7
Credit
Long-term                                                    460        690      1,150           0.3        0.4        0.7
Medium-term                                                  450      2,850      3,300           0.3        1.9        2.2
Seasonal                                                   1,680      5,360      7,040           1.1        3.6        4.7
Sub-Total Credit                                           2.590      8,900    11,490            1.7       5.9         7.6
Base Costs                                                   4.130    14.300    18,430             2.8        9.5       12.3
Physical Contingencies                                       410      1,430      1,840           0.2        1.0        1.3
Price Contingencies                                        1,070      3.000      4,070           0.7        2.0        2.7
Sub-Total Contingencies                                    1,480      4,430      5,910          0.9        3.0        3.9
Total Project Costs                                          5,610    18 .70    24&340             3.7       12.5       16.2
Taxes                                                    (1,050)         -    (1,050)           (0.7)        -        (0.7)
Total Costs, Net of Taxes                                    4_.562    18730    23&290             3.0       12.5       15.5
a/ Covered by the first 1981 PPF advance (US$200,000); preparation costs financed by the second 1983 PPF advance
(US$750,000) are included in the corresponding cost items.



- 23 -
B. Financing Plan
4.04      The project would be financed by:  (a) an IDA development credit
of US$9.3 million equivalent (57% of project costs); (b) a loan from the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa ("Banque Arabe pour le
Developpement Economique en Afrique" - BADEA) of US$2.8 million equivalent
(17% of project costs); (c) a grant from EEC of ECU 1.2 million (US$0.9
million equivalent) (6% of project costs); (d) a loan from the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) of US$1.0 million equivalent (6% of
project costs); and (e) a Government contribution of US$2.2 million (14% of
project costs) (see table on the following page). External financing would
cover 100% of foreign costs (US$12.5 million) plus 40% of local costs
(US$1.5 million). The low level of Government participation (10% of
project costs net of taxes) is justified because of the country's extremely
tight budgetary constraints. Government's contribution would increase over
time as project benefits materialize, i.e., the Government would not
contribute any funds in PYI; it would start contributing 5% of project
costs in PY2 and its contribution would increase to 11% and 20% in PY3 and
PY4 respectively, to reach 34% in PY5. The IDA credit would be awarded to
the Government on standard IDA terms. The EEC contribution would be a
grant; BADEA's participation would be in the form of a loan including a
five year grace period, with 16 years maturity and 6% interest, and OPEC
contribution will be as a loan including 5 years grace period, with 17
years maturity, no interest, and service charges of 1% per annum on amounts
withdrawn and outstanding. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the co-financiers contributions would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit (para 8.02(d)). Details on the financing
plan by co-donor and year are in Annex 4-2; details of IDA financing by
component and agency are in Annex 4-3.
4.05      The Government's contribution would be channeled through a
project account in local currency opened at the Central Bank in the name of
the project. The GoverXnent would open this account with an initial
deposit equivalent to US$40,000. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Government would open such a project account before December 31,
1985 and deposit funds in this account in quarterly instalments prior to
the beginning of each quarter (para 8.01(e)), equivalent to its expected
contribution to the project-related expenditures incurred by the operating
requirements of the ACD, the CAMARA and the MOA, for the quarter concerned.
4.06      IDA and BADEA contributions would be channeled through two
special accounts in foreign currency. At effectiveness, IDA would make an
initial deposit in its account of US$100,000 to constitute a project
revolving fund equivalent to about five months of expected disbursements
exclusive of direct payments under Procedure No. 3.  BADEA would disburse
its annual contribution at the beginning of each year starting in PY2, as
this contribution is earmarked for cash credit to be granted to farmers at
the start of the seasonal campaign. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be the establishment at the BGE of the special account for channeling
IDA funds (para 8.02(e)). Funds from OPEC and EEC would be disbursed as
direct payments.



- 24 -
(US$ mLuiior)
IDA     14D       ME         OPECO   WXv
Total    %  Aimt  %  hAt  %   Ant  %  A=t  Z  Ant
A. Institutiml Building
Buiblzige                  0.6   100 0.6  -
Vetdcles/EquiIt             0.7   100 0.7         - -. -    -    -   --  -   --
Increm.Toal Staff          0.6    33 0.2  ----  --  67 0.4
Rmnin   CostsA/hint.        0.6    33 0.2  --   --   67 0.4
Techical Assistaice         2.5    60 1.5 -              --      40  1.0  --  --
Traini*/Cnsultarwy          0.6   100 0.6                        -     --
Project Prep. Adv. a/       0.2   100 0.2                        --  --  --  --
Sub-total                 5.8    69 4.0                        17 1.0   14 0.8
B. ceit
In Cash b/                  4.6     9 0.4  61 2.8  --  --   --  --   30 1.4
InKin c/                    5.8    84 4.9  --  --  16 0.9   -         - --  --
Sub-total                10.4    51 5.3  27 2.8    9 0.9  --  --   13  1.4
Total inunrciag                16. 2    57 9.3  17 2.8    6 0.9   6   1.0  14 2.2
Note: Percentags are averages over the project period; percentages for each year are gLue in
Amexc 4-2.
a/  Covered by the first 1981 Project PrepaxatiLa Advance (US$200,000); preparatim costs
financed by the second 1983 PPF advance (US$750,000) are inclixied in the co pondilg cost
items. US$200,000 would be paid to MA as reimbursmlit of the first aiva3ce.
b/  Iricl4es cash for labor wages, mintenan=e and ruarng costs of veicles, equipmLt and
dryers, repairs of dryers and mintenane and repairs of faners' warehuses and 'ores'
houses.
c/ 1rcles sa11 tools, boots, sacls andrmns, equ-nnt, vehicles, agricultural hnicals
and fertilizer.



- 25 -
4.07      The combined resources of MA, the co-financiers and the Government
would finance: (a) capital and operating costs of the three institutions
involved (US$5.8 million), and (b) credit to farmers (US$10.4 million) as
follows:
(a) Capital and operating costs of the institutions would be
financed by IDA (US$4.0 million), OPEC (US$1.0 million) and the
Government (US$0.8 million). IDA funds would be passed on to
the BCD (US$1.2 million) and the CAMARA (US$1.7 million) as
grants, and to the MOA as a budget appropriation (US$1.1
million, including US$0.2 million which would be paid back to
IDA as reimbursement of the first PPF advance); these funds
would either be paid directly to suppliers or released at the
beginning of each quarter with ex-post justification, according
to the needs indicated in the annual budgets to be approved by
the Government and IDA. The signature of grant agreements
between the Government and the BCD, and the Government and the
CAMARA, respectively, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 8.02(f)); the establishment of the 1985
budget appropriation for the CPMCU would also be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 8.02(f)); in addition, at
negotiations, assurances were obtained that after 1985, the
Government, during the project implementation period, would
make the necessary annual budget allocations to the MOA to meet
the capital and operating costs of the CPMCU, and that,
following project completion, it would continue to fund the
CPMCU adequately so that this unit could pursue its activities
on a regular basis (para 8.01(f)).
(b) Funds earmarked for the credit component would be financed by
IDA (US$5.3 million), BADEA (US$2.8 million), EEC (US$0.9
million), and the Government (US$1.4 million), and would be
on-lent to the BCD to finance credit in cash (US$4.6 million)
and credit in kind (US$5.8 million). IDA funds would be
on-lent to the BCD under a subsidiary loan agreement between
the BCE and the BCD; signature of this agreement would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02(g)). As the
CAMARA would have responsibility for the procurement process
related to the import of inputs and equipment, the BCD will
on-lend the funds to the CAMARA during the short (three to four
months) period between the direct payments to foreign suppliers
and the distribution of goods to farmers, under a commercial
credit agreement; signature of this agreement would also be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02(g)).
C. Procurement
4.08     Procurement arrangements are summarized on the following page, with
the figures in parentheses shoving respective amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 26 -
hAunts ad &thods of Procurmet
(u$ t(0)Q~
Item tc be Procured                      Poaureuent Methbd          Total
KmB       LCmB      Odier      Costs
bAIJdInw                              --       600.                  600
(600)                (600)
Vehicles and EquiA  t                300        200 cl    200         700
(300)     (200)      (2D0)      (700)
Opeating Costs                        --        --      1,200 el   1,200
(400)      (400)
Tecbnical Assist                      --        --      3,100-/   3,100
(2,100)    (2,100)
Credit                             5,200 b/    600 S    4,600 Af  10,400
(4,300)     (600)      (400)    (5.300)
Project Preparation  vance            --        --        200        200
(200)      (200)
Total Costs                   5,500      1,400     9,300      16,200
(40        1.400       3)       19300
a/  Construction of huses for internationally reruitsd staff has been  mrded throa&
-lcal Caupetitive Bidding (LCB), since it was tmlikely that foreigm    ez        would
be iltexested.
b/  Contracts for vehicles, equi;nt and agricultural inputs In excess of TE$100,000 mld
be a;arded tuh   pterna      l    ettive Bidding (ICB) according to the Wbrld Bank
GidAelines; EEX finaned inputs ((IS$0.9 miUli) guaL be proced  ording to their
gridel iuoc
c/  Contracts betwm US$50,000 and US$100,000 mainly for vehicle parts, s1i1 equipuwt and
secific inputs wuld be awarded folliing ILCB promeues, i.dch have been foud
acceptable toD MA; it is expcted thiat all purhase tde this component wDi  be bTilked
into packges of at least US$50,000.
d/  Vehrcles amd equlpent financed out of the PFF adrance have been purcased -Ji
prxient  tn anl shopping.
e/  Operating soods and services of the ACD, the CAMARA and the M& wcl.d be procued
accordirg to local procedures ubiih have bese found acceptable to DA.
f/  The technical assistance te  has been xecruited in accordance with the 1brld Bank
Guidelies. Short term consultants du1 be recuited in accordance with these
gdtdel-es.
21  Credit in cash to farners.
h/  First trancie xly; the ite  being procured under the secod trandhe are included in
the relevant aboen catepries.



- 27 -
D. Disbursements
4.09      The proceeds of the IDA credit (US$9.3 million) are expected to
be disbursed over a six-year period, as shown in Annex 4-4. The
disbursement schedule assumes that the project would become effective in
April 1985. The fraction of the IDA credit which would finance loans to
farmers would be disbursed according to the projected rate at which farmers
would receive credit (para 3.12). The remaining funds are expected to be
disbursed according to the standard profile for Bank/IDA agricultural
projects in West Africa. The IDA credit would be disbursed as shown below.
Disbursemnt Schedule for the IDA Credit
hAnmLt              % of Total
Item                          (rS$ '000)                    WM
Civil works
Vebiles, equizmnt                1,100                  100%
consultncy and traiing
Salaies of local staff and         300         100% of costs incurred in 1985, 60%
operating costs                                in 1986, 2.5% in 1987 and 0% in
sisequent years.
Technical Assistance             1,300                   60%
Credit in idnd                   4,400                  100%
Credit in cash                    350          1t  during the first four years
Initial deposit in Special Acwmt   100
to prefinmne the above items
RefumdMng of Project Prepanrtim    950
Advances
Unallocated                        800
Total                          9,300
4.10      Disbursements for capital goods and other major disbursement
items would be supported by full documentation. Disbursements for
incremental maintenance and operating costs would be against statements of
expenditure, the documentation for which would be retained at the M0A for
scrutiny during the course of supervision mission. Disbursements for the
1985 credit-related import program, the purchase of vehicles for the key
project staff, the construction of housing for the technical assistance
staff and their fees up to credit effectiveness, and the consultancies



- 28 -
required at the early project implementation stage are being made under the
second PPF advance of US$750,000 (para 1.01). The disbursement/repayment
cycle for credit-related imports spans over approximately 18 months.
Annex 4-5 indicates the critical steps and monthly timetable of this cycle,
and the resultant flow of funds and accounting entries. The pace of
disbursements for agricultural credit - and the financial integrity of the
portfolio -- would depend on the speed of institutional development in the
BCD. This would be assessed during the joint interim review (para 3.01),
and a special condition for the disbursement of funds for the agricultural
credit after September 30, 1987, would be that the BCD meet objective
criteria for good performance, agreed at negotiations (para 3.01).
E. Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
4.11      The BCD. the CAMARA, and the MOA would maintain separate accounts
for their respective project components. Initially, a consultant recruited
with PPF financing would assist the CAMARA in establishing a new balance
sheet (para 2.21), so that it could meet IDA's credit effectiveness
cond5tion (para 8.02(a)). The accuunts of the BCD, of the entire CAMARA
and of the CPMCU would be audited annually by independent auditors of
international repute acceptable to IDA, whose reports would be forwarded to
IDA and the co-financiers within six months of the end of the financial
year. The auditors' report on project expenditures would include
verification whether: (a) goods and services had been procured from member
countries of IDA, Switzerland and Taiwan; (b) goods had been received or
work performed; (c) payments had been made; and (d) statements of
expenditure used for disbursements had been accurate and complete.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(g)).
The ACD, the CAMARA and the CPMCU would submit to IDA quarterly progress
reports. Moreover, the CPMCU would prepare and submit to IDA: (i) within
six months of the end of the calendar year, fully detailed annual progress
reports including the CSMU's report on the preceding crop year's
operations; (ii) by June 30, 1987 or earlier (para 3.01), a report on the
results of the project interim review, including recommendations and a plan
of action for the remaining part of the project period; and (iii) within
six months after the credit closing date, a draft completion report.
Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(h)).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEKENT
A. General
5.01      The project would be implemented within the present institutional
framework of Equatorial Guinea's cocoa sub-sector. The principal
components would be executed as follows: credit by the BCD; input supply,
cocoa grading and export marketing by the CAMARA; and planning and
monitoring of cocoa-related activities and overall project management and
technical support by the CPMCU within the MOA. The BCD and the CAMARA



- 29 -
would be slightly restructured to overcome present deficiencies (paras 2.17
and 2.20). The project would expand the operational capacity of these two
institutions as required to enable them to execute project-supported
activities. These institutions would preserve their present links with the
Government, as their senior officials would remain Government appointees
and the Ministries would continue to be represented on their Board of
Directors. These arrangements, plus the creation of the CPMCU at the MOA,
give the Government sufficient scope for supervision of the BCD and the
CAMARA to ensure that project activities are carried out. The project
would not provide for institution-building toward the long-term growth of
the two institutions and, in particular, it would not contribute to
building up their financial capability (paras 6.12 and 6.14). Provided,
however, that this first operation is successfully carried out, it is
envisaged that such long-term objectives and measures for strengthening the
BCD and the CAMARA would be addressed under a subsequent project.
5.02     The internationally recruited specialists would work within these
administrative structures as line officers. Among them, the chief of the
CPMCU would serve as chief of party, having authority over other technical
assistance staff for all personnel and administrative matters. He would
also assist the MOA in coordinating project components, providing
logistical and administrative support and supervising project execution,
including the preparation of withdrawal applications (para 5.13). The
Government has indicated the names of the national staff with whom the
internationally recruited staff would be working. These counterparts to the
technical assistance staff would be finally confirmed and, if proven
satisfactory, elected after a period of on-the-job training and performance
assessment. Assurances have been obtained that they would be formally
appointed as deputies within one year after the arrival of the respective
technical assistance staff (para 8.01(i)).
B. BCD's Agricultural Credit Department (ACD)
5.03      The ACD would retain responsibility for receiving and evaluating
applications for credit provided by the project as well as other credit
granted by the BCD for agricultural purposes. The ACD would continue to be
supervised by the BCD's general manager, and loans would be approved by the
BCD's Loan Committee as is currently done. However, the ACDts annual
credit program, as well as all withdrawal applications by the BCD, would
have to be channeled through the CPMCU (para 5.13). The director of the
ACD would train all existing staff of the ACD in the improved credit
processing methods that would be introduced. He would also see that credit
applications are properly reviewed and approved according to strict
creditworthiness criteria (para 5.05). Such criteria were agreed upon
between the Government and IDA at negotldtions, and assurances were
obtained that they would be strictly applied as of project inception (para
8.01(j)).
5.04     Within the ACD, a new Credit Supervision and Monitoring Unit would
be created with the appointment of five field supervisors and two clerks
(para 3.06) (BCD's organizational chart is shown in Annex 5-1). Under the



- 30 -
responsibility of its internationally recruited chief, the CSMU would carry
out in-field inspections of the holdings of credit applicants, leading to a
technical assessment of their creditworthiness. During the growing season,
supervisors would make on-farm visits to monitor the use of loan proceeds,
detect emerging problems and determine whether further disbursements toward
the end of the season would be warranted. The CSMU would intensify
contacts with borrowers to assess expected reimbursements, and the two
clerks would maintain a record, to be updated regularly, on each borrower.
5.05      Loans would be awarded to creditworthy farmers in the form of
cash to cover current expenses such as wages, fuel and locally made goods;
and in the form of credit vouchers which would be redeemed at the CAMARA
for imported goods (fertilizer, fungicide and equipment). Creditworthiness
would be assessed by the ACD, based on the applicant's: (a) proven farm
management capability; (b) ability to repay,, based on the farm situation
and past repayment history; (c) presentation of adequate collateral; and
(d) appropriateness of security of land tenure for the type of loan to be
made. For seasonal loans, criteria (a) and (b) would be stressed, with a
claim on the harvested cocoa crop accepted as collateral. For medium- and
long-term loans, fixed assets, including land and buildings, would be
required as collateral.
5.06      Loan terms would be, in principle, as follows:  for seasonal
credit: 10-12 months; for medium-term loans: 6 years, with 2 years of
grace; and for long-term loans: 10 years, with 5 years of grace. In
applying these terms to any individual case, the BCD would make minor
adjustments to accommodate the specific circumstances of the applicants, in
particular, to ensure that they have positive annual cash flows. Thus,
owing to the size of their required investments, larger farms would be
awarded longer term loans for items such as machinery for which
smallholders would receive only medium-term loans. Also, to give further
incentives for farmers to enroll in the credit program and to avoid any
excessive financial hardship as a result of their efforts to expand
production, no down payments would be required for these loans.
5.07      All loans would initially bear an interest rate of 15%, covering
the following costs:
Cost Covered by BCD's Interest Rate
Interest due to the BGE                             8
Life Insurance                                      1
Provision for Bad Debts                             2
BCD's Administrative Costs                          4
Total Payable by Farmers                         l5
This rate represents a small improvement over the present rate (14%)
applied by the banking institutions in the country; it is expected to



- 31 -
result in a positive real interest rate; the domestic inflation rate would
be expected to stay below the inflation rates in local currency prevailing
in other countries of the Customs and Economic Union of the Central African
States, i.e., 13-15% annually, because of Equatorial Guinea's continued
commercial relationships with alternative sources of supply. Agreement on
the proposed initial rate was reached during negotiations, and assurances
were obtained from the Government that it would be reviewed each year and,
if necessary, modified in consultation with IDA (para 8.01(k)). The
setting of this lending rate should account for the changes in the domestic
structure of interest rates, especially as these changes may affect the
cost of money for the BCD; it should reflect the BCD's cost of
administering agricultural credit; and it should be fixed at such a level
compared with domestic inflation that it would be positive in real terms.
C. Input Supplv, Cocoa Marketing and Grading
5.08      The CAMARA would be responsible for the purchase and distribution
of agricultural inputs, cocoa grading and quality control, and export
marketing. The CAMARA has performed input supply and cocoa marketing
functions in the past. but with decreasing efficiency (para 2.20). To
improve the CAMARA's efficiency, the two administrative services performing
these tasks would be reinforced. The CAMARA would assume responsibility
for cocoa grading and quality control which was formerly a responsibility
assigned to, but not performed adequately by, the MOA (para 2.16); a new
service would be created to that effect. The CAMARA's proposed
organization structure is shown in Annex 5-2. To carry out its
responsibilities under the project, the CAMARA's management needs to be
strengthened. To this effect, a national vith adequate qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA has been appointed to the position of
general manager ("Interventor"), and has been in post since October 1984.
5.09      Input Supply.  The procurement, storage, and distribution of
agricultural inputs would be handled by the Input Supply Service of the
CAMARA. This service would be headed by an internationally recruited
business manager with experience in the wholesale and/or retail trades, who
would be responsible for estimating the annual demand for inputs, procuring
them through ICB. end selling them to farmers for cash or BCD credit
vouchers. This expert would also provide general advisory assistance to
che general manager.
5.10      The headquarters of the Input Supply Service would be in Malabo
and would use the CAMkRA's central warehouses for storage. Existing CAMARA
accounting staff and clerks assigned to this service would be trained in
new stock control and sales accounting methods by the chief of service.
The CAMARA's general manager would also assign a senior staff member as a
counterpart to the chief of service no later than a year after arrival of
the latter, so that this national staff could be trained by him and
eventually take over from him upon termination of his contract. All
transactions would take place at the CAMARA's installation in Malabo; the
CAMARA would not deliver inputs to the farmgate. Exceptionally, the Input
Supply Service might make bulk deliveries to the CAMARA warehouses in Luba



- 32 -
(on the southwest shore of Bioko) if it is Justified by the volume of sales
to be made in that region; in that case. such delivery costs would be
passed on to buyers. The CAMARA would finance its purchase of inputs with
short-term credit from the BCD; it would repay this credit from proceeds of
its sales for cash or BCD credit vouchers.
5.11      Cocoa Marketing and Grading. The CAMARA's traditional role as an
intermediary in charge of marketing cocoa exports would continue, and its
Export Marketing Service would be strengthened under the project (para
5.12). In addition, the CAMARA would assume responsibility for cocoa
inspection and grading through the creation of a new Inspection and Grading
Service under the general manager's supervision. -The transfer of this
responsibility from the MOA to the CAMARA would ensure the required
operational link between inspection and grading, on the one hand, and cocoa
marketing, on the other. Both services would be headed by the same
internationally recruited expert who should have a basic training in
agronomy, supplemented with training and professional experience in
international cocoa marketing and grading.
5.12      As chief of the Export Marketing Service, the above
internationally recruited expert would ensure that all sales of cocoa or
coffee generate maximum revenues for the country and the producers. He
would negotiate export contracts, keep abreast of the latest information on
prices prevailing in key international markets, monitor shipping
arrangements, and coordinate the actions of the CAMARA with those of other
Government agencies and commercial banks. As chief of the Inspection and
Grading Service, he would apply internationally recognized norms to cocoa
exports, arbitrate between traders and Equato-Guinean exporters in support
of negotiations supervised by the Export Marketing Service, and control the
sanitary condition of the MOA's warehouse. He would see that the
Inspection and Grading Service supervise quality control tests which are
CAMARA's responsibility but will be carried out in the MOA's laboratory; he
would also make periodic inspections of drying and fermentation facilities
throughout the island to correct conditions leading to cocoa degradation.
Two Guinean staff would be appointed to serve as deputy chiefs of the above
Services.
D. Cocoa Production Management and Project Coordination
5.13      A Cocoa Production M4onitoring and Control Unit has been
established to strengthen the MOA's capacity to plan and monitor activites
in the cocoa sub-sector, and as a tool for managing the proposed project
(para 3.10). This unit would report directly to the Minister (the MOA's
organizational chart is shown in Annex 5-3). It would be headed by an
internationally recruited expert with training in agronomy, knowledge of
cocoa production, and adequate experience in project planning and
management. This expert would serve as project manager and chief of the
technical assistance team (para 5.02). As part of his duties as head of
the unit, he would, in particular, oversee all project-related
disbursements, control all project accounts and report on all
project-related activities.



- 33 -
5.14      In its general capacity, the CPMCU, in conjunction with the
Project rlanning, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit of the MOA, would assist
the Minister in formulating policies and establishing programs for the
cocoa sub-sector, and in coordinating all cocoa-related investments (i.e.,
at present, the ADF-financed cocoa production project, the Spain-supported
cooperative program, and the proposed project). As part of these
functions, the CPMCU would be responsible for carrying out, with consultant
assistance, specific technical studies in cocoa spraying (para 2.12),
drying, and replanting (para 2.13), where investigation is needed.
Following diagnostic reviews in these fields during PY3, the CPMCU would
recommend alternative spraying and drying techniques adapted to the various
categories of farmers, and advise on sources of genetic material for
replanting and ways to establish nurseries.
5.15      In its project management function, the CPMCU would ensure
internal coordination of project-related activities and liaison with IDA,
the co-financiers, and other interested Government/foreign institutions,
and oversee all project-related accounts. This would include preparation
and transmission of project work programs, disbursement requests, and
progress reports to IDA and the co-financiers. The unit would also be
responsible for: (a) providing technical support to the BCD and the CAMARA
in cocoa-related production matters, including a report on the results of
the interim review; (b) preparing the project completion report; and (c)
with consultant assistance, establishing a feasibility study for a possible
follow-up project (para 3.15. and 4.11). However, the unit would not handle
credit delivery or cocoa sales and input procurement, as responsibility for
these operations would be vested solely in the BCD and the CAMARA,
respectively. Finally, the unit would monitor all project-related
activities, including: (a) key measures to be taken to ensure effective
project start-up and implementation; (b) key indicators, such as the number
of farmers and their cocoa areas enrolled annually, the yields and
production obtained, the size of ACD's credit program, and the CAMARA's
import procurement program; and (c) policy issues, such as recruitment of
labor from the mainland, establishment of cocoa prices, and the
implementation of an adequate incentive system (Annex 3-2 and Annex 5-4).
The CPMCU's performance would be assessed by the interim review team, which
would examine its functions, composition and location.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      Area.  Project farmers are expected to intensify cultivation on
that part of their cocoa plantations at present in production, over one
crop season, and rehabilitate that part of their cocoa plantations at
present abandoned, over a period of three years. These farmers would be
phased into the project over five years. By PY6, a total of about 7,550 ha
of cocoa plantations, representing 17% of the total area planted with cocoa
on Bioko, is expected to be cultivated by project-supported farmers. On



- 34 -
this area, production would have been intensified on 3,715 ha, and 3,835 ha
would have been rehabilitated, the latter figure representing an increase
in cultivated area on Bioko of 20% (para 3.C-'). Average cultivated cocoa
holdings would expand from 3 to 6 ha for cooperative smallholders, from 11
to 28 ha for independent smallholders, from 85 to 150 ha on medium estates,
and from 150 to 300 ha on large estates. Small-scale operations (under
30 ha each) would account for 58% of the area covered by the project, of
which 68% would be managed by members of cooperatives with average holdings
of 6 ha. The remaining 42% of cocoa area covered by the project would
concern medium and large estates. The pace of farmer enrollment in the
project and the attendant cocoa areas being intensified and rehabilitated
per category of farm would be ascertained against the above objectives at
the interim review stage.
6.02      Yields.  Yields (in terms of dry cocoa equivalent) are expected
to increase substantially with project-supported assistance, as shown
below.
Increase in Yields by Farm Type
(kg/ha)
Without    With Project
Farm Type                     Project  (at full development)   Z Increase
Cooperative Smallholders         350            600                 71
Independent Smallbolders         350            600                 71
Medium Estates                   450            950                111
Large Estates                    450            950                lll
For each individual farm, projected yields are expected to be attained
eight years after enrollment in the project, and to be the same for
intensified and rehabilitated areas. Projected yields are expected to be
higher on the larger estates than on smallholdings, as larger farms would
apply greater quantities of fertilizers, remove more excess-shade trees, do
better pruning, and spray fungicides more thoroughly. Such yield estimates
are prudent when viewed in the light of past performances (para 2.01); they
are deemed easily attainable by project farmers as higher average yield
levels are well within their reach. At full production in PY12, the
average yield of project participants would -reach 750 kg/ha, compared with
400 kg/ha without the project.
6.03      These yield increases would take place without replanting or any
major technical innovations. Physical conditions on Bioko are virtually
ideal for growing cocoa (para 2.01), and cocoa farmers are already skilled
and experienced in cocoa cultivation (para 2.05). These farmers are aware
of the critical value of agricultural inputs in improving yields; thev also
know the husbandry practices required to rehabilitate cocoa that has been
left untended for some time. Moreover, production credit has traditionally
been a common practice in the cocoa sub-sector, either as bank loans or,
more often, as advances in kind granted by traders and large estate owners



- 35 -
who supply inputs and dry cocoa to small planters. Therefore, if
appropriate inputs were made available through credit facilities to
farmers, these would be willing to purchase their inputs and would know how
to use them. For these reasons, it is expected that farmers from all
groups would actively seek participation in the project, and that those
enrolling in the project would have no difficulty achieving the expected
levels of yield.
6.04      The principal immediate constraints to improving yields are
insufficient labor and the lack of adequate inputs, machinery and economic
incentives (para 2.04). Achieving further technical improvements would
require a long-term investment in agricultural research, currently
non-existent in Equatorial Guinea, and such an investment is beyond the
scope of this project. The project would focus on relieving the immediate
constraints to increased production. Availability of inputs and equipment
would be improved, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
producer prices will be adjusted each year no later than January 31. in
line with price levels on international markets (para 8.01(1)). Similarly,
an adequate system of incentives for cocoa producers and laborers (through
devaluation of the epkwele and entry into the CFA zone) has been
established by the Government. Finally, to improve the labor situation,
the Government is taking specific measures satisfactory to IDA to
facilitate the recruitment of laborers from neighbouring countries,
including the granting of work permits on reasonable conditions; and
Government would furnish to IDA, not later than June 30, 1985, satisfactory
evidence that said measures have been taken. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(m)).
6.05      Output.  Total cocoa output from project farmers would increase
fourfold, from 1,467 tons without the project to 5,633 tons in PY12, and
would be produced in roughly equal amounts on intensified and rehabilitated
areas. The incremental production resulting from the project is equal to
55Z of average annual Equato-Guinean cocoa exports during 1980-82 (para
2.02). At full production in PY12, cooperative smalIholders would account
for 31% of incremental project output. independent smallholders for 15%,
medium estates for 23%, and larger estates for 31% (Annex 6-1). For
individual farm types, output would increase from 1.1 to 3.6 tons for
cooperative smallholders, from 3.8 to 16.8 tons for independent
smallholders, 38 to 143 tons for medium estates, and from 67 to 285 tons
for larger estates (Annex 6-2).
B. Markets and Prices
6.06      An oversupply of cocoa is proiected to keep world cocoa prices
depressed through most of the 1980s. Equatorial Guinea's incremental
production is unlikely to influence this situation, as it would represent
less than 1% of world cocoa exports. In constant 1983 terms, Bank
projections (September 1984) anticipate a long-term fall in world prices of
22% over 1985-90, from US$2.17/kg to USS1.69/kg (CUP Europe). From 1990 to
1995, world prices are expected to recover gradually to US$1.95/kg, just
slightly below the level of a decade earlier, but well below the 1976-80



- 36 -
average of US$3.59/kg and the 1977 peak price of US$5.14/kg (graph below).
These projections assume continued high production, especially in the Ivory
Coast and Brazil, coming from areas planted in the early 1970s, and
moderate growth in demand resulting from low income growth and increased
use of cocoa substitutes in the chocolate and confectionary industries.
COCOA INTERNATIONAL PRICES ACTUAL AND FORECAST
(IN 1983 CONSTANT USS/KG)
ACTUAL     FORECAST
J
a    75  n   7a   Aw  JO u'  a   a    4u
samm u" ur
6.07      The farmgate price of cocoa would fluctuate over the life of the
project to reflect movements in world market prices, the costs of
processing, transport and marketing, and the taxes levied by the
Government. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a review of
cocoa farmgate prices would be made annually by the MOA in consultation
with the CAMARA before the beginning of the campaign, and a benchmark price
for standard quality cocoa beans would be established in accordance with a
formula acceptable to IDA (para 8.01(1)). Lower prices would be paid for
cocoa of inferior quality, which would result in different prices for
different farm types. This system would ensure that prices would give
correct sigrals to farmers to adjust production and improve quality.
6.08      Based on the reference price for cocoa (Ghanaian cocoa, CIF
Europe), the benchmark producer price for 1984 would be derived as shown



- 37 -
below. Similarly, assuming quality differences, expected producer prices
for selected years and by farm type are shown in Annex 6-2.
Derivation of Producer Price of Cocoa
(1984, US$/ton)
CIF Europe (Ghanaian cocoa)                                      2,460
Less:  Quality Discount (3%)                                        74
Landing and Storage                                          36
ICCO levy (US$0.01/lb)                                       24
Freight and Insurance                                        81
FOB Malabo                                                       2,245
Less:  Export Tax (8% of FOB)                                      180
Port Handling, Sacks and Storage                             56
Transport Farm to Malabo                                     33
Export Overhead (1% of FOB) and
CAMARA Overhead (4% of FOB)                                 112
Farmgate Price                                                   1,864
C. Financial Results
6.09      Smallholders and Estate Owners.  The following budgets were
established for each category of farms: (a) a typical cocoa enterprise
budget over the period of eight years needed for the individual farm to
reach expected yields (table on the following page and Annex 6-3); and (b)
an average cocoa enterprise budget over the period of twelve years needed
for all farms in a particular category to enroll in the project and attain
full development (graph on page 39). The assumptions are as follows:
(a)  inflows include:  (i) revenues generated by the sales of cocoa at
farmgate prices (para 6.05) adjusted to follow world market
movements, minus processing, transportation, handling and
marketing costs, and taxes and levies (para 6.08); and (ii)
seasonal, short-term and long-term credit (para 3.11); and
(b)  outflows include:  (i) farmer payments for current agricultural
inputs such as hired labor, fungicide and fertilizer, and for
capital expenditures, such as equipment and civil works; and (ii)
debt servicing on BCD's credit for which 15% interest is paid and
farmers are allowed varying grace periods depending on the type
of credit they are awarded (para 5.06).



- 38 -
S=ary of Typical Gocoa  ,etrpre Bu&dgets
Witu and with Project (seleted Years and FalDeS lozt)
Without                      With Prolect
Project a/       pYI         PY4          PY8       PY12
Ccstant 1984 11S$
A. Cash FIm Per Farm
Cooperative uinllho3Aers          270            10         ,440        1,580      1,600
Iridepaent Snfllbolders           850           470        6,510       8,190       8,290
ediu size estates               5,020          2,930       5,230       38,56D     42,750
Larg estates                    8,020            --       17,800       65,800     93,880
B. Cash Flow Per Hectare
Coperative sal ers                 90            33          240         263         267
Idependent .lh      rs             77            29          232         292         296
edi±u-size estates                 59             28          35          257        285
Large estates                      53            --           59          219        313
C. Cash Flcr per Day of FaWily Labor
Cooperative snallbokldes          2.3            1.6         4.9         5.2         5.2
Independent unalliolders          3.4           2.4         17.5        21.7        22.0
a/ Average PYl-PYlO



- 39 -
6.10      The cocoa enterprise budgets were established for the without-project
situation as well. The cash flow positions were computed for the whole cocoa
farm first, and then on a per hectare basis, valuing family labor at the
prevailing market wage rate for the smallholders; in addition, for the
smallholders, cash flows per man-day were also calculated. It is worth noting
that in computing the cash flows, production inputs were valued at full cost, as
inputs would continue to be sold at unsubsidized prices. The cash flows are
presented in Annex 6-2 and sunmmarized in the graph below.
AVERAGE NET CASH-FLOW PER HECTARE
PER CATEGORY OF FARMERS, WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
(CONSTANT 1984 USS)
46S*
_  N OD. A COOPEtATXZV SMALLI@.DUS
--ego... *. LIADErENTM .aALjMawa
---No.. Cs MDDt ESTATS
----- Ds LAWUE ESATES
t:1 
PYt  PY2  PYS  Py4  PYOS  PT. PY  PYS  PYB PYIS PYI I PY12 FIL
IMS  16  1967 106 1  1I006 IWOOI I062 Ie=S 1004 100C 106 DEVELoPIQ
PROJECT 'IER
/ AVERAG PYI-PYIZ
6.11      The analysis shows that farmers' incomes would increase in relation to
the without-project situation as soon as the first or second crop year after
enrollment in the program, and that they would experience a substantial increase
thereafter. At full development, total cocoa incomes would have augmented by
factors of six, ten, eight and twelve for the cooperative and independent
smallholders, and the medium and large estates, respectively, yielding in all
cases very high financial returns. Similar rapid increases would be expected in
terms of the returns per hectare as shown in the graph on page 39. At full



- 40 -
development, these returns would increase three- to six-fold, depending on the
farm type, compared to the without-project situation; on the average, across
farm types, they would rise to US$285/ha as compared with US$75/ha without the
project. It is worth noting that the progre-sion would be quicker and steadier
for smallholders than for estates, since the estates would place greater
emphasis on investments which yield returns with a time lag. However, at full
development, returns per hectare would be highest for the large estates, as these
would benefit from economies of scale.
6.12      ACD.  The incremental income statement and the cash flow of the ACD
resulting from the project have been projected over 11 agricultural campaigns.
The following assumptions have been made:
(a) inflows include: (i) transfers to the ACD made as grants
during the project execution period to%cover capital, technical
assistance, training, and incremental operating costs; (ii) loans from
the BGE to cover agricultural credit awarded to farmers; and (iii)
repayments of principal and interest from farmers (para 3.12); and
(b) outflows include payments for the above costs and local personnel
costs for the period of the project. The ACD would continue to pay
for the incremental operating costs after project completion. It
would also pay for short-term cousultancies to continue technical
assistance for administrative and financial management. The ACD would
repay principal and interest to the BGE and would establish a fund for
bad debts and life insurance from proceeds earned in its agricultural
portfolio.
Detailed presentations of the ACD's cash flow and balance sheet are given in
Annexes 6-4 and 6-5.
6.13      The project's objectives for the credit component would be to
adequately channel funds to, and obtain repayments from, the target farmers. To
ensure this, the technical and management capabilities of the ACD would be
strengthened. This, however, would not include building up the financial
capabilities of this institution which, together with required ancillary
measures for institution-building toward its long-term growth, would be
addressed under a subsequent project (para 5.01). As a result, funds earmarked
for credit would be channeled to the ACD through a line of credit at the pace of
its on-lending to the CAMARA and the farmers; and the ACD would be required to
repay BCD immediately upcn receiving reimbursement. Under these financing
arrangements and on the assumption that agricultural credit would be managed as
predicted (para 5.03), the ACD would have a minimal positive cumulative annual
cash flow throughout the five agricultural crop years covered by the project and
the subsequent six crop years.  ACD's outstanding loan portfolio would reach its
peak level in 1991 (PY7), after which it would be gradually reduced. The ACD's
income statement indicates that it would just break even during the first two
project years; thereafter, however, it would earn a surplus on its agricultural
credit operations, increasing to US$200,000 by PY11.
6.14      CAMARA.  The CAMARA's capital and operating expenditures during the
project investment period would essentially be those connected with the project,



- 41 -
as the CAMARA's supplemental activities with non-project farmers is assumed to
remain insignificant. After PY5 the CAMARA would continue to need technical
assistance for input procurement activities. Beyond this cost and other regular
and operating expenditures, the only additional cost would be the financial
interest to be paid on short-term loans granted by the BCD for the purchase of
imported inputs and equipment. On the revenue side, in. addition to the
Government's subsidy, the CAMARA would receive a certain percentage, initially
fixed at 4Z, of the FOB value of cocoa exports. This percentage would be
reviewed at the interim review stage at the beginning of 1987 (para 3.01). The
objective would be to allow the CAMARA to break even financially during the
project years, when it would build up its technical and management capabilities,
and thereafter, to augment its financial capacity as well (Annex 6-6).
6.15      Under these assumptions, which as for the BCD (para 6.12) reflect the
project objectives of short-term institution building (para 5.01), capital and
operating costs during the project implementation period would be financed by
Government subs:idies (para 4.07). Thereafter, CAMARA's revenues would be
sufficient to ccover its full costs and even provide a slight benefit margin
which would accumulate to approximately US$400,000 in PY11. In order to adjust
the CAMARA's revenues in keeping with its long-term financial needs, the
percentage on the FOB value of exports, which would constitute its sole source
of revenue upon project completion, would be reviewed at the interim review
stage (para 3.01).
6.16      Government.  The Government's cash flow for the five agricultural
campaigns covered by the project and for six subsequent campaigns has been
projected as follows:
(a) inflows include the proceeds from IDA and the co-financiers'
credits, the interest paid by the BCD to the Central Bank, and export
duties on cocoa (8% of the FOB value during the project period,
graduallv increased to 22% in PY8); and
(b) outflows include payment for the project's investment costs,
transfer of funds for agricultural credit to the BCD, support for the
BCD's and the CAMARA's incremental operating costs, and debt servicing
on external financing.
The Government would register a small cumulative inflow (US$102,000) until PY3.
Thereafter, however, the gradual increase in production and the increase in the
tax applied to the FOB value of exported cocoa would combine to quickly generate
a substantially positive net cash flow position for the Government. Annual cash
flows in constant 1984 terms would rise from about US$200,000 in PY3 to a yearly
level of about US$1.8 million in PY9. After allowing the Government to just
break even on project-related foreign exchange transactions in PYO, the project
would result in a small negative cash flow until PY3 (cumultaive outflow of
US$117,000); thereafter, however, the net foreign exchange generated would
increase rapidly from US$270,000 in PY4 to yearlv levels over US$5.0 million by
PY11 (Annexes 6-7 and 6-8).



- 42 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      The principal quantifiable benefits of the project would derive from
the increased production and exportation of cocoa. By PY6, the end of the
project investment period, production on project farms would iucrease to 4,610
tons, representing an increment of about 3,140 tons, or 210X of the production
without the project in that year. By PY12, when all project farmers would be at
full development, total production on project farms would reach about 5,630
tons, representing an increment of 4,160 tons, or 284X of the production without
the project. The FOB value of this incremental production In 1984 constant
terms would reach US$4.6 million in PY6 and US$7.2 million in PY12. Project
interventions to reinforce the CAMARA's efforts in monitoring and controlling
exports would ensure that revenues from exports were repatriated into the
Equato-Guinean banking system; without the project, private traders would keep a
large percentage of these revenues outside the national economy by means of the
under-invoicing practices that currently prevail.
7.02      Employment would be increased as a result of the intensification and
rehabilitation of cocoa production. By PY6, annual hired employment would
increase by 1,200 man-years, and family labor, presently under-employed, would
become fully employed. About 250 man-years of hired labor would be part-tlme
workers on small farms and cooperatives, at a rate of about 0.5 man-year per
farm; the other 950 man-years would be full-time employees. About one-third of
the full-tlme laborers would be hired locally, with the remaining, mainly for
large plantations, recruited from overseas (para 6.04).
7.03      Important non-quantifiable benefits would also result from the reform
and strengthening of the BCD, the CAMARA and the MOA. The project would help
the BCD to extend credit and the CAMARA to import inputs, market exports, and
monitor quality efficiently; it would assist in establishing rational working
relationships among these Institutions. with clearly delineated areas of
responsibility and codified operational guidelines. The project would, in
addition, enhance the MOA's capacity to plan and monitor activities in the cocoa
sub-sector, thereby improving technical support to cocoa producers and
establishing conditions favorable to a long-term increase in cocoa production.
Overall, this improved institutional performance would contribute to
ameliorating the climate for investment and would lead to greater investor
confidence in the country's agricultural sector.
B. Economic Justification
7.04      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  In the economic analysis of the
project, costs include: (a) the costs of investment in infrastructure and
institutions, including physical contingencies; (b) incremental institutional
operating costs, including physical contingencies and the cost of technical
assistance for PYO-PY5, and incremental operating costs thereafter; and (c)
costs of incremental farm inputs, including hired farm labor valued at the
prevailing daily market rate (BK 1,875). All cost estimates are based on



- 43 -
mid-1984 prices, using a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 - BK 1,500. Pro-act
benefits have been estimated as the volume of dry cocoa produced, valued at an
estimated ex-drier price. This economic price has been derived from January
1984 World Bank projections of CIF Europe cocoa prices, after deducting
estimated costs of international transport, insurance, port handling, and
domestic marketing and handling costs, including the CAXARA's overheads (para
6.08). Recognizing the present poor quality of Equatorial Guinea's cocoa, a
quality discount has been applied, set at 32 in PY1, gradually decreasing to
zero in PY4, and becoming a quality premium rising to 3% by PY7. On the basis
of these assumptions, the economic price of dry cocoa at the farmgate would be
US$1.44/kg in PY2 -  production of the project's first year crop would only be
sold in PY2 (1986) --  US$1.26/kg in PY5 and US$1.44/kg in PY12.  The resultant
base estimate of the project ERR is 44%.
7.05      Sensitivity Analysis.  The very high ERR reflects the fact that the
project would essentially rehabilitate the considerable investments that had
been made earlier. Also, the ERR is not very sensitive to variations in costs
or benefits as illustrated in the table below.
Summary of Economic Analysis
ERR (x)
Base Estimate                                                             44
Sensitivity Analysis
Costs                               Benefits
+ 20%                               Unchanged                       39
+ 50%                               Unchanged                        34
Unchanged                           - 20%                            38
Unchanged                           - 50%                           28
Unchanged                           One-year lag                    36
Unchanged                           Two-year lag                    31
Yields:  -  50%                     Farmer Participation:  + 25%   32
Switching Values (at 13.5%) a/
- Costs must increase by 325%
- Benefits must decrease by 762
Net Present Value (at 13.5%) a/
US$17.4 million
a/ Estimated opportunity cost of capital.



- 44 -
C. Environmental Considerations
7.06      The cocoa tree provides excellent soil protection due to its dense
crown and the underlying mulch created by its decaying leaves. Rehabilitation of
the cocoa plantations would enhance this protective function. The project deals
with existing trees only; there would be neither land clearing nor uprooting of
existing cocoa areao. With regard to health, no problem would arise, the
proposed chemicals (copper sulfate and calcium carbonate) for control of black
pod disease having been in use for many years in the cocoa industry.
D. Risks
7.07      The project has no significant technical risks. Agronomic techniques
to be employed are well known by the target population (para 2.05). The risk of
failure in achieving significant Increases in the quality of cocoa, which
depends on introducing improved fermenting and drying techniques, has been
covered by the provision of technical assistance in this area (para 3.15).
Lower than planned participation is not considered a risk since measures would
be taken to improve incentives; there is already an unmet demand for the
production inputs (fertilizer, fungicide, tools), and the project would provide
credit in greater quantity than available at present. Although the shortage of
hired labor is a potentially significant risk, the adoption of the convertible
CPA franc as the national currency, combined with the specific measures being
taken by the Government (paras 1.07 and 6.04), should greatly improve
incentives, thereby minimizing this risk.
7.08      The one major project risk is related to the proposed project being
the largest single investment to date to be undertaken by the Government in the
agricultural sector, and the first financed by IDA. Owing to Equatorial
Guinea's troubled history (para 1.04), neither present institutional
arrangements nor public confidence in authorities is conducive to project
success. :hese factors create a significant overall risk for the project,
particularly to the credit component, which is central to project success.
However, the project has been designed to the extent possible to minimize these
risks and has set limited short-term objectives. The dialogue with the
Government on the major sectoral issues relating to pricing, criteria for
creditworthiness, and reform of credit institutions has made good progress
during project preparation, which has reduced macro-economic and sectoral risks.
The Government has formally confirmed that it understands the seriousness of
this matter and has given assurances that credit administration would meet
specific performance criteria which were agreed upon during negotiations and
included in Schedule 5 of the Credit Agreement (para 5.03). IDA would continue
to disburse only if it judged that the criteria had been met. In summary, the
project faces a significant risk, but given the proposed project high and robust
ERR, and the importance of cocoa production for the country's economy, the risk
is considered worth taking.



- 45 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on the
following major points:
(a) implementation of agreed measures concerning the CAMARA's new
statutes, organizational structure and accounting system (para 2.21);
(b) undertaking of a joint project review no later than March 31.
1987, or earlier, whenever 50X of the IDA credit has been disbursed
(para 3.01);
(c) filling of the five technical assistance posts for the length of
time required (para 3.14);
(d) submission of the anirual work plans of the internationally
recruited staff by September 30 of each year (para 3.14);
(e) opening of a project account before December 31, 1985, and
quarterly contributions to be deposited before the beginning of each
quarter (para 4.05);
(f) provision of the necessary annual budget allocations to the MOA
for the CPMCU, and following project completion. continued adequate
funding of the CPMCU (para 4.07(a));
(g) auditing of the accounts of the BCD, the CAMARA and the CPMCU
(para 4.11);
(h) submission by the ACD, the CAMARA and the CPMCU of quarterly
progress reports, and bv-the CPMCU of: (i) fully detailed annual
progress reports; (ii) by June 30, 1987. a report on the results of
the project interim review; and (iii) within six months after the
credit closing date, a draft project completion report (para 4.11);
(i) appointment in post of suitable national counterpart staff no
later than a year after the arrival of the respective technical
assistance staff (para 5.02);
(j) strict application by BCD of agreed performance criteria,
including precise criteria for creditworthiness, in approving credit
applications (para 5.03);
(k) annual consultation on the rate of interest charged to farmers by
the BCD (para 5.07);
(1) annual consultation on the level of cocoa producer prices (paras
6.04 and 6.07); and



- 46 -
(m) recruitment of overseas labor and provision of satisfactory
evidence by June 30, 1985 (para 6.04).
8.02      The following would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) presentation of the BCD's and the CAMARA's balance sheets
reviewed by independent auditors and approved by the Government
indicating that unrecoverable debts have been eliminated from their
assets (paras 2.19 and 2.21);
(b) formal amendment of the CAMARA's statutes and attendant changes
in the CAMARA's organizational structure and accounting system (para
2.21);
(c) employment at post of the five technical assistance specialists
(para 3.14);
(d) fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of the
co-financiers' contributions (para 4.04);
Ce)  establishment at the BGE of a special account in foreign currency
(para 4.06);
(f) signature of grant agreements between the Government and the BCD,
and the Government and the CAMARA respectively, and establishment of
the 1985 budget appropriation for the CPMCU (para 4.07(a)); and
(g) signature of: (i) a subsidiary loan agreement between the BGE
and the BCD (para 4.07(b)); and (ii) a commercial credit agreement
between the BCD and the CAMARA (para 4.07(b)).
8.03      A special condition of disbursement of funds against the credit
component would be that after September 30, 1987, disbursements would be
dependent on confirmation by the joint interim review that the BCD had met
agreed performance criteria (paras 3.01 and 4.10).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
considered suitable for an IDA Development Credit of US$9.3 million equivalent.
WAPAD
January 1985



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
INCRMENTAL NUtmERS OF FARTIC PANT FARMERS AND COCOA AREAS UNDER T'4E PROJECT
IQbc  (PYIf                                      1986  (PY2)                                     1987  LPY3)                                      98a    Y
Number  of               Xra                     ubrrea s                   Nas                        or Aofa                                   Number  of  log          Areas
Farmers      Intensified  Rehabilttated          Farmers      Intensified  Rehabilitated        _raers        Intensified  Rehabilitated         Farmers      Intensified   Rehabilltated
Form Type                            (- ---------ha) -----------                            ------- (ha)                                            -------   -(h)----
Cooperative saailholdera              30             90               45               150            45U             270              200            600             525             100             300              450
Independent smaliholders               S             55               25                15            IbS             lOS               20            220             220             10              110              260
Hedium estates                                       a s5             18                 3            255              78                3            255             149               2             170              177
Large eatates                        --              --               _                  2            300              80                2            300             200               2             300              300
Total                            36             230              b8               170           1,170             533             225           1,375          1,094             114              880           1,187
.. ... ... .. *-.  a .- s        .-.    . - .     ...         ... .....  . ....                ....                           ....             ...              ...            .....
I9S9  (I'S)                                      1990 _6)                                             Total                                    S National Total
Number  of               Areas                   Number  of                Areas                 Number  at               Areas                 Number  of               AreAs
Farmers      Intensified  Rehabilitated          Farmers      Intensified  Rehahilttatrd         Farmers      IntensiMied   RehAbilitated        Farmers    Intensified  Rehabilitated
Farm Type                             ------(hT--(he)-----------                                        - (h)_-------haT---- ----- -                                      -----------------    ----  -----
Cooperative soallholders              20             60              180                --              --             30             500           1,500           1,500              3n              30               30
Independent esAllholdeis             --              --              180                --              --             60              50             550             850             21               21               33
Medium estates                        --             *               11l                -4 _.                           5               9             765             585             30               14               11
Large estates                        --              --              220                _                __           100               6             900             900              20              20               20
Total                            20              60             698                                               235            565            3,715          3,835              28               20 a/            20 e/
.. .. . .. ... .. .... . . " .- ... .. ..... ...... ....                              ......          .. ... ..
e/  Includlng land under litigation.
WAPAD
December 1984



Annex 3-2
- 48 -
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMNARY PROJECT INDICATORS
-- ---------------------- Project Years -----------------------
Indicators                     1985         1986         1987        1988         1989        1990
(PYI)        (PY2)       (PY3)        (PY4)       (PY5)        (PY6)
Total Number of Participant Farmers
Cooperative saallholders                  30         180          3B0         480          500         500
Independent smallholders                  5           20           40          50           50          50
Medium etatee                              1           4            7           9            9           9
Large estates                            --            2            4           6            6           6
Total                                 36          206          431         545          565         565
Total Cocoa Area Under ProJect (ha)
Intensified                              230       1,400        2,775       3,655        3,715       3,715
Rehabilitated                            88          621        1,715       2,902        3,600       3,835
Total                                 318       2,021       4,490        6,557        7,315       7,550
Average Yield (kg/ha) al                    354         373          401          455         529          611
Total Production (t) a/                     112         755        1,803        2,982       3,872        4,610
Average Farmgate Price
(Current US$/kg)                       1.49         1.54         1.56        1.58         1.60        1.70
ACD's Project Credit Program
(Current '000 US$) b/                   140        1,200       2,570        4.060        4,320       4,610
CAMARA's Credit-Related Import Program
(Current '000 US$) bI                    90          740        1,400       2,090        2,080       2,280
a! Average yields and resultant total production are expected to increase until full development as follows:
G7)          -)         (P79)        110)        (Plt)
Average yield (kg/ha)                       675          714         733          742         746
Total production (t)                      5,098       5,391        5,535        5,605       5,633
b/  Total loan requirements by crop year, inclusive of physical and price contingencies.
WAPAD
December 1984



- 49 -                          Annex 3-3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SHORT-TERX CONSULTANCIES
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988  1989
(PYO)  (PYI)  (PYt)  (PY3)  (PY4) (PY)  Total
A. Technical Assistance                              -n--------------   n years ------------------
1. BCD
- Director ACD                              0.25      1      1      1    0.75    --       4
- Chief CSMU                                  --      1      1      1       1     -       4
2. CAMARA
- Chief input supply (and Advisor
to the Managing Director)               0.25      1      1      1    0.75    --       4
- Chief export and grading                    --      1      1      1     --      --      3
3. KOA
-Chief CPMCU unit                           0.25      1      1      1       1    0.75     5
Total                                  0.75     5      5       5    3.50   0.75    20
B. Short-Term Consultancies                          --------------- Nan months -----------------
1. BCD
Auditor                                      --    -        1      1      1       1      4
2. CAMARA
- Auditor                                     --    --    0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50       2
- ITC Managerial and Accounting Support    1.50       1      1      1      1       1    6.50
3. MOA
- Consultant's team for follow-up
project                                     __    _       __     10    __       __     10
- Cocoa production agronomist                 -     --       I     -       1      -       2
- Cocoa breeding specialist                   --    -       --      I    --       --      1
- Cocoa drying engineer                              --    --                  1 -  -     1
- Unallocated                               0.50      1      1      1      1       1    5.50
Total                                 2.00     2     4.50  15.50   4.50   3.50 32.00
WAPAD
December 1984



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
No. of Trainees/   Duration        Unit Cost      Total Cost
FellowshipB      (Months)       (US$/month)       (US$)
A. Long-Term
1. Agroaomy                                             1             24          1,750          42,000
2. Business Administration                              1             24          2,000         4o,JOO
3. Agrioultural Economics                               1             24           1,750         42,000
Sub-Total Long-Term                              3             72                         132,000
B.  Short-Term
1. Agronomy                                             3              4          2,500          10,000           U
2. Business Polioy, Financial Management,
Accounting and International Trade                 4              8          2,500          20,000
3. Agricultural EBonomics                               1              2          2,500           5,000
Sub-Total Short-Term                             8              14                         35,000
Total                                           11              86                        167,000
WAPAD
December 1984



EQIIATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA RE)BABLITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR
1984        1985       1986      1987       1988       1989                 Foreign
(PTO)       (PY1)     (PY2)      (PY3)      (P4)       (PY5)      Total    Exchanga    Taxes
Institution building
Buildings                                  131.7      63.7          __        __         _                  195.4      119.9       39.1
Vehicles, Equipment                        46.5        32.5      15.9       16.9       16.9                 129.0      105.2        9.5
Technical Assistance                        26.5      189.3      189.3     189.3      162.9          _      757.2      757.2         __
Salaries                                    0.5       42.7       44.9       46.9       46.9       42.3      224.2         -          -
Op. & Haintenance                            2.4       32.6       33.1      33.6       26.3       23.3      153.3       91.9       30.7
Consultancy/Training                                              5.3         5.3       5.3        5.3       21.2       12.7
Sub-total ACD                           207.6      361.1      288.5      292.0      260.3       70.9   1.480.3   1,087.0         79.3
CAJURA
Buildings                                  131.7      63.7                     _          _                 195.4      119.9       39.1
Vehicles, Equipment                        121.6      137.5      20.1        13.7      34.9       21.1      349.0      325.2        9.5
Technical Assistance                        23.5      18B.3     188.3      188.3       70.6         __      658.8      658.8
Salaries                                    0.9        31.5      33.6       34.9       34.9       31.7      167.5                    -
Op. & Maintenance                           0.8       46.9       57.4       57.9       44.3       43.3      250.7      150.4       50.1
Consultancy/Training                       ..          15.9      58.1       55.2       58.2       58.2      248.6      149.2         -
Sub-Total CAHARA                        278.5      453.5      357.5      353.0      242.9      154.3   1,870.0   1,403.5         95.7
21OA
Buildings                                  98.2       45.7         --         -          -          -       143.9       87.7       28.8
Vehicles, Equipnent                        25.9        31.2       15.9        --       15.3         -        88.3       77.7        4.2
Technical Assistance                       26.5      105.7      105.7      105,7      105.7       79.3      528.7      528.7
Salaries                                     -         10.1      12.1       14.3       16.4       15.5       71.4         -          -
Op. & Maintenance                            --        15.9       15.9      15.9       15.8       15.5       79.3       47.6       15.9
Consultancy/Training                        _          10.6      62.0       84.2        6.3        5.2      168.3      168.3         _
Sub-Total MOA                           150.6      219.2      211.6      220.1      159.5      118.8   1,079.9       910.0       48.9
Project Preparstion -/                       200.0                                                     -      200.0      200.0         __
Sub-Total Institution Building               536.7   1,064.1      857.6      865.1      662.7      344.0   4,630.2   3,600.5        226.9
Credit
Long-Term                                       --        8.1       72.5      157.9     279.1      214.7      762.3      457.4       76.2
Medium-Term                                   25.9      290.9      425.7      627.4     462.2      364.9   2,200.0   1,895.0           __
Seasonal                                      57.4     370.1      926.7   1,285.4   1,214.9        841.8   4,696.3   3,575.7        224.1
Sub-total Credit                           83.3      669.1   1,427.9   2,100.7   1,956.2   1.421.4   7,655.6   5,931.1            300.3
Base Costs                                     920.0   1,733.2   2.285.5   2,965.S   2,615.9   1.765.4  12,588.8   9,531.6            527.2
Physical C)ntingencies                        69.9      173.3      228.5     296.6      26t.9      176.5   1,206.7       931.0       15.7
Price Contingsncies                           17.2      140.7      360.5     691.7      820.5      702.8   2.733.4   2,022.9        116.8           3
Sub-total Contingencies                    87.1      314.0      589.0      988.3   1,082.4       879.3   3,940.1   2,953.9        169.5
Total Project Coats                          IaQQ2; !             aauZ         s2 8aIL             2aI:!  1.2QI,2              .      AZIaZ
a/ Covered by the first (1981) PPF advance (U5$200,000); preparation costs financed by the second (1953) PPF advance (US$750,000)
vere included in the corresponding cost items.
VAPAD
December 1984



I-QUATORIAL OllltEA
COCOA REMBABLITATYON PROJECT
PINANCINC PULAN IY CO-DONOR AND YEAR
(in U1$ 000)
1984                   1985                1986                   i987                 1988                     1989
Average */       (PYO)                  (FYI)                (PY2)                  ;f3)                 m4)5)
IDA                                          2             S     At             Y       Amt.                 Amt.           z      Aat.                   t_             2       Amt.         Total
Institution Building
Buildings                                  100      100         400         100        200                                         -          -                     -            -            600
Vehicles Equipment                         100      100         220         100        240         100       70         100        40        100        100        100            30           700
Incremental local staff                    33        --          --         100        100          60       70          25        30        -          -           -            -            200
Upkeep vehicle., equipment                  33       --          --         100        100          60       80          IS        20         -         -                        -             200
Consultancy Scholarship                    100       --          --          100        30         100      160         100       200        100        100         100          110          600
Technical Aesistance                       60       100          90          60        340          60      350          60       380.        60        280          60           60         1,500
Project Preparation                        100      100         200                     -- _                 - _                   -                                -            -            200
Sub-total                                                   910                  1,010                 730                   670                   480                      200         4,000
Credit in kind                                84       100          90          84       620           84   1,120          84    1.430          84        970          84          670         4.900
Credit in  essh                                9       --          --           12         10          12      60          12       130         12        200          --           -            400
Sub-total                                                    90                    630                1,180                1,560                 1.170                      670         5.300
Total IDP                                                                              IL' W  I             1.910                 2,230                 1.650                      870         9,300
BADEA
Credit in cash                              61        --          --          a8         40          78      350          68       770         58        930          53          710         2.800
EEC
Credit in kind                               16       --          --           16       120           16     220          16       260         16        Ig0          16          120           900
OPEC
Tecinical Assistance                         40       --          --          40        240          40      250          40       270         40        200          40           40         1.000
rovernment
Increment local staff                       67         -                                  -          4n       40          75        90        100        130        100           140          400
Upkeep vehicles, equipaent                   67       --          --          --         --          40       50          a5       110        100        120         100          120           400
Suib-total                                                                                               90                  200                   250                      260            0OO
Credit in cash                                30       --          --          --         --           10      50          20       2Z0         30        490          47          640         1.400
Total Government                                        --         --          --                             140                   420                   740                      900         2.200
Total Project                                                   1a29°                  3,oZ2                                      aaZ72                                         3A640
a/ Except for PPF financed by IDA IOOT.
WAPAD
December 1984



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA FINANCING BY COMPONENT AND AGENCY
(US$ '000)
Initial
Total      Deposit in        Normal
BCD       CAMARA           MOA            Total             ;'PF      Special Acct.    Disburs.
By Project Component
Institution Building
Buildings                           220         220              160            600              200              30             370
Vehicles, Equipment                 160         430              110             700             220              --             480
Technical Assistance                580         510             410            1,500              50              --           1,450
Salaries                            100          70              30             200              --               20             150
Maintenance                           70        100               30             200              --              20             180
Consultancy Training                 30         340             230             600              200              20             380
ProJcet Preparation, 1981                                                                                                        -- 22 200  200  200-
Sub-Total                         1,160       1,670           1,170           4,000             870               90           3,040
Credit to Farmers                          5,300          --                           5,300              80               10          5,210
Total                                      61460      9t670            i &70           2&300             250             100           8A250
WAPAD
December 1984
t,I



EQUATORIAL iUINEA
CeCeO RENAPILITATION FFJECT
ESTIMATED DIIURSEREHT FROFILE
ilh MSA KILLION)
ESTI4ATED     PROJECT   RESION-hIDE
DISBUiRSNT  FROMFIE Ai   PROFILE
Er 0ARTlE  ECURULAIIVE  CjP.ULIV9E
1984-35      III
IV     1.7          1.7 bt      0.9 hi
1935-lb        I      0.          2.0
II     0.6         2.6
III     0.1         Li5          1.
IV      -                       1,9
19et-87        I     0.5          3.4          1.E         10
11     1.0         4.4
111     0.4         4.5          1.9          ._                                                         .S1
IV                 4.5
1997-al        1     0.3          5.4          2.4                                             \         /3
It     1.1         4.76
III  O.S                   3. 3 -                                         &.$v..u
IV     0.1          7.b                      e                                               o'  
I 980-69       I     #0.4         7.4          4.1                             9 ji?        /           );Cs9   7
II     0.3         1.2
III     0.3         3.5          4.9                   ~ad                          1 ~ ~ -
IV      -          3.5                  n    4                                                                                                4     1  i3 O  ; 
190t-90        I     0.2          9.7          5.7         3
i      0.,          9.3                                   F
1HI                              t.5         2 -    4                     >K.
IV
11%9-il    1                                   7.2     |        ,*
|11                              ,                  ,,,,,,0,r_
1i                              7.2
FY885   a6 a             E'7         8.         as9         94          91          92
IW1-92         1                               6.4                                                 FISCAL  YEAR
111                              9.3
..,........... ................. ................................................. 
a/ Assuming credit effectiveness in April 1985.
bi Taking into account the reimbursement, at effectiveness, of the two project preparation advances
tatallLng USS950,000.
Dcccrbcr 1984



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
DISBURSEENT/REPAYKENT CYCLE FOR CREDIT-RELATED IMPORT PROCUREMENT a/
Accounting Entries b/
Project       Month                Description of Operations                          Central Bank                             Farmer
Year            _                                                          Debit        Credit      Balance       Debit      Credit       Balance
--------------------------- USS equivalent ----- -----__________
PYI        Kay         ICB No. I is launched
July       Bid opening and award of contract
Sept.      Shipment of goods
Dec.       Payment to supplier due                         13,700 '                   (13,700)
Dec.       Direct payment by IDA (procedure No. 3)                        13,700         -
PY2         Jan        Reception of goods by the CANARA
March      ACD loan No. 1 to farmer                                                                             13,700        13,700
March      Distribution of inputs by the CAIUARA
May         ICB No. 2 is launched
July        Bid opening and award of contract
Sept.      Shipment of goods
Dec.       Payment to supplier due                         27,800 *                   (27,800)                                            ,
Dec.       Direct payment by IDA (Procedure No. 3)                        27,800 '       -
PY3        Jan         Reception of goods by the CAMARA
March      ACD loan No. 2 to farmer                                                                             Z7,800        31,500
March      Distribution of inputs by the CAIARA
lay         ICB No. 3 Is launched
June       Repayment of loan No. 1 by farmer                                13,700      13,700        13,700                  Z7,800
July        Bid opening and award of contract
Sept.      Shipment of goods
Dec.       PayAent to aupplies due                         35,800                     (22,100)
Dec.       Direct payment by IDA (procedure No. 3)
a/  Farmer credit needs--at US$13,700, Z7,800 and 35,800 for PY2, PY3 and PY4 respectively--are hypothetical and
were chosen purely for illustrative purposes.
f  Intermediate accounting entries for the BCD and the CAMARA do not appear in the Table as they alwaye balance out.
Legends      an asterisk denotes foreign currency amounts
E Disbursement/repayment cycle of 18 months.
WAPAD
December 1984



- 56 -                                    Ainex 5-1
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHAIUTAMON PROJECT
Organtztlonal Structure of the Credit and Development Bank (BCD)
|   80d d E
Genemi            _ _ _             G    I _m_now
I  I       ~~~~~~~~DxtGenuo  Manoge
I ~~_                                   I  _
Manogk,Deotr
OPV_NA           I             covwco             AC&Ml                                   g%u
I~~~~~~~~ M¢llo oh
(1ntetwetWo) 
ffG~~~AL~
~~~~~~~~~Uk                                  E3M,I                                Ev1CW =v1w11
Noe Then o_sts(-)denoteproect tehnlcl olstance dtcf
Wld dBo*-26211
WAPAD
December 1984



57 -                              Annex 5-2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
CAMARAs Proposed Oronlzotlonol Stiuu
I~ ~~                              G  
I~~  .L~                                    I
_-co=oI3
--Cam       a                              PonnI
Gonwd                                     "wd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wol   ar-56
D.aerI 1984
VAw#cWTASPro rLoaWe
December 1984



- 58 -                       Annex 5-3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
OrganI onal Shncture of he
MlnsWy of Agulture and Rural Dopmsnt
Cocoa P~bbn I
Monitodn&Cron?IoILk,. . _
I   wCoo&oa  d   Il
(CPMCU)     I
SoVGwd
Evaluascon
&
MonitorIng
Note: Th Castewlss () dfonte pIed techUcd IonW stI
H"Pd Biak-2=
WAPAD
December 1984



- 59 -                              Aane  5-4
KQUATOiIAL 0U1Ill3
COCOA REU ILI?TAIOU PUDOJOT
MAJOR ILOgNST  OF THE IPPLIOlTJION 9CHEDULE
:ep1eaentation Item                                                      Deadi tin
.  Prnaur_nent of Goods and Services
ToohnIcal Annintanoe
Contract with Landell Mills sied                                       Saptembt 30. 19l
Head of CPNCU/Chi.f of project at pont                               umay 11. 9115
Head of ACD at poat                                                   PAv Si. 1965
Head of Input 3upply 3ervio. at pont                                  HY 15. 1915
Hiead of CU3U at post                                                 Key 31. 19B5
liled of Marketing 4 Ina-ption/Gre4ing Services at post              Kay 31. l9h5
Conetruotion or HNuming
Contraet awarde4                                                       Decemr 19d5
Noualnig coupls flomplote4                                             may 195
Procuremont of Vehionle
Contract lgned                                                         December 1985
Crwdtt-Ula*ted Prorwuront (Yars Input- and Equuipont)
LCII launched                                                          Lnually. pay 31
Contract awerded                                                       Annually. July Sl
P Intitution-16W11d1nd
[et)
New holance-lhmeet approved                                            Tebruary. 1195
CNIIU eotabltvhd                                                      May 31. 1985
Gulnean Deputy-Hlund of ACD at poet                                    Hav 31. 1165
Guinean Deputy-Head of C1IWU ot poot                                   May 31. 191S
Organizational Structure Rwl-owed by ITC                               Ju_. 30. 1904
Accounts Reviewed by consultants                                       February. 1985
Inspectino and Grading Service e.tablIhed                              llnv 11. aus
law atatutVU approved                                                  January 31 19t5
on" 3. lalna. ehet at PYrUrid                                          FPbruary. 1163
Guinesh Chier Accountant at post                                       Key It I1N
Guinea-n Gneral Manaer (lnat*rvntor`) at poot                         Uctlabor 3  019
Juinwan Deputy Chlif or Input Supply Dorvice at post                   "my 31. 1165
Guinean Dapu%t  Chlief of Epaprt HArReting 3e0 at post                 Nay 31. :S5
Ouinean Deputy Chlef or Inapectinn a Grading roe  at pont              "ay ii. 11"
CICU le otabliehed                                                    October 30. 164
C.  Planning ond Roportln%  R!Wirem"nto
Quarterly prongrv. rwport (ACD)                                        (Anmuwlly April 30.
Quarterly prograse  report (CANIIAA)                                   (July 31. October 31
Quarterly programs report (C5U)                                        (an  JaUatry '31
Astual progream rvport (CShU)                                          hAf4al y. Jaat.ary 31
Annual prorrees report (CPIICII. whole project)                        Annually. JaOmary 31
Audit report "ACIP)                                                    Annually Deoember 31.  195
Audit report CCAlARA)
Audit report I CINt)
Work j'la.. of internationally roeruited staff due                     Annually. January 31
:nterlm review ewetntn                                                 Rarch ,t. 1987
!nterim r?a%iw rwport                                                  June 30. 1957
PIC                                                                    December 31. 1990
D.  Appronrrltion and 3t buyrsent of t'und
Project accoun  opened o t oCE                                         D_bvr 11, Ias
Special account opened at DUE                                          January 31. 1985
Grant agrmeent :overament-BCD signed                                   January 3 1  115
Grat mareement Goverunet-CAJIUAA aigned                                January 31.  198
1915 ludget appropriation CPlCU e*tablioha4                            January 31t  19S5
3ubDidlAry loan agreement aGE-lCD sigld                                January 31  191$
Co_-rcial financing agrement  CDZ-CAMAEA migned                        January 31. 198$
CPIfIU  ubaquent budget app.apriation approved                         Annually. Norvmber 30
^overnaent counterpart runds due                                       t nnually. March 31. June 30
(September 30. * December 39
E.  Genral -Momuree
Adequate lncentive syste  establimbd                                   January 31* 1995
Dollvry procedure for working pwrtta r-vined                          J Me 30. 1985
ftragate cocoa price, mwt                                              Annually. Janamry 31
lnt.re.t ret. for  ramr.' loans set                                    Ann1lly. Jawuary 31
UAPAD
Dec_r 1964



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COCOA PRODUCTION BY FARM TYPE
Without                    With Project    /a
ProJect                 (Full Development)                      Incremental Production
% of
Cocoa Area                             Situation        Across
Intensified  Rehabilitated   Total   Volume   Without Project  Farm Types
---------------------------- (tons) ------------------------ ()
Cooperative Smallholders          525             900            900      1,800       1,275            243            31
Independent SmallholderE          193             330            510        840         647            335            15
Medium Estates                    344             727            556      1,283         939            273            23
Large Estates                     405             855            855      1,710       1,305            322            31
Total                       1,467          2,812          2,821       5,633       4,166            284            100    o
a/ FY12 and on.
WAPAD
December 1984
I-as



-61 -                                    AWAeZ 6-2
WjW- i or 4
EQUATORIAL UWIUEA
COCOA REIMLI!ATION POMJCT
TIPICL mEEMRISe UDOEuS S/
With Prolect
A. Cooperative Smallholderm       without             1°R5        eRs         qR7                                           uPn_
Project b/                   nM4(PRA                               l )           0
(Pl Develouzent)
£re cultivated (ha)                3              4.5           6           6           6          6           6           6           6            6
T.l1  (kg/ha) i                  350              316         400         500         560         588         593         597        Soo          600
Production Ct) 1                  1.1             t.4         2.4         3.0         3.4         3.5         3.6         3.6        3.6          3.6
________  _ _Constant 1984 US1 -
Tangate price (Us/kg)           1.07             1.13        1.11        1.09        1.07        1.04        1.04        1.04       1.04         134
"nLov
Sales Revenu.                   1,120           t,600       2.670       3.270       3.600       3.670       3.700       3.730      3.740        3.740
Loan Proceeds
Sedim-term                   10               80          -           -           S0         --          -           S0          --           30
Seasoml                     460              830       1.250       1,50        1,420       1 370       1.420       1.370      1,42         1.400
Sob-Total               470              910       1,23        1.330       1.500       1.370       1.420       1.450      1,420        1.430
Total Inflow                  -1,590            2.510       3.950       4,600       5.1OD      5.040       5.120        5.180      5,160        5.170
OUTFPLOW
Production Coat.
EuipeL ft                         10               80           -           -          90         -           -           8           -            30
Recurrent coat  (import.) /      310              670         820         820         91o        860         910         860         910          890
Recurrent costs (local)          t50              I60         460         510         510         510        510         510         510          510
Sub-Total                   470              910       1.N50       1,330       15300       I3io        1.420      1,450       1,4I0        1,430
Debt Service i/
Pediu_-ters                  10               --          10          30          30          30         30          30          30           40
Seasona                     530              950       1.470       1 550       1 630       1 58        1630        1590       1630         1 600
Sub-fotal               540              950       1.480       1,.58      tni6         t1.10       T3g        It 1,0 .0   T NW,64
Total Outflo                    1,010           1,860       2.760       2,910       3.160       2.980      3.000       3.060       3,090        3.070
IIET CASH lOIW                       580              650       1.190       1.690       1.940      2,060       2,040       2.120       2,090        2,100
.........   .   ..........  ...... ..... .... ...... .......... ... _ .. .. .... ....... . . ......
(lee  family labor)        (310)            (500)       (500)       (500)      (500)       (500)       (500)       (50D)       (500)        (500)
liat ReveUe                          270              150         690       1.190       1.440      1.560       1.540       1,620       1.500        1.60o
a  The budt is for a typical cooperative  allbolder enrolling in the project in PY1.
Inflow  and outflowa for the without project situation are coapted n- averag  over the period Pll to PM8.
4  The vwth project aetuacion includa inteni fid nd rhabilitated areas.
i?  For the with project situation the yield in a weigted avere of the yields on intesaified ad  rehabilitated area.
Mazims yield. are attaind eight yars after enrolment in the project.
e/ Te anticipated production build-up fur the whole cooperative smlaholder category accountiag for the
gradual phasing-in of farmer in that category is an follow:
(P1I)      (P12)       (P)        (114)       (P15)       (PT6)       CPM73      (PF1)       tPf9)      (110)       (ut  )      (P12)
(NuLl Developaent)
Ton.
42.6      295.3       734.4    1,167.6      1,478.3     1.656.0     1.742.0    I.7.0        1.779.0    1,798.0    1.900.0    1.800.0
ft Hand eprayerm.
i    Recurrent coat. (isports) include tools (machetes, files, beots. secks and drao) asd seaonaal lnputO (Rordeeux mixtre.
fungicide. and fertilizer).
hi Recurrent costs (local) include labor and drying costs.
Loan iAtereat ad  repayment of principal.
WAPA
Dcsber 19814



-62-                                                       Ann  6-2
EIIATORTAL 0!IRU
COCOA hIRABILUTATION PROJWCT
TTICAL EIISSRP1BZ EMSS
With Projlct
S. Independent Smallbolders g    Without         195          1956 S      17           19* 
Projsct           D Will    fF11        e                                              (1
£r-scultivated (ha)g            i I            i6          22          28           28         as          28         28          28          25
Tield (kgh) d/                 350            319         358         432          527        598         593         597        600         600
Produetion Wt)!/               3.S            5.1         7.9        12.1         14.8        16.5         16.6        16.7       16.8        16.8
Constant 1984 m
FPregate price (US3/Lg)      1.065           1.13        1.11        1.09         1.07        1.04       1.04       1.04        1.04         1.04
inrwov
Sales Revenues               4,100          5.760       8,740       13.190      15.790      17.130     17,Z70      17.380     17.470       17.470
lan Proceeds
Medium-term                     20            300         150          80           -         300         150         80          -           130
Sesonml                      2,340          4.170       5.840       7,840        8,220      8,090       8.220      8.090       8.220       S1.60
Sub-Total               2.360          4.470       5,990       7,920        8,220       S,390      8,370      8.170       8,220        8.290
Total Inflow                 6,460         10,230      14.730       21,110      24.010      25.520     25,640      25.550     25.690      25.760
OUTFLWV
Production Coets
Equipment fi                    40           300          150          80          --         300         150         80         --          130
Recurrent coats (Imports) g/  1150          2.350       2.990       3,820        4,060      3.930       4.060      3.930       4.060       4,000
Recurrent costs (local)      1,190          1.820       2.850       4,020        4.160      4.160       4.160      4.160       4.160       4.160
kb-Total                2.390          4.470       5.990       7,920        8,220      8,390       8,370      8,170       8.220       8,290
Debt Service I/
.qui,ment                  40            --           40          140         170        240          40         140        17O         150
Seasonal                2.690          4.790       6 140       8,250        8.60                   8 610      8            .460 8,60
Sab-Total            2,730         4,790       6,0          0,390       8.7eo       8.700      8,650       8,60D      8.780       VW
Total Outflow                5,110          9,260      12.170       16,310      17.000      17.090     17,020      16,770     17.000      16.970
lE  CASM rLOW                    1.350           970        2.560       4,800       7,010       8.430      8,620       8.780       8.690       8.790
(loes fasilY labor)     (500)          (500)       (500)        (500)       (500)       (500)      (500)       (500)       (50)        (500)
Set Rbeenne                    850           470        2.060       4.300        6.510      7,930       8.120      8,290       8,190       8.290
*I The budget is for e tpical independent seaiboldar enrolling in the project in PT1.
I  flowa and outflows for the without sitution are computed an averages over the period Ptl to p98.
*i The witb project ctuation inclues both intensified and rabilitated areas.
T/ ror the with project situation the yield in a weighted average of the yields an intensified and rebabilitated areas.
Mszisus yields are att ined eight years after enrollmnt In the project.
eThe anticipated production build-up for the whole independent  asllbolder category accounting for the
gradual phaing-in of fermers in that category li an follows:
(Pu1)      (PY2)      (P)         (PT4)      (P15)       06 )        erro) s)               /P9       (P11)      (PY1l)      (P112)
(nill Devlop_st)
--       T--  Son  -____ _on
25.5      115.8      2S0.1       482.2      622.2       744.4      808.9       831.5      836.4       839.2      839.8       840.0
Mtand sprayers.
i  Recurrent costs (isports) include tools (aebetee, files, boots, sacks snd drua) end seasonal inputs (Bordeaux mixture.
fungicides and fertilizer).
h/ Becurret coats (local) include labor and drying costs.
1/ Loan interest end repaysent of principal.
WUAD
Dnecmber 198.



- 63 -
NqU0AtAL COrIU                                             Ahums. 6-2
COCOA RKIIAILIYATIOU PROJEy                                       raqe 3 of 4
TYPICAL UTUflXSU MOURnS
With Project
C. Nsdius.Sizs Estates a/           I thuet                                  1967        1988       1989        1990        1991      1992
ProJect                                                                                            MY~(5 ( ~ (I~ ~ J ( ll i
(N11 Dsvlotl
Area cultivated (ha)             85            103          t27       ISO           150   t     50        150         IS0         150         150
rleld (kWha) di                 450            430          470        560          690        830        890         930         950         950
Production (t)7g                 38.2           44.3         59.7       84.0        103.5      124.5       133.5      139.5       142.5       142.5
Constant 1984 US dollars -  -
Fare Gote Price (US3/kg)      1.065           1.18         1.16        1.14        1.12        1.08        1.08       1.O8        1.08        1.08
Sales evenues                40.730         52.260       69.240      95.760     115.920     134,460    144.18C      150.660     153.900    153.900
Loan Proceed.
Long-tor                                7.610       12.690      17,760        -           --          ---                    --         3.10
Medius-Tern              3.260         20.630         --        43.0D0        --         4.630       --        20.630        -         13.190
Seasonal                 z2T050        42 930       52,960      72260       77,020      75,820      77 000     78 50D      79,650      79,650
Sub-Tatsl               I0 3710        T1f          SS.        1 3,020      n7,o2E      80,450        1        99          79.60
Total Innev                  71.040        123.430      134.890    22s,780      192,940     214.910    22z1.to     249.790    233.550      250.550
OUTFLOW
Production Costs
Civil worko f/               -          7.610       12.690      17.760        -           -           -          --          --         3.810
qutpsant  f              3.260         20.630         -         43.000       -           4,630       -         20.630        -         13.190
Recurent coats h/       271,50         42.930       52.960      72.260     77,020      75.820      77 000      78 500      79,650      79.650
tb-Total             30.310         71 .170      65.650     133,020     77.020       80,450     77.000      99g130      79.650      96WAi
Debt Service 1/
Longter                   -              -           1.140       3.040       5.700       5.700       6.050      6.400       5.640       4.380
-edinu-term              4.600           --          3.090       3.090      16,420      20.020      20.500     20.750      18,100      15.170
Seasonal                31,110         49.330       60.aso      83,100      88.570      87,190     89,000      90.000      91,600      91.6CO
3ob-Total            35.710         49.330       65.120     89.230      110.690     112,910     115,550     117.150    115.340     111,150
Total Outnow                 66.020        120,5C0      130.770     222.250     187,710     193.360     192.550    216,200     194.990     207.800
N CAS FLOW                        5.020          2.930        4.120      6.530       5,230      21.550      29.630      33.510      38.560      42.750
=_...         .....       .___._..    ......_    .......    .. _ __._____...  __. ......  ...____...  ......,  ......
a/ The budget is for a typicel medium etate joining the proJect in P1Y.
/  Innnows and outflows for the without project situation are computed - av*rages over the period Pt1 to Pr8.
/  The With project situation includes boeb IntensiUIed  od rebhbilitated aree
Ft For the with project situation the yield is a welgted average of the yielda on intensified and rehabilitated cres.
c#'The anticipated production build-up for the whole medium setate category accounting for the grsdual phasing-in of farsers
ln 'hat category is - follows:
(P11)      CP2)       (03)         (114)      (P15)       016)        Om7)       CP18)        OM9)       PW10)      0PY11)      (P12)
(Pull Develoymest)
44.3       192.6      395.9       623.2       806.4       985.5    I.121.5      1,210.5     1.255.5     t.276.5    1,21.6     1,282.5
f/  Civil-aorks include dryers, housing snd warehouses.
Equipmnt includes sprayers, tractors 45NP. trailers 3t. trucks 4t 4tD vehicles and chain saws.
h/ Recurrent osts include tools (schetea, file. boots. scks and dr=a)          n seasal inputs (Bordeaux  ixture.
fungicidea and rertiliner). labor (stilled and unskilled). *ainteL¶nc. (dryers, houses, warbouses.
velLicelo  nd equipuenSt)  fuel for vehicles end drying cost.
it Lon  interest sad repayment of principal.
anAD
Deceber 1984



ROUAWOSIAL WDUZhlA                                            Sfl^     & W
COCOA&IAZLTTO  nRO.13
With Prolect*
D.L41=  ft t tf#                   wtitBot           li           et         e            te        It           w1Q2                    43        19ff 
Pojet                                                                                              LOW  (Fall)G G)05) Q
Area cultivated (ha) N           150             190         250         300         30         30          300         30         300          300
iel (ku/ha) 4                    450             430         460         550        675         815         885         925        950          950
Produotion  (t) g               67.5            81.7       115.0       165.0       202.5      244.5       265.5       217.5     235.0         35.0
Constant 1984 US$ --        _-
tregt  price (S5/kg)            1.14             1.21       1.20        1.17        1.12       1.12        1.32        1.12        1.12        1.12
xmr
Sales Revenues                76.950          98.857     138,0       193.050     226.800     273.840    297,360    310,800      319.2W      319.200
oam Proceeds
Lontrm                       --           16.500       ,000      29.200          -       TACo           --          --         --        8.630
Nedt,m-t.re/equipeet S§   7.560          80.400       4.900      21,000         -         8,400         _       80,400       4.900      25.260
ldledt_ro/r eurrt            -            3.D0      39O70D      46,700      45,000                                 -           -           -
S3eeoal                 50,440          68 480      82,220     101.720     108.140     125ts.     13,W        148,000    153.000      2Th90.
Sab-Tatel            St W0           19         159,258.000  18 9620    15.140      141.000    135.0       228.400     157.900     1Mie
Total Inflow                 134.950         294,257     297.237    391,670    379.940      414.840    435.360    539.2)    477.100        506.090
Productio Costs
Civil work V                 -            16.5D0     33.000      29.200          -       7.600          -           -          --        8.630
quipent                   7.850          80.400       4.900      21,000         -        8,400          -        o0400       4.900      25.260
Recurrnt coete/ETy           -            30,000     39.700      46.700      45.000         -           --          --         --           --
recrret ooete/
Seasonal it            50,440          68,480      82.220     101.720     108,140     125OD      130.000    148S000    153WOD       153 OOD
Sub-Tot              58.290          1'95.a     159.820    1gB,620      153.140     141.000    130,000    228,400    157.900
Debt Service I/
Long-ter                                              2.470       7.420      11,800      11,800     12.300      13,000      t3.950      10.79D
Redlue-tn/dequip.ent    10.090               --      12,060      32.890      34,250     36.300      34.000      32.000     30.000       31.570
Nedium-termlreocrrent        -                -       4.500      17.960      26.740      31,t20     28.000      25.000      a8.o0           -
--sonl                   58.ss0          78a750      94.550    f1698D       12f4       fls93       165.        175000    1800           82,960
s.140                      113.5,0 278.750  1 0,                          2)9.3       245.000    241.950      2,20552
total Outf0s                 126.930         274M1A0    273,400    373.870       350.290    374,200     317.300    473.400    399gs50       412210
am? CAsN-FlOW                      8.020          20,1I7      24.420      17.800     29.650      40.640      58,060      65.9w      77,250       93.8so
g    e budget in for a tpical lgr, estate joinin  the project in 112.
/ Inlow and outflows for the without project situation are computed   o avergeav onr the period P12-Pig.
s! with uroject eitnstlen Inclues both Innified and rehehilItated area.
Al hr the ueth project situation the yield is a weigted average of the Yieldse a    n ntenified end rehebiUtated
ers. Nazismo Yields are etteined eight years after enrollin  in the project.
he anticipated production build-np for the whole Large estate category aosatin  for the
grdual phasing-in of farser in that category is a follows:
Tt)    cPm2)         CM)        0.74)       5s         916)        CPI7)       Q18)        a"13       PS10       PI11        PY12
(Pull D3weloaent)
_ _ _ _   _    _                                       -   T m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _  - - - --s
-       174.8      393.4      723.4       965.0      1 224.0   1,425.0    1,572.0      1,650.0    1.692.0    1.710.0    1,710.0
Ions for purchse of -capitalised' recurrent coeot (recurrent cots T T see footnote i).
wi C-ilworks includo dryers. boi              r4ad warehouss.4
# Mp_ct Irncludes sprsyers. tractors 45NP. tralen  t       k  4t. 41   el           hin 
Recurret costs include tools (machetes, nles boots, acka end drnss)* seasonal inputs (lordeau  mixture.
fungicids and fertlliser). labor (ekifled and unskilled). maintesance (dryers. houses. warehouse.
voele and eqilpmt). fuel for vehicles and drying coets   Recurret costs/C are recurrert coots
hich aroe apitlixed durnog the first four yeers to avold a ngative aet casb-flow. Thee coat
incledo 50% of the nct of rhbuica end labor.
/La  interet ean repavyyot of principel.
RAPS
Decoer 1934



EQUATORIAL  GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Typical Cocoa Enterprise Budgets a/
Without and With PXoiect  (Salected YAnr  an   Full Development)
Without                                                            WLth Prolect
Project bI         FYI c/        n2             P13           FYI4          15           PY16        PY7         PY8          PY12
(Full Development)
___________.___________________-----  Constant 1984 US   --------
A. Cash-Flow Per Farm
Cooperative smallholders d/         270             150           690          1,190         1,440         1,560         1,540       1,620       1,580        1,600
Indepondent Smallholderm d/        850              470         2,060         4,300         6,510         7,930         8,120       8,280       6,190        6,290
Medium size estates               5,020           2,930         4,120         6,530          5,230        21,550        28,630      33,510     3B,560        42,750
LarAe eastatas of                8,020               --        20,107        24,420        17,800        29,650         40,640      58,060     65,800       93.880
5.  Cash-Flov rer Hectare
Cooperative smallholders d/          90              33            115           198           240           260           257         270         263          267
Independent smaliholders A/          77              29            94           154           232           283            287         295        292           296
Medium-size estates                  59              28            32             44            35           144           191         223         257          285
Large estates e/                     53              --           106             98            59            99           135         194         219          313
C.  Cash-Flow per Day of Family Labor
Cooperative smallholders            2.3             1.6           3.0           4.2           4.9            5.1           5.1         5.3         5.2          5.2        S
Independent smallholders            3.4             2.4           6.4          12.0          17.5           21.1          21.6       22.0        21.7          22.0
a/ For typical project participants enrolling In the project in PYI, except for large estates which enroll only in PY2.
b/ Average PYI-PYLO,
c/ Cash-flows per farm, for all farm types, are lover in PYI than for the vithout project situation as average yields decrease due
to the rehabilitation of previously abandoned plantations whose yield remains below average the first year, and for smallholders.
because of the increase In their family labor Input which Is not covered by credit.
if Valuing family labor at the prevailing market wage rate.
e/  Fnr the large estates the cash-flow continues to improve substantially after attalhing maximum yields In PY9, an medium-term
credit extended during the project period to finance capitalized recurrent costs are repaid, thereby gradually decreasing the
debt service. Prior to attaining their maximum in PY12, the cash-flows for that category of farmers evolve as followst
PY9          PYI0          PYII
---- Constant 1984 US$ -----
Cash Flow per Farm         77,250       d2,300        87,200
Cash Flow per Hectare         258          274           291
0'



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACD'S INCREHZNTAL CASH FLOW (l984-1995)
(In Constant 1984 US$'000)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   '989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995               TOTAL
PYO    PYI    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9   PY10   PY11
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Income
Government Subsidy                           208    361    288    292    260         71                      -                      --       1,480
Interest Received/CAHARA                     --        2     13      22      31      30      30     31      32      33      31      30         285
--  --     ~19    151    353    576    691    741    738    720    698    663              5 350
Sub-Total Operating Income              208    363    320    465    644    677    721    772    770    753    729    693                7,115
Central Bank, Line of Credit                 100    700  1,450  1,850  1,400    750    250                                                   6,500
Farmers' Reimburaement/Principe               --     -       92    600  1,396  2,155  2,605  2,948  3,140  3,293  3,285  3,304              22,818
TOTAL SOURCES                                308  1,063  1,862  2,915  3,440  3,582  3,576  3,720  3,910  4,046  4,014  3,997               36,433
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Operating Costs
Capital Costs                                179      96      16      17     17      --      17      17     --      17      17      --         393
Running Costa                                 29    265    272    275    243    165    113    113    113    113    113    113                1,927
Life Insurance                                --       1      10     20      29      30      30      30     31      32      31      31         275
Financial Charges                             --      10     74    175    288    350    377    372    347    320    284    245               2.842
Sub-Total Operating Coat.               208    372    372    487    577    545    537    532    491    482    445    389                5,437
Loans To Farmers/In Kind                      83    625  1,109  1,557  1,479  1,519  1,567  1,589  1,674  1,540  1,520  1,421               15,683
Loans To Farmers/In Cash                      --      45    371    882  1,385  1,500  1,466  1,427  1,494  1,540  1,554  1,564              13,228
Reimbursement To Central Bank                 -              --      --      --      --     --    200    250    450    500    600            2,000
Total Application                            291  1,042  1,852  2,926  3,441  3,564  3,570  3,748  3,909  4,012  4,019  3,974               36,348
ANNUAL CASH FLOW                                  17      21      10    (11)    (1)    18          6    (28)      1      34      (5)    23
NET CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW                                                   j               ,     U 1                                     U                    U
WAPAD
Dcesuber 1984



EQUATORIAL CI'INEA
COCOA RENABILITATION PROJECT
AWSD5 TNCREKHF.TAL INCOME STATFHENT AND BALANCE OF ACCOIINTS (1984-1995)
(In Constant 19814 USS'Ot0)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
(nYO)  (PY1)  (PY2)  (PY3)  (PY4) (PYS)  (PY6)  (PY7)  (PY8)  (PY9) (PYIO)  (PYII)    TOTAL
A.  INCONE STATEHENT
Earnings
Operating Subsidies                      208    361    288    292    260    71                                                          1.480
Tntereet/CAHAPA                            2      13      22      31      30    30      31      32      33      31     30       30        315
Interaet/Farmers                                  19    151    353    576   691    761    738    720    698    663             609      5 959
Total Earnings                           210    393    461    676    866   792    772    770    753    729    693              639      7,754
Costs
Capital Costs                            179      96      16      17      17            17      17      -       17      17      -          393
Operating Costs
Technical Assistance                  26    189    189    189    163    94          40     40      40      40      40       40      1.090
Local Staff                            1      43      45     47      47    42       40      40     40      40      40       40        465
Mainteance                             2      33      33      34     28    24       28      28      28     28      28       28        322
Audit                                 --      --       5       5       5     5       5       5       5      5       5        5         50
Sub-Total Operating Costs             29    265    272    275    243   165    113    113    113    113    113              113      1.927
Life rnsurance                            --        I     10      20      29    30      30      30      31      32      31      31         275   o
Financial Charges                          2      24    103    217    316   365    352    368    342    311    274             233      2,932
Bad Debts                                 --       2      21      40      59    60      58      59      62      64      63      62        550
Total Coats                              210    388    422    564    664   620    600    587    548    537    498              439      6.077
NET PROFIT                                     --       5      39    112    202   172    172    183    205    192    195            200      1,677
B.  BALANCE OF ACCOUNTS
Asseta
Loan Portfolio/Farmers                    --    126  1,009  2,360  3,847 4,611  4,933  4,920  4,801  4,658  4.404   4,121
Loan Portfolio/CAMARA                     83    625  1,109  1,557  1,479 1,519  1,567  1,589  1,674  1,540  1,520   1,421
Parners'Tnterest Receivable               --      19    151    353    576   691    741    738    720    698    663             609
C(ph                                      17      38      48      37      36    54      60      32      33      67      62       85
2     13      22      31      30    30      31      32      33      31      30       31               R
Total Assets                             102    821  2,339  4,338  5,968 6,905  7,332  7,311  7,261  6,994  6,679   6,267
Liabilitiea
Retained Earnings                         --       5      44    156    358   530    702    885  1,090  1,282  1,477   1,677
Central Bank Line of CredLt              100    800  2,250  4,100  5,500 6,250  6,500  6,300  6,050  5,600  5,100   4,500
Interest Payable To Central Bank           2      16      45     82    110   125    130    126    121    112    102             90
Total Liabilities                        102    821  2,339  6,338  5,968 6,905  7,332  7,311  7,261  6,994  6,679   6,267
WAD
December 1984



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CAMARA'S INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW (1984-1995)
(in Conatant 1984 US$ '000)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
PYO    PY1    PY2    nY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9   P10   FYmI
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Project Farmers Export (Tons) a           __      _-      112    755  1,803  2,982  3,872  4,610  5,098  5,391  5,535  5,605
FOB Malabo (US$/Ton)                      --      --   1,499  1,479  1,449  1,429  1,389  1.469  1,549  1,609  1,669  1,729
Total F.O.B Value (In 000'US$)            --      --      168  1,117  2,613  4,261  5,378  6,772  7,896  8,674  9,242  9,691
Revenue on Export (4Z F.O.B)              --      --        7     45    104    170    215    271    316    347    370    385         2,230
Government Subsidy                         280    486    357    353    243    151    -         -      -       -      -      -        1,870
TOTAL SOURCES                                  280    486    364    398    347    321    215    271    316    347    370    385          4,100
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Costs                                                                                                                                    (
Buildings                             132      64     --      --     --     --      --     --      --     -       --               196
Vehicles Equipment                    122    137      20      14     35      21     --     40      40     40      50     50        569
Sub-Total Capital Costs           254    201      20     14      35     21      -      40     40      40     50      50       765
Operating Costs
Technical Assistance                   24    188    188    188    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
Local Staff                             1      32     34      35     35     30      32     32      32     32      32     32
*  Running Costs, Maintenance               1     47      57     58      44     40      43     43     43      43     43      43
Audit, Consultancy                     --      16     58      58     58     58      25     25      25     25      25     25          -
Sub-Total Operating Costs         .26    283    337    339    237    228    200    200    200    200    200    200          2,650
Interest On Short-Term Loans               --       2     13      22     31      30     30      31     32     33      31     30        285
TOTAL APPLICATION                              280    486    370    375    303    279    230    271    272    273    281    280          3,700
ANNUAL CASH FLOW                                --     --      (6)    23      44     42    (15)    --      44      74     89    105        400       M
CUMULATIVE CASH PLOW                            -§ - 16  i8L, 21                            if       l    ±l      129 5 400        2       *2
a/  The production of a given year is exported the next year.
WAPAD
December 1984



DQIIATORIAL GUINEA
COrOA REPABILITATION PROJECT
C0VERli l;T INCREDNTAL CASH FLJWW te4-1995)
(In Constant 1984 I' S$1n0)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995          TOTAL
PYO    PYl    PY2    PY3    FY4    PY5    PY6    PT,    PyS    PY9   PYIO   PYI;
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Revenue
ProJect Incremental Production          --     23    201    712  1.536  2,402  3,140  3,628  3,921  6,065  4,135  4,163
F.0.2 Kolabo. ir US$/Ton               --  1.500  1,480  1,450  1,430  1,390  1,470  1,550  1.610  1,670  1,730  1.730               -
Total F.o.P V"lue                       --     34    297  1,032  2,196  3,339  4,616  5,6?3  6.313  6,789  7.154  7.202    44.595
Export Tax t. 2 of F.O.B)               --     Al     8Y      82     8t      8S    142    lS2    222    22Z    222    222
Revenie on Export Tax  /                                   3     24      82    176    267    646  1.012  1,389  1,493  1,578         6,670
Othor Taxes                                 80     70      9t    130    160    130    130    130    130    130    130    100          1.410
82 Interest on ACD's Line of Credit         --     10      74    175    288    350    377    372    347    320    284    243          21140
Sub-Total Revenue                      80      80    167    329    530    656    774  1,148  1,489  1,839  1.907  1.921    10.920
External Loans b.
IDA                                   719  1,402  1,531  1,669  1,172    532                -       -      --      -      --     7,025
EEC                                           201    165    194    128       87      --     -       --                              675
BADEA                                  --      36    282    582    654    477        --                                          2.030
OPEC                                   --    193    193    193    135        66      -              --     -       -      --        780
Sub-Total                             719  1.732  2,171  2,637  2,089  1,162                                                     10.510
Reieburscrent by ACO's Line of Credit    --        --      --     --      --                   200    250    450    500    600        2.000
TOTAL SOURCES                                  799  1,812  2,338  2.966  2,619  1,818    774  1.348  1,739  2,289  2.407  2,521    23,430
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Costs
ACD1                                  208    361    28R    292    260        71      --     --      --     --      --     --      1,480
CAt?ARA                               277    482    359    353    245    164         --     --      __     __      __     __      1,880
M.O.A                                  151    219    211    220    160    119    160    160    160    160    160_   60            2 040
Institution Operating Costs c/            636  1,062    858    865    665    354    160    160    160    160    160    160            5,400
Interest on External Loans                  -      15      26     53      99    145    176    165    154    144    132    121         1,230
Sub-Tatnl Costs                       636  1,077    884    918    764    499    336    326    314    304    292    281            6,630
Line of Credit to ACD                      100    700  1,450  1,F5O  1,400    750    250        _-      __     __      __     __      6,5C0
Debt Serv!ce on External Loans              --     --      --     --      --     65    2;4   249    249    249    249    249          1,800
TOTAL APPLICA..ON'                             736  1,777  2,334  2.768  2.164  1,314    835    574    563    553    541    771    14,930
ANNUAL BALANrE                                  63      35      4    198    455    504    (61)   774  1,176  1,736  1,866  1,750          8,500
CUMULATIVE BALANCE                             2§,J2L 222    Zaa .Q           5 122  1A.12!  1A2L3  2A14. *dIb  *AU.2  1AL22
a/  The production of one given year is exported the raxt year. at vhich tire the export tax is levied.
b/ USS10.5 million ir constant is equivalent to US$14.0 In current.
A ACD'O' ind CAMARA'r operating costs are subsidized during the project implerentation perioc only.
WAPAD
December 1984



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA RF.HABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT INCREMENTAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE CASH FLOW (1984-1995)
(In Constant US$ '000)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995            TOTAL
PYO    PYI    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9   PYIO   PY11
FOREIGN EXCHANGE INFLOW
Cocoa EAport
Project Incremental Production                   23    201    712  1,536  2,402  3,140  3.628  3,921  4,065  4,135  4,163                -
F.O.B Malabo (In US$/Ton)                     1,500  1,480  1,450  1,430  1,390  1,470  1,550  1,610  1,670  1,730  1,730               -
Value of Cocoa Export A                              __      34    297  1,032  2,196  3,339  4,616  5,623  6,313  6.789  7,157    37,396
Project External Financing of
Imported Inputs and Equipment
Seasonal Loans                           57    334    654    691    458    261                         -      -       -       -          -
Medium-Term Production                   --      37      85    144    152    105        __     __      _       _       _      -          _
Hedium-Term Equipment                    26    254    317    421    205    151         -       - 
Sub-Total                            83    625  1,056  1.256    817    517                                                       4,354
TOTAL INFLOW                                      83    625  1,090  1,553  1,849  2,713  3,339  4.616  5,623  6,313  6,789  7,157    41,750
I
FOREIGN EXCHANGE OUTFLOW
Seasonal Loans/Import                         57    334    707    994  1,121  1,217  1,274  1,309  1,313  1,314  1.314  1,315                -
Hedium-Tcrm/Chemicals                         --     37      85    142    153    105        48    --
Medium-Term/Equipment                         26    254    317    421    205    197    245    280    361    226    207    207                -
Sub-Total Inputs                         83    625  1,109  1,557  1,479  1,519  1,567  1,589  1,674  1,540  1,521  1.522    15,785
Interest, External Loans                      --     15      26      53     99    145    176    165    154    144    132    121           1,230
Debt Service, External Loans                  --     --      --      --     --      65    249    249    249    249    249    490          1,800
TOTAL OUTFLoW                                     83    640  1,135  1,610  1,578  1,729  1,992  2,003  2,077  1,933  1,902  2,133    18,815
ANNUAL CASH FLOW                                  --    (15)   (45)   (57)   271    984  1,347  2,613  3,546  4,380  4,887  5,024    22,935
CUMULATIVE SALANCE                                       (1)   (42)  (WD)   1i  1hill  ,             4& ;A221  Id&M  1U&.2- IZ&211 .2dM2
a/  The production of a given year i. exported the next year.
WAPAD
December 1984



IBRO 17964R
8'30'                                                                JANUARY 1986
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
BIOKO ISLAND
ROADS
4..  PORTS
*    AIRPORT
6!3   NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS AND STREAMS
-. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A T L A N T  C
O C EA N
330'                                                                                                                    3-30
K(~~~~~~~a
A T   A N T I 4C
MALI   NIGER      /   CHAD   f
ZSUDAN
o             10            20 Kilometers                                                                    2
I ,ap IWT mm                     IS has o  p~   by
,  Miles                                             Th& WOW   5,1.9 .eS.*8 A
osrr VW samre  offi V           NIGERIA  
food"         hr a   Zxkoa  r,ru VW              , 
~rat Of 7hz&IPJw/    ).  CENTRAL
AM ewdImIae -          r                           AFRICAN
conetwF rh dw_                      <,r '    S    R PtBL@c_
Mwdada _      n amCAMEROON'
an IW moo d EIOtE. an ne   Bhoco Isi'
panef hweo Ib .* NV VW  EOUATORIAL< . *i-t         l
V30'                   uffuan          GABO GUIN  S  NGCi  ZAIRE
of SW APin Orn .iI
sWa --_ _d            C.d C          ( ABDN Of



