Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11462
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1548-EG)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency: CFAF 1/
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE
1985   USS 1    =   CFAF 449
1986   USS 1    =   CFAF 346
1987   USS 1    =   CFAF 301
1988   USS 1    =   CFAF 298
1989   US$ 1    =   CFAF 319
1990   USS 1    =   CFAF 270
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA       Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (Arab Bank
for Economic Development in Africa)
BCD         Banco de Credito y Desarrollo (Credit and Development Bank)
CAMARA   Camara Oficial de Comercio Agricola y Forestal
Chamber of Commerce
CPMCU       Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit
CRP         Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Cacao
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
DICSA       Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project
Proyecto de Diversificaci6n de Cultivos y Servicios Agricolas
EEC         European Economic Community
FAO/IBRD   Food and Agriculture Organization/International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
GOEG        Government of Equatorial Guinea
IDA         International Development Association
IDEPA       Instituto de Desarrollo y Promoci6n Agricola
(Institute for Agriculture Development and Promotion)
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
OFA         Organizaci6n de Fomento Agricola
Agricultural Development Organization
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
STABEX      European Common Market Tropical Products Price Stabilization Subsidy
Programme
1/ The parity of the CFAF with the French Franc is fixed at 50/1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Equatorial Guinea
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1548-EGa
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Equatorial
Guinea Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1548-EG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. It
covers all relevant aspects in a satisfactory manner.
Project design did not take realistic account of technical and administrative constraints
or of unusually difficult country conditions. While it achieved its major physical objectives, it did not
meet its cocoa production targets, covered only 43 percent of the estimated area and reached 70
percent of the estimated number of beneficiaries. The main adverse factors were declining
international cocoa prices, low domestic farmgate prices and unrealistic yield expectations given weak
supporting services.
The economic rate of return at completion is reestimated to be close to zero
compared to an appraisal estimate of 44%. The project is, therefore, rated as unsatisfactory and its
sustainability as unlikely. An attempt is being made under a follow-on project to address production,
financial and institutional constraints faced by the industry and to encourage diversification out of
cocoa in areas less suitable for its economic production.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) is comprehensive and informative. No
comments on Parts I and m were received from the Borrower. An audit is proposed.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
PREFACE   .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity .   .   .1
B. Background .   .   . . . .1
C. Project Objectives and Description .    .    . . . . . . . . .   3
D. Project Design and Organization .       .     . . . . . . . . . . .   4
E. Project Implementation .        .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Implementation Schedule .       .      . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Procurement  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .           7
Disbursement ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Risks  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  8
F. Project Results .         .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
G. Project Sustainability  ....  .       .  .  .    ......  .  .    .   12
H. Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
I.  Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
J.  Project Relationship  ....  .      .  .  .    ........  .     .   14
K. Consulting Services ....  .  .      .  .  .    .......  .  .   .   14
L.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FORM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . .  17
2.  Table 2: Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
3. Table 3: Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(SDR Million) . .... ...                                   19
B. IDA Allocation as per Credit Agreement . . . . . . . .  20
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
B. Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
6. Project Results
A. Direct Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
B. Economic Impact  .....  .  .        ......  .    .  .  .  .    .   25
C. Basic Assumption of Economic Impact  . . . . . . . . .  25
7.  Compliance vith Legal Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
B. Missions (Staff and Consultants)  . . . . . . . . . . .   28
ANNEX 1:  ECONOMIC EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
ATTACHMENT 1: COMMENTS FROM COFINANCIERS
Comments from EEC ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   39
Comments from BADEA ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   40
Comments from OPEC Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
MAP: IBR 17954R1



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
PREFACE
This  is  the  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  for  the  Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project, for which Credit 1548-EG in the amount of SDR 9.1 million
was approved on February 19, 1985.  The IDA Credit was fully disbursed.  The
Credit closed in December 1990, six months behind schedule.  The Project was
cofinanced with BADEA (US$2.8 million equivalent), the OPEC Fund (US$1.0 million
equivalent) and the EEC (US$0.9 million equivalent). The total amounts of the
two latter cofinanciers were fully disbursed, while only US$0.3 million
equivalent was disbursed from the BADEA loan.
Parts I and III were prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
and revised by staff of the Agricultural Operations Division of the Occidental
and Central Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office. Government has been
requested several times to complete Part II of the PCR, but has not done so.
Parts I and III were sent for comments to the cofinanciers. Comments received
from EEC, BADEA and OPEC Fund are included as Attachment 1.
The PCR was prepared 15 months after the Credit was closed because
IDA staff continued to supervise activities financed by OPEC and BADEA, which
loans closed only in June 1991.  The PCR is base, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, IDA's Development Credit Agreement, the BADEA's Loan Agreement,
the OPEC's Fund Loan Agreement and the EEC legal agreement; supervision reports;
the mid-term review report; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
the Bank and other cofinanciers; internal Bank memoranda; the Project's Quarterly
Progress and Final Reports; and discussions with representatives of the Borrower,
project staff and the Bank, and interviews of cocoa farmers.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives (Part I, para 1.13)
1.          The objectives of the project were to:  (a) alleviate the
constraints impeding the increased production of cocoa; (b) establish
the necessary infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development in
the cocoa sub-sector in the future; and (c) increase cocoa production in
the project area and improve quality control of cocoa beans.
Proiect Design (Part I, para 1.09)
2.          The project's concept and strategy coincided with the aims
of the Government. Project design was simple and recognized the
weaknesses in public administrative capability and the probable level of
political interference. The project identified some of the major
constraints to improved sub-sector performance. Nevertheless, the scope
of the project was over-optimistic since several other key factors were
either overlooked or their potentially negative impacts were
insufficiently evaluated during the preparation and appraisal phases.
The problems that were given insufficient attention during project
design were: (a) the significance of the land tenure system and its
effect on sharecroppers' benefits from cocoa production; (b)
underestimation of the need for research and extension; (c) difficulties
to be met in overcoming the shortage of labor; and (d) over-estimation
of the country's public sector ability to implement projects under
defined rules of conduct and procedures.
3.          The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP) was the first IDA
assisted project in the agricultural sector of Equatorial Guinea. It is
important, therefore, to give some background of the economic and
political situation prevailing during the appraisal process to
understand the goals and objectives that were set for the project. The
project was identified in 1981, prepared in 1982 and appraised in 1983
with a post-appraisal mission in early 1984. At that time, the Bank did
not have prior experience in the country and the overall economic and
policical situation was only beginning to improve after a period of
serious economic mismanagement and the destructive rule of the Macias
Nguema regime. During that period, agricultural services and
institutions ceased to operate, and production of cash and food crops
declined drastically. Water, electricity power, roads, ports and
telecommunication infrastructure fell into disrepair. Foreign
investment came to a halt, the state-operated trading system broke down,
the public administration virtually ceased to operate and barter trade
increased. Under these circumstances, the mid-term evaluation mission
found that the identification, preparation and appraisal teams were
unable to recognize fully the technical and institutional limitations
which later plagued project implementation.



- iv -
Implementation Experience  (Part I, para 1.22)
4.          The Credit became effective in July 1985 while the original
closing date was extended by six months. Technical assistance was put
in place in a timely fashion. The circumstances under which the project
was implemented were extremely adverse. As noted above, the country had
gone through 10 years of social and economic upheaval and the economy
was at a virtual standstill. In particular, political interference at
the institutional and production levels had disrupted the efficient
provision of credit and input distribution services and the value of
cocoa exports was being heavily penalized for poor grading and quality.
5.          Project implementation was characterized by reduced farmer
participation compared to that estimated in the SAR. This was caused by
many farmers being non-eligible for credit and by insufficient benefits
reaching the farmers. The latter was caused in part by the
sharecropping system, the preponderance of which had increased prior to
the start of the project, and in part by the unpredicted and
unprecedented fall in world cocoa prices. Additional constraints to
area expansion were the lack of available labor and the inability of the
farmers to adopt new labor-saving, disease-control technologies.
6.          The project successfully implemented improvements to cocoa
grading and enhanced the quality of cocoa exported. Improved input
purchasing and distribution was initiated early during disbursement, but
developed problems during 1989/90 due to inappropriate purchasing
decisions and poor inventory control. Improved agronomic practices
which would have reduced costs and labor were developed but not widely
disseminated. Similarly, improvements to cocoa drying through the use
of cost-reducing alternative driers were established but not extended to
a significant number of farmers.
7.          Actual project expenditure for technical assistance,
transportation and civil works increased from that estimated in the SAR.
Agreed changes to IDA allocations for these categories of expenditure
increased by 204% over SAR-estimated requirements.
8.          The GOEG encountered difficulties in providing the
Government's share of project funding from 1987 to 1990 with only 42% of
SAR estimated contributions being transferred to the project.
Additionally, GOEG's past dues to BADEA and OPEC, which remained
unsettled, caused disbursement problems creating cash-flow difficulties
for the project during the last 2-3 years of project implementation.
Overall project expenditures reached USS 12.44 million compared to US$
16.2 million estimated in the SAR. The IDA Credit was fully disbursed.
Proiect Results (Part I, para 1.33)
9.          Although two out of three objectives of the project were
substantially met (para 1.36 and Annex 1), based on the reestimated
economic rate of return at completion in the range of -1% and 2%, the
overall performance of the project was unsatisfactory. This ERR was due
largely to the decline in world prices and in production (reduced area
and yields). The mid-term evaluation noted that the projection of area
to be rehabilitated was over-optimistic. Notwithstanding the overall
economic performance, the project was overall successful in meeting the
first two objectives of the project: (a) alleviate the constraints
impeding the increased production of cocoa and (b) establish the
infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development in the future.
The project was instrumental in improving the consistency of the aualitg
of the cocoa exported. As a result. confidence in the country's



capacitv to produce cood aualitv cocoa was restored and the consequent
reduction in price penalty for poor quality which affected all exports
of cocoa from Equatorial Guinea. The project introduced an
internationally accepted grading system, and maintained strict
supervision of quality control in storage. As a result, the decline in
farmgate prices was not as severe as it would have otherwise been
without the project. In addition, the project was successful in
establishing a viable credit system in an environment where credit was
poorly administered and the poor management of credit had brought the
banking system to collapse. The project had an average 95% credit
recovery, which by any standards is a remarkable performance.
10.         The project was, however, only partially successful in
meeting the third objective, i.e. increase cocoa production in the
project area and improve quality control of cocoa beans. While the
project was successful in improving the quality control of cocoa beans,
the production targets at appraisal were not met because of over-
optimistic projections concerning size of holdings and number of
participating farmers. Similarly, the average size of medium and large
estates has been 50 to 75% respectively of appraisal estimates. The
number of participating farmers has been constrained by the stringent
credit-worthiness conditions established under the project in view of
prior experience of inappropriate credit policy and credit
administration, which had resulted in low credit recovery and which
ultimately brought the country's two banks into bankruptcy. In view of
these constraints, the targets were redefined during the mid-term
evaluation mission in November 1988. Total area to be
rehabilitated/intensified was reduced to 3,000 ha or about 50% of the
SAR projections. These targets were surpassed. (Part III, Table 4).
11.         The project reached 70% of the SAR-estimated number of
beneficiaries but covered only 43% of the estimated area (106% of mid-
term evaluation estimate). Cocoa yields did not improve significantly.
By PY-6, world cocoa prices had declined to 64% of the value at the
start of the project, whereas the SAR estimated a decline of only 22%
over the same period. Average farmgate prices in PY-6 were estimated to
be the equivalent of US$ 1.70/kg, but were only US$ 0.87/kg (including
subsidies), 51% of those estimated in the SAR. The resultant ERR is
estimated to be between -1% and +2% depending on whether 20 or 25 years
is used for project life. The mid-term review estimated the ERR at 4%
based on costs and benefits incurred from the beginning of the project
to the mid-term review. In addition, the mid-term review report stated
that an ERR of 28% could be anticipated for the remaining expenditures
and estimated future benefits if it was assumed that all expenditures
prior to the mid-term review were "sunk costs".
12.         Farmers did not expand their area under cultivation by
rehabilitating abandoned cocoa and therefore gross farm revenues ranged
from only 9% to 35% of estimated SAR objectives, depending on farm
category, while gross revenue per hectare ranged from 34% to 55% of SAR
estimates.
13.         Additionally, EEC STABEX subsidies helped to sustain
farmgate prices. Both of these factors helped to slow the decline in
the cocoa area remaining in production on Bioko.
Sustainabilitv (Part I, para 1.46)
14.         Although credit, inputs supply and marketing services worked
rather well under the CRP, it became apparent during project
implementation that these services could not be sustained after the



- vi -
closing date of the Credit. This was because of the absence oft (a)
viable public institutions; (b) commercial banks willing to provide
credit to small farmers and traders; and (c) private sector
institutions, such as farmers' organizations, capable of assuming
responsibility for credit and marketing operations. The IDA-financed
Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project (DICSA) was
formulated to sustain the developments achieved by the CRP, to transfer
project management responsibility to national management, to bring
commercial and credit activities into full self-financing basis by the
end of the project period and incorporate previous project components
into national institutions. An Agricultural Development Organization
(OFA) was established as an independent, self-financing entity to
support small and medium-size farmer and farmer organizations export
marketing, and provide unsubsidized input supply, credit and savings,
and marketing services. Initial equity and operating capital for credit
facilities was provided by the Government from the CRP balances (para
10). Over the project period private sector operators are being
encouraged to replace Government's initial equity. Income and
expenditures projections prepared for the SAR of the DICSA project
showed that after two to three years of OFA's establishment, OFA would
become financially sustainable and operate at a profit.
Findinas and Lessons learnt
15.         It is perhaps easy to forget the circumstances under which
this project was initiated. Social and economic conditions were not far
short of chaos. The project was established under these difficult
conditions and did achieve some of its objectives. It is easy to judge
the project on quantifiable results which are generally unsatisfactory,
but unquantifiable results which are positive have contributed to the
stabilization (albeit at a reduced level of economic activity) of the
cocoa economy in extremely difficult economic circumstances. These
results have laid the foundation for continued sub-sector growth
provided that the DICSA project utilizes the transferred skills and
resources in an appropriate manner. Without the unprecedented and
unpredicted drop in world cocoa prices the project would have achieved
higher farm revenues and a respectable ERR. Under the economic
conditions existing during implementation it was impossible for the
project to have been successful in measured economic terms. However,
some difficult-to-quantify development objectives have been achieved
which will serve the future economic growth of Equatorial Guinea.
16.         The project's baseline information would have been more
accurate had the preparation and appraisal missions spent more time in
the field talking to farmers. The sharecropper situation would have
been elucidated and a more accurate assessment of farm size would have
been made. Better accuracy concerning these two fundamental points
would have made for more realistic quantifiable targets. This would
indicate that preparation costs and time spent on preparation cannot be
economized in unknown and high-risk situations.
17.         From the Borrower's point of view the IC8 process appeared
overly cumbersome and unwieldy and resulted in the costly over-supply of
inputs. For small countries such as Equatorial Guinea a more flexible
process which would still avoid corruption would appear to be necessary.
18.         Given the socio-political conditions that existed in
Equatorial Guinea during preparation and appraisal, a more focused
approach with a detailed strategy for management training could have
resulted in a smoother transition to a sustainable and independent
situation for the national counterparts. Under these circumstances a



- vii -
more detailed training programme based on a skills-gap analysis should
have been included in the project design.
19.         It was too optimistic to design a large credit component and
for projections to enlarge credit operations as rapidly as was planned,
given the troubled prior history of agricultural credit and also with
the large numbers of defaulting farmers.
20.         Projects can rarely be economically viable where large
declines in commodity prices occur over the life of the project, but can
still achieve other important, difficult to quantify results which can
assist in later economic recovery.
21.         The existence of an expatriate technical assistance team is
no guarantee of good project performance. However, without the
expatriate input the credit and quality/grading achievements which were
the two most successful components of the project would not have been
realized. Given the circumstances under which this project was
implemented, the lesson learnt during implementation was that frequent
supervision by the same Bank staff familiar with the details of the
project was essential to keep the project from disintegrating
completely.
22.         The DICSA project was designed to use incentives such as
land tenure reforms and rural credit to increase the profitability of
agricultural productivity by: (a) encouraging farmers to cultivate in
the most productive areas instead of increasing the total area of
production; (b) reducing through research the cost of black pod
treatment and squirrel control which affect cocoa production; (c)
encouraging intercropping to reduce costs of weeding and increase
revenues from additional production. The objective of these actions is
that farmers will become sufficiently productive to profitably produce
cocoa without subsidy. At the same time, and under the crop
diversification program, the removal of subsidies will encourage farmers
growing in marginal areas to diversify out of cocoa into other crops
with good market prospects.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Pro-ect Identity
Project Name             Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
Credit No          :     1548-EG
RVP Unit                 Africa
Country                  Equatorial Guinea
Sector             :     Agriculture
B.    Backaround
1.01        Equatorial Guinea, a former overseas province of Spain,
became independent in October 1968. With a total area of 28,000 sq. km,
the country is situated on the Southern corner of the Gulf of Guinea.
It consists of two parts: Continental Guinea (26,000 sq. km) and
Insular Guinea (2,000 sq. km). With a population estimated at 350,000
inhabitants and a per capita income of US$450 in 1990, EQG has one of
the world's smallest and least developed economies.  Prior to
independence, the Spaniards concentrated on cocoa production which has
remained the principal economic activity on the Island of Bioko.  Cocoa
production with about 46,000 ha planted, reached its peak of about
38,000 tons annually before independence in 1968.  The cocoa sub-sector
was based on large expatriate-owned land holdings, well-developed
infrastructure (roads, cocoa driers and warehouses) and the use of
imported foreign labor. The climatic and soil conditions of the
volcanic island between sea-level and 500 m. elevation are ideal for
cocoa and annual yields prior to independence were 850 kg/ha with some
preferred areas giving yields of around 2,000 kg/ha and over 1,000 kg/ha
being common on large estates.
1.02        During the Macias regime (1969 to 1979), the country
gradually came to an almost complete standstill. About 55% of the
45,700 ha planted with cocoa, principally on the 150 largest estates,
were abandoned as foreign managers and workers fled the country. By
1982 exports had fallen to around 7,300 tons, more than 25,000 ha having
been abandoned. Those areas that remained under cultivation were farmed
by smallholders and sharecroppers. The quality of farm management was
adversely affected by the shortage of fungicides, and the quality of
harvested cocoa declined because of poor drying on decaying driers or
deteriorated in inadequate storage facilities. The marketing of the
cocoa exported deteriorated to the point where international confidence
was lost and the market imposed high levels of discount to offset poor
quality, short weight and a general disregard for contractual
obligations. By 1984 the area of cocoa worked was estimated at 19,000
ha, or 42% of the land planted with cocoa.
1.03        The CAMARA 1/ was, during the pre-independence era, a
semi-autonomous organization run by cocoa and coffee estate owners and
timber businessmen along with representatives of the colonial
1/ Camara Oficial de Comercio Agricola y Forestal



- 2 -
administration. It was responsible for the coordination and assembly,
grading, export and taxation of primary agricultural products including
cocoa and for the bulk purchase, storage and distribution of
agricultural inputs. When transformed into a fully-owned state
authority after independence, the CAMARA continued to perform these
functions and was, in addition, given monopoly over the export of
primary agricultural products. However, its operational capacity
decreased progressively, its control over the exportation of cocoa,
coffee and timber weakened since it lacked information and contact with
world markets, obtained reduced cooperation from national estate-owners
and producers, and suffered general deterioration in staffing and
management, physical installations, and general operational support.
The functioning of the Banco de Cr6dito y Desarrollo (BCD) was also
compromised by political interference. BCD's credit decisions were
often based upon considerations other than commercial viability, while
at the same time it lacked the authority and political clout for
successful credit recovery. Towards the end of the Macias' regime,
expatriate land owners were invited to return to rehabilitate their
abandoned plantation.. Many returned and after receiving large credits
from BCD left the country again, without settling their debts. As a
result of its inappropriate credit policy, inadequate selection of
client., absence of financial and credit controls, and low credit
recovery, BCD went into serious liquidity problems in 1988, could no
longer sustain its credit operations, and went into liquidation in 1989.
1.04        Despite the decline in cocoa production and exports during
the late 1970s, agriculture still generated about 50% of GDP, provided
employment to some 80% of the population and earned almost all the
country's foreign exchange.
1.05        In 1979 a change of government resulted in new initiatives
to rebuild the economy by: (a) revitalizing agricultural production and
exports and (b) re-establishing social infrastructure including public
administration, education and hospitals. A high priority was given to
promoting cocoa exports.
1.06        The project was identified in January 1981 and US$200,000
were made available through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
finance the detailed preparation of the project. The principal
constraints to increased cocoa production were seen as:
(a)   a lack of investment capital and a weak banking sector;
(b)   an inadequate supply of agricultural inputs; and
(c)   a lack of manual labor.
1.07        The project was appraised by an IDA mission in May-June 1983
but not approved until February 1985. Two major concerns were to delay
final approval. The first was the overvaluation and inconvertibility of
the Equatorial Guinean currency, the Epkwele. The devaluation of the
Epkwele and replacement by the CFA franc was achieved on January 1,
1985. The second concern was over the availability of labor. During
appraisal, assurances were obtained from GOEG that measures would be
taken before June 30, 1985 to facilitate recruitment of plantation
labor. (Section 3.02 (a) of Credit Agreement).
1.08        The first TA staff arrived in Equatorial Guinea in December
1984. The project became effective in July 1985.



- 3 -
C.    Proiect Obiectives and Descrigtion
1.09        Prolect Obiectives.  The objectives of the project were to:
(a) alleviate the constraints impeding the increased production of
cocoa; (b) establish the necessary infrastructure to maintain the
momentum of development in the cocoa sub-sector in the futurel and (c)
increase cocoa production in the project area and improve quality
control of cocoa beans. To achieve these objectives, project actions
were to: (a) provide agricultural credit to meet the seasonal, medium-
term, and long-term financing needs of creditworthy farmers and
cooperatives; and (b) improve and strengthen the capacity and
operational efficiency of the Ministry of Agriculture and the project
implementing agencies. The project was to be implemented over a 5 year
period beginning in December 1984 at a total cost of US$16.2 million
including contingencies and taxes, of which 22.8% was to be from local
funds. The IDA credit was US$9.3 million (SDR 9.1 million) and other
financing agencies were the Arab Bank for Agricultural Development in
Africa (US$ 2.8 million), OPEC Fund for Agricultural Development (US$
1.0 million), EEC (US$ 0.9 million); and GOEG US$2.2 million).
1.10        Proiect Description.  The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
included components to:
-     reinforce the Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) within
the BCD and train nationals in credit supervision;
-     strengthen the CAMARA in the areas of input procurement and
distribution, monitoring and marketing of cocoa exports,
cocoa grading and quality control;
-     provide supervised agricultural credit to meet seasonal,
medium-term and long-term financing needs of creditworthy
cocoa farmers; and
-     strengthen the MOA's capacity for planning and monitoring
production activities in the cocoa sub-sector by creating a
Cocoa Production Monitoring and Control Unit (CPMCU).
1.11        These actions were to be assisted by 20 man-years of
technical assistance in the form of a team of five resident experts who
would manage the project, working in close collaboration with a national
counterpart team.
1.12        The project was to intensify 2/ the production on 3,175 ha
and renovate 3/ 3,835 ha of selected abandoned cocoa plantations. It
was expected that annual cocoa yields (combined rehabilitated and
intensified areas) would improve from 354 kg/ha to 611 kg/ha by PY-6
(and to 746 kg/ha at full development in PY-11) and 565 producers would
benefit most of whom were small farmers.   Although the sharecropping
situation was acknowledged in the SAR, the proportion of sharecroppers
of the total project beneficiaries was not mentioned.
2/ By improved attention to agronomic practices and timing of
operations.
3/ Renovation implies replanting either completely or by progressive old
tree replacement by infilling with new saplings as in the "TurrialbaN
system.



-4-
D.    Prolect Design and Organization
1.13        The project's concept and strategy coincided with the aims
of the GOEG. Project design was simple and recognized the weaknesses in
public administrative capability and the probable level of political
interference. The project identified some of the major constraints to
improved sub-sector performance. Nevertheless, the scope of the project
was over-optimistic since several other key factors were either
overlooked or their potentially negative impacts were insufficiently
evaluated during the preparation and appraisal phases. The problems
that were given insufficient attention during project design weres
-     the significance of the land tenure system and its effect on
sharecroppers' benefits from cocoa production;
-     underestimation of the need for research and extension if
projected cocoa yield increases were to be obtained;
-     under-estimation of the price penalty for poor quality of
cocoa exports;
-     difficulties to be met in overcoming the shortage of labor;
and
-     over-estimation of the Equatorial Guinean public sector's
ability to implement projects under defined rules of conduct
and procedures.
1.14        In addition, the implication of what turned out to be a
major decline in the world price of cocoa on project feasibility was not
explained.
1.15        The key project component was the provision of production
credit both in kind and in cash, which together totalled 62% of the
total projected costs. The need for success with the credit operation,
was recognized and the risk of failure was minimized by setting short-
term objectives and by assurances from the GOEG that the credit
administrators would meet specific performance criteria agreed during
negotiations.
1.16        A new credit supervision and monitoring unit was to be
created within the Banco de Cr6ddto y Desarrollo, working under strict
guidelines and with prior approval by the Cocoa Production Monitoring
and Control Unit (CPMCU). Two expatriate positions were considered
necessary to strengthen the farm credit operations, an agricultural
credit specialist and an agronomist with a total of eight man-years of
technical assistance.
1.17        The CAMARA was to be responsible for: (a) the importation of
farm inputs; (b) management of cocoa export contracts; and (c)
monitoring and improving cocoa grading and quality control.
Streamlining the importation of agricultural inputs and distribution
system was to be aided by the employment of an experienced expatriate
for four man-years. A new Inspection and Grading service was to: (a)
enforce strict grading standards for various bean qualities and (b) to
take appropriate measures to improve bean quality through better
processing. Three man-years of specialist expatriate time were
allocated for strengthening these activities.
1.18        The CPMCU was to operate within the MOA and be headed by an
expatriate Project Director. The unit was responsible for project
management, coordination and integration of any additional sub-sector



activities generated by other international donors and for the
strengthening of MOA's capacity to plan and monitor sub-sector
activities. The project Director also assisted GOEG with project-
related disbursement applications. In addition, CPMCU was also to
provide on-the-job training to national counterparts to increase
management capability.
1.19        A small technical agronomic unit (Grupo de Apoyo T6cnico -
GAT) was to be placed under the CPMCU to work specifically on problems
associated with control of Black Pod disease and improvements in cocoa
drying.
1.20        At appraisal, the level of technological expertise used by
farmers was considered satisfactory, in that they were already using
chemicals for disease control and were familiar with the timing and
dosages required. As a consequence, technical risks were considered
insignificant. Reduced producer participation was not considered a risk
because it was thought that incentives were adequately high.
1.21        The major significant risks recognized as likely to affect
the project were the lack of commitment by GOEG to the project, the
troubled history of institutional ineptness and corruption, and the lack
of IDA experience with Equatorial Guinea, since this project was the
first IDA credit to Equatorial Guinea. Given the robust estimated
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 44% and the importance of cocoa
production to the economy, the risks were considered worth taking.
E.    Prolect Implementation
1.22        The project was appraised in June 1983.  The Credit was
approved in February 1985. A delay of 6 months in project effectiveness
caused by the delay in compliance with the conditionality of replacement
of the Epkwele with the CFA franc contributed to the year's delay in
actual project completion and credit closing dates compared to the
planned dates. Under the difficult circumstances prevailing in
Equatorial Guinea the project did well to maintain implementation
momentum.
1.23        A WB/FAO-CP mid-term review mission was undertaken in
October - November 1988. The review found that the number of
participating farmers was less than expected and the average size of the
farms was overestimated at appraisal. Consequently, the total area
rehabilitated/ intensified had been only 39% and total production was
only 42% of that projected by the SAR up to the end of 1988. On the
positive side, the review noted that the project had been able to re-
establish international buyers' confidence in Equatorial Guinean cocoa
due to improvements in quality control and had eliminated the previous
trading monopolies. In addition, the review noted the establishment of
a workable system for input importation and distribution, albeit at a
high administrative cost.
1.24        The review identified 5 causes for the discrepancies between
the SAR and performance up to the mid-term review. These were:
(a)   the number of participating farmers was constrained by the
stringent credit-worthiness conditions established under the
project in view of the experience of poor loan repayment in
the past. Considering that a large number of farmers were
heavily in debt to the banks, it was unreasonable to expect
the participation of large number of farmers under such
credit conditions;



-6-
(b)   the-lack of recognition of the changes to farm size and
structure that had occurred under the previous regime. The
appraisal mission did not recognize sufficiently the impact
of these changes in projecting the sizes and number of farm
holdings because of the unavailability of hired labor;
(c)   the local knowledge of appropriate agronomic practices was
over-estimated at appraisal. The great majority of
smallholders had been introduced to cocoa as forced labor
(from the Continental Region) under the supervision of
unqualified managers after the departure of the foreigners;
(d)   the Government not complying with the assurances at
negotiations that it would introduce measures to facilitate
the recruitment of foreign labor; and
(e)   the erosion of cocoa incomes caused by the change in
currency which, implied de facto a devaluation of 82%.
1.25        The mid-term review estimated the actual ERR at about 4%,
based on costs and benefits incurred from the beginning of the project
to the mid-term review. With restructuring of both targets and costs it
was shown that an overall 6% ERR could be achieved. Further, the mid-
term report noted that an ERR of 28% could be anticipated for the
remaining expenditure (1989/90) and estimated future benefits if it was
assumed that all expenditures prior to the mid-term review were "sunk
costs".
1.26        Given the difficulty in executing projected targets in so
far as rehabilitation of cocoa farms were concerned and taking into
account the actual shortage of labor, the mid-term review recommended
the scaling-back of the area target and projected yield increases to 36%
and 90% respectively of the SAR estimates but increasing the number of
farmers to be incorporated by PY-6 to 106% of SAR estimate. Other
recommendations included greater need to focus credit to small
producers, to streamline credit supervision and reduce operating costs.
Recommendations for enhancing extension efforts included advancing staff
training at a greater pace and greater effort in extension of tested
chemical treatments.
1.27        Because of the shortfall in number of beneficiaries and
because individual credit requirements were below those foreseen at
appraisal, the surplus credit funds were redirected to other uses as
shown in the table belowt
1.28        Imiilementation Schedule.  Credit operations were not
initiated during the 1985/86 campaign as planned because annual cocoa
campaigns begin in April of each year and with the delay in the date of
credit effectiveness until July, the season was already well advanced
before the project was truly operational. Instead lending started at
the beginning of the 1986/87 campaign. This delay nevertheless helped
project management to become acquainted with the BCD practices and
permitted the identification of individuals who were bad credit risks.
The technical assistance team was hired on schedule; their performance
was mixed (para 1.63). Studies were carried out as planned. The
implementation of the training programme for national counterparts was
undertaken only after a suitable period of on-the-job training and task
familiarization had taken place. Additional problems were related to
the difficulty in locating suitable short courses in Spanish in the
region and the overall low level of formal training of staff, which
constrained the eligibility of staff for a number of training courses
available in Latin America. Notwithstanding these difficulties, a



- 7 -
number of project staff received training in cocoa production, credit
supervision, computers, bookkeeping and accounting related matters.
1.29        Procurement.  Input supplies for producers were available
throughout the project.  Project management in conjunction with MOA was
able to organize the timely bidding, the award of purchasing contracts
and to arrange shipments of chemicals and other basic supplies so that
inputs were available throughout the campaign season (April to
December). Some problems did occur however over the specifications and
cost of certain items required by producers (see para. 1.42 f).
1.30        Disbursements.  Total disbursements were US$12.44 million
(about 77% of SAR estimates). The IDA credit and the OPEC loan were
fully disbursed. BADEA disbursements were US$0.34 (15% of SAR) and
Government participation was USS 0.92 million (42% of SAR) (see Part
III, Table 3). Project disbursements were considerably less than
appraisal estimates for the BADEA loan because of suspension of
disbursements on all BADEA projects to the country due to lack of
payment of arrears by the Government. Project objectives and targets
were revised once at the mid-term review (see paras 1.25 to 1.27) and
IDA credit allocations 4 times on 11/2/87, 26/8/87, 27/9/88 and 9/1/90
to adjust the project to the foreseen implementation capacity and
constraints and with the additional aim of achieving a positive economic
impact.
Table of IDA Credit
Categories and Agreed
Alterations
(SDR '000)
Item                At loan    Sep 27 1988   Jan 9 1990
! _____________________________  agreement
Civil Works                        350           870            840
Vehicles and Equipment             390          1600            1900
Training and Consultancies         350           580             580
Technical Assistance              1270          1600            1500
operating Costs                    300           840             760
Incremental Credit                4630          2560           2535
Initial Deposit                    100           180            180
PPF                                930           766             766
Unallocated                        780           104              39
Total                             9100          9100           9100
1.31        The IDA allocations for civil works, vehicles and equipment,
training and technical assistance increased from US 2.36 million in the
SAR to USS 4.82 million, a variance of USS 2.46 million or 204% of the
SAR estimate. The substantial increase in costs incurred for civil
works was because of under estimation at appraisal of civil works costs
given that all the materials had to be imported. At the same time, the
producer credit allocation decreased from US$ 4.63 million to USS 2.54



million, a variance of USS 2.09 million or only 55% of the estimated SAR
requirements.
1.32        Risks.  At appraisal no significant technical risks were
identified since the relatively simple agronomic techniques were to be
known by the target population. Lower than targeted farming
participation was not considered a risk in view of measures to be built
into the project to improve producer incentives. It was also expected
that the risk of any shortage of hired labor would be lessened because
the Government was required under the Credit Agreement "to facilitate
the recruitment of cocoa plantation laborers from overseas, including
the granting of work permits on reasonable conditions". (Section 3.02
(d)).
F.    Proiect Results
1.33        The main indicators of project performance compared to SAR
estimates are shown in Part III, Table 4, Project Implementation, which
compares these at appraisal, after resetting the targets at the mid-term
review and at project completion.
1.34        The project did not produce the expected quantifiable
results. The area covered by the project reached only 43% of SAR (106%
of mid-term evaluation estimates), numbers of beneficiaries were 70% of
SAR and yields, in particular of the large plantations, did not improve
significantly. The main reason for the reduced area covered was the
lack of rehabilitation which reached only 6.5% of the SAR estimate. The
lack of rehabilitation was caused by the fall in world market prices,
which rendered rehabilitation economically unattractive, in particular
under the existing sharecropper system of land tenure.
1.35        However, with project, 9,000 ha are estimated to have
remained in production, whereas without the project it is estimated that
only 4,000 ha would have remained in production. The ERR was estimated
to be between -1% and +2% depending on whether 20 or 25 years is used as
the base for project benefits accumulation (see Annex 1 for details).
1.36        Annex I also estimates the ERR assuming that production
areas and cocoa prices prevailed at the levels projected in the SAR.
Under such circumstances, the ERR would have been 21% (see Annex I for
details); the main reason for the decline from the ERR of 44% projected
at appraisal was the decrease in yields of 38% (partly offset by
increases in cocoa quality). The actual ERR of -1% was due largely to
the decline in world prices and the decline in production (reduced area
and yields). The mid term evaluation noted that the projection of area
to be rehabilitated was over-optimistic (para 10).
1.37        Differences between SAR estimated farm incomes and those
achieved under the project cannot be calculated because of lack of
reliable production cost data generated by the project. However, SAR
estimated gross sales revenues can be compared with actual data for
small cooperative, small independent, medium and large scale farmers.
The table below indicates the actual yield, area and production for the
4 farm models along with the gross sales revenue per farm and per
hectare.



-9-
E.ihoma  SAX Yr. 1990                  AIg Yr. 1990I
Fam si  YOdW  FUarpa  Faum    Gros    Frm    YIm   F -.     Fam    Gin
Gi)  ftAw)   Vaho    (USS)  R     pw  ohm a)  (_)  va  (    i    RVwin Pt
US*&g"         _am                   US*'   (US)    b_ m
(USSia)                                  11(UW)
6    593  1043       3723     Q2l   3.3   35       37    1306     343
2B   593  104.J      17401    Q22   6.d   233       37    2674    246
13)  390   104J      139903   933   33.7   44W      Y7    13135    390
3w    g1   104.3     25m6  314      105.3  336      37    30731
In constant 1985 US$ terms.
1.38       Actual gross farm revenues varied from 35% of the estimated
SAR value for small cooperative farmers (6 ha), 10% for small
independent farmers (28 ha), 9% for medium-sized farmers (150 ha) and
12% for large-sized farmers (300 ha) respectively. On a per hectare
basis, the results were 55% of SAR estimates for small cooperative
farmers, 40% for small independent farmers, 42% for medium-sized farmers
and 34% for large-scale farmers.
1.39       One of the project's objectives was to improve the quality
of the cocoa. For marketing purposes, an internationally recognized
cocoa grading system was established, using the London market standards
of Good Fermented, Fair Fermented, and Sub Standard. For domestic
quality control, the much stricter FAO classification norms were
introduced as well. The main project benefit has been the reduction
achieved in the "quality discount"4/ paid for export cocoa. At the
start of the project the percentages of different grades exported
(averaged for 1984/85 and 1985/86 seasons) were:
Grade I (Good fermented)            29.0%
Grade II (Fair fermented)           40.5%
Sub Standard                        30.5%
and by the end of credit disbursement (season 1990/91) the quality of
the exported cocoa had improved to:
Grade I (Good fermented)            90%
Grade II (Fair fermented)           10%
Sub Standard                         0%
1.40       The improvement in cocoa quality resulted in a reduced
penalty. The average "quality discount" or penalty was reduced from
US$ 230/ton (CFA franc 104/kg) in 1985 to USS 140/ton (CFA franc 37/kg)
in 1990. This lowered penalty affected all cocoa produced on Bioko, not
only the cocoa produced under the control of the project. The impact of
the quality improvement on cocoa prices has contributed to the slowing
of the decline in area under cocoa production which without the project
4/ In effect a penalty for poor quality.



- 10 -
would have declined more rapidly. These considerations have been taken
into account in the economic analysis (Annex I).
1.41        An additional benefit has been the demonstration that an
agricultural credit programme can function in Equatorial Guinea and can
recover a high percentage of loans (para 11). Despite the previous
history of loan default, the project was initially able to create
conditions and to supervise the borrowers sufficiently to ensure proper
and timely use of credit and virtually complete loan recovery. Even in
the last 2 years of the project with somewhat more relaxed pre-
conditions for credit eligibility under which a greater number of
clients were incorporated into the credit program the recovery rate war
still above 90%.
1.42        Project performance in meeting quantifiable targets was
poor. The specific causes of poor performance were:
(a)   difficulty of establishing benefits at the oroducer level
caused by the:
sharecrooDina situation which prevented the cocoa and input
price benefits reaching the sharecropper or oparcelistam
because these benefits were not passed on by the civil
servant absentee owners and other large producers, who
controlled about 90% of Bioko's cocoa production;
failure to adoDt labor-savina technoloav improvements
because both owners and sharecroppers were largely reluctant
to change from the traditional application of Bordeaux
mixture to commercial chemicals to control Black Pod Rot;
failure to achieve Dredicted yield and farm area increaseo
in part caused by the failure of production and input price
benefits to reach the sharecropper, in part by the
unprecedented drop in world cocoa prices (para 1.42 (e) and
in part by labor constraints (para 1.42 (c);
(b)   risks to Droiect achievement through weak credit Performance
caused by the small number of potential credit clients who
were not already in default with other financial
inatitutions;
(c)   shortage of labor which was covered by a specific covenant.
GOEG did not facilitate the recruitment of off-island labor.
In part this was because the declining economic return of
cocoa prevented an adequate wage being justifiable but also
because the work permit fee of CFA franc 80,000 for foreign
labor was not rescinded by GOEG despite agreement to do so.
(d)   management trainina for counterDarts by the resident experts
did not have a direct impact on project management, but
clearly had positive results in terms of the institutional
development for the country. The National Project Director
was nominated Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture and subsequently Minister of Agriculture. The
national director selected for the last two years of project
implementation was given the position right after completing
his university degree in the United States and did not have
any previous managerial experience. It was clear that he
was not capable of assuming the role of Project Director in
the new more complex DICSA project and consequently he was
not selected for the job. Considerable training was,



- 11 -
however provided under the project in matters related to
cocoa production, accounting, bookkeeping, computer
operation, agricultural credit, etc.
(e)   Decline in cocoa prices the actual export value of cocoa
differed significantly from that forecast in the SAR.
First, the value of Bioko cocoa was over-stated in the SAR
for the start of the project in that the SAR considered it
to be trading at only a 3% discount compared to Ghana cocoa
(the industry standard). The SAR indicated that the
"quality discount" was equivalent to US$74/ton whereas in
fact the average discount was US$232/ton. Secondly, World
Bank projections (Sept. 1984) expected a 22% fall in prices
from US$2.17/kg to US$1.69/kg over the period 1985 to 1990,
followed by a slight rise to US$1.95/kg by 1995. I
reality, there was a 64% fall in price. by end-1990:
Despite the predicted fall in international prices, the SAR
anticipated an increase in average farmgate prices from the
equivalent of US$1.49/kg in 1985 to US$1.70 in 1990 (Current
US$) due to improved marketing efficiency and better quality
control. Despite improvements to cocoa quality achieved by
the project which reduced the rate of price decline, the
farmgate price paid to project beneficiaries nevertheless
ranged from the equivalent of US$1.56/kg in 1986/87 down to
only US$1.17/kg in 1990/91 (Current US$), significantly
lower for 1990/91 than envisaged in the SAR. These farmgate
prices would have been even worse if not for the STABEX
subsidies paid by the EEC from 1986 onwards. These
subsidies were not foreseen in the SAR; and
(f)   mismanagement of input supolv in the last two years of
project implementation by project management who purchased
inappropriate inputs, basic tools and equipment even in some
cases after the initial imported items were found to be un-
acceptable to local farmers. By the end of disbursement
(PY-6), about US$2 million (book value) of stock still
remained in the project's warehouses. It is important to
note that part of this stock was not procured under the
project, but it had been transferred from the CAMARA;
1.43        Bearing in mind the socio-political circumstances (paras.
2.2 and 2.3) under which the project was identified, prepared and
appraised, and the lack of Bank experience in Equatorial Guinea, the SAR
did not anticipate the full impact of any of the above factors on
project performance. The first factor could have been foreseen since
the evidence was present at the time of the preparation and appraisal
missions.
1.44        In summary, project risks with the exception of world cocoa
price decline were properly identified but their scale was in several
cases underestimated. As a result, adequate containment proved beyond
the preparation and appraisal missions' capabilities. Failure to
appreciate the scale of risks may have been related to the lack of prior
World Bank experience with Equatorial Guinea.
1.45        The project has had little real influence on long-term sub-
sector policy other than the experience and understanding gained through
commercial international cocoa trading and shipping and the
demonstration of the beneficial effects of strict cocoa grading on
export prices, which previous to the project was strictly under the
control of the commercial export companies run by expatriates.
Nevertheless, the danger exists that even this benefit could be lost if
the DICSA project is not managed correctly. Human resource development
has been limited to the benefits derived from technical training. The
benefits of the technical training are in danger of being dissipated



- 12 -
(see Project Sustainability). The time taken to establish suitable
candidates for managerial training and the insufficiency of the on-the-
job training provided by the TA team limited the effectiveness of
management training. The limited technical benefits derived from
improved disease control and drying cost reduction had not been adopted
by sufficient numbers of producers to be effectively maintained without
further extension effort. Project benefits resulting from improved
transportation have been apparent but are also in danger of being
limited to selected groups of producers. The impact of improved incomes
for cocoa producers has not materialized principally because of the
dramatic decline in cocoa prices but also because of the sharecropper
situation.
1.46        Notwithstanding the problems, the project should be
considered as first step for the rehabilitation of the country's cocoa
sub-sector. The project built from scratch a viable institutional and
operational framework, including credit, classification and marketing.
systems, which under more favorable circumstances, e.g. Malaysia, Ghana,
would have been largely present when such a project was initiated. With
the majority of project beneficiaries being smallholders, the project
had a distinct poverty focus.
G.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.47        Although credit, inputs supply and marketing services worked
reasonably well under the Project, it became apparent during project
implementation that these services could not be sustained without a
follow-on project. By the time of the mid-term review, the DICSA
project had been formulated in which it was argued strongly by the
Government that project management should pass to the national
counterparts with a technical assistance advisory team continuing to
counsel appropriate actions at the project and component level. Partly
because of the insufficient training (para. 1.42) and partly because of
the abrupt switch from a sub-ordinate to an executive role, national
project management is currently constrained and has been only partially
effective. A reasonable transition period should have been allowed for
in the first years of the DICSA project, with expatriate technical
assistance staff in joint executive roles with the national management
team. This latter arrangements was agreed with the Government during
the supervision mission of the project in March 1992.
1.48        Because the transfer of the technical agronomy unit (GAT)
from within the CRP to the national extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture has taken some time and still has not become effective, the
agronomic work on Black Pod disease and improved drying techniques
established during CRP has been largely dispersed and is in danger of
being lost altogether unless prompt steps are taken to utilize this
expertise in a more effective manner. Supervision missions of the DICSA
project have urged the Minister of Agriculture to take immediate steps
to resolve this situation. In addition, the small clonal and imported
cocoa variety plots established during the CRP have been abandoned since
the credit closing date.
1.49        Computer related expertise developed as aids to management
for credit operations and input inventory control has been dissipated as
has the actual data generated. The computer programs were prepared for
equipment which has since become obsolete and which was not transferred
to more up-to-date computers. In the case of agricultural inputs
inventory programs the training in their use was not successfully
transferred to national staff. In the case of the credit operations,
the national staff trained in the use of the computers programs left the
country, without training a replacement staff.
1.50        In summary, even with the operation of the DICSA project
there is a grave danger that even the benefits of the CRP will be lost



- 13 -
unless credit operational standards are re-established and maintained
and previously established lines of agronomic research are maintained.
H.    Bank's Performance
1.51        Protect concept and design.  The SAR-proposed project
concept was basically unsound in two major aspects. The widespread
practice of sharecropping on Bioko restricted the benefits from reaching
the producers. Even though the SAR acknowledged the land occupancy
changes that had taken place under the Macias regime, it did not
examine the implications of these changes. The second shortcoming in
project was the reliance on a relatively large credit component which
growth was over-optimistically forecast. But the early credit strategy
concerning the credit component of strict compliance with the pre-
conditions was justified given the history of credit in the country and
as the current credit situation demonstrates. The concerns over
institutional incapability were correctly founded, however the choice
was either: operate under the prevailing political conditions or
cancel/postpone the project. It still remains to be seen which of these
actions would have been the most appropriate.
1.52        Proiect Supervision.  The number of supervision missions was
high. In 1985 there were 4 supervision missions, in 1986 - 2, in 1987 -
1, in 1988 - 3 including the mid-term review, in 1989 - 3, and in 1990 -
4 (see Part III, Table 8). The supervision mission of October 1987
recognized the impact of the stringent credit pre-conditions and
implemented, with success, an accelerated programme of credit
disbursements in order to improve the ERR.
1.53        Because of staff changes caused by the reorganization of the
Bank, the mid-term review was conducted during the last two months of
1988, which was beyond the mid-point in time of the disbursement period.
The resetting of project targets at this juncture was too late to have a
major impact on results and the major purchase of inputs had already
been implemented, which in part resulted in insufficient reduction in
project costs in line with those forecasted by the mid-term review.
1.54        Considerable time and effort was expended by the World Bank
supervision staff to maintain the project under control and to adjust it
to the changed circumstances encountered. Operational guidance for
implementation of the project between supervision missions required
constant attention by Bank staff and occupied considerable time in
headquarters. More attention paid to details during supervision
missions may have produced better results in national staff training and
in input inventory control, but these are small details within an
extremely difficult (and constantly changing) country conditions and
operational environment which demanded continual supervision by World
Bank staff.
1.55        Better control over the staff training component concerned
with project management and tighter management of inputs could have been
exercised by stricter project supervision. Although problems in
inventory control were flagged during project supervision and noted in
aides memoire, implementation of recommendations were not fully
implemented and the follow-up that was required was not possible in the
light of more important and serious concerns which required the
attention of project supervision staff both during missions and in
headquarters. Slightly longer or flexible length project supervision
missions could have improved this situation.
1.56        Organization for Transition.  During the preparation and
appraisal for the DICSA project, the Bank planned an adequate period of
transition between the out-going technical assistance team and the
newly-appointed group. Considerable efforts were exercised by Bank
staff to ensure the timely contractual arrangements with the new



- 14 -
management consulting firm. Unfortunately due to delays in Government
negotiations with the consulting firm, and resignation of two of the
selected experts prior to taking on their new positions, the actual
overlap of teams was much less than planned. The Chiefs of Party and
credit experts were able to overlap by three weeks.
I.    Borrower's Performance
1.57        Early during preparation, the World Bank missions noted the
lack of commitment by GOEG staff for the project; it was thought mainly
because of lack of administrative skills. This was not further
commented on later, presumably because interest in the project increased
as preparation advanced.
1.58        The Borrower openly opposed the implementation of the
covenant concerning the import of foreign labor (Section 3.02 (d) of
Credit Agreement) as was noted in the supervision report of the January
1990 mission. This situation aggravated the serious labor shortage with
consequences already mentioned.
1.59        The Borrower had problems from 1988 onwards in providing
funds as agreed in the Credit Agreement (see Part III, Table 3). In
part, this was due to the difficult economic circumstances that all
basic commodity exporting economies faced during the last part of the
1980s, but was also due to lack of good financial management at the
highest levels of Government. This frequently put the project
administration in cash-flow difficulties. Even when STABEX funds were
assigned to the project in 1988 as Government's counterpart funds to the
project, these were not transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the
MOA and hence to the project.
1.60        The disbursement of the OPEC and BADEA funds also ran into
difficulties during the last 2-3 years of project implementation because
of the failure of GOEG to settle past dues with those institutions.
This had a negative impact on the financial management of the project
and required excessive management time to maintain liquidity.
J.    Proiect Relationship
1.61        The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good.
The relationship between the Bank and other cofinanciers was also good.
During the last two years of project implementation, however, the
Government showed a somewhat passive and at times indifferent attitude
to project management. The Borrower followed most of the guidance
provided by the Bank. In addition, arbitrary decisions by Government,
which jeopardized project implementation, such as utilization of credit
funds to purchase inputs outside project needs, did not meet with strong
resistance from project management. Bank staff had to act firmly to
ensure that credit funds were utilized for project purposes only. A
major concern of the Bank was the delay in providing GOEG counterpart
funds for support of the project and the effect that this had on other
disbursements and project cash-flow management.
K.    Consultina Services
1.62        Consulting services were to be financed under the IDA credit
and from the OPEC loan. At appraisal, these funds covered the provision
of 20 man years of long-term consultants services and 32 man months for
short-term consultancies. In the execution of the project 27.5 man
years (137% of SAR) of long-term consultancy and 6.7 man months (21% of
SAR) of ahort-term consultancies were provided. The long-term positions
were staffed as foreseen in the SAR except that by agreement with both
GOEG and the Bank the long-term positions for Project Director, Director



- 15 -
of the Credit Department and Marketing Expert were extended by several
months.
1.63        Short-term coneultancies were provided for: the cocoa drying
study in 1986; rodent control study in 1987; black pod control research
for short periods during 5 years; computerization and computer operation
training for short periods over 4 years; accounting assistance for short
periods over 4 years and for the IDEPA land distribution study in 1990.
In addition, an ODA-financed consultant worked in close collaboration
with GAT staff in black pod control for several weeks a year during
1988-1990.
1.64        The performance of the long-term consultants was mixed.
With the exception of the lack of perception concerning agronomic
practices, the initial years were better managed than the later 2 years.
This was because of changes in technical assistance staff. In
particular, the management of the stores of inputs, tools and equipment
was poorly handled and caused major cash-flow problems which have
carried forward to the DICSA. As early as August 1985, World Bank staff
noted irregularities and failure to follow the World Bank guidelines.
On the positive side, the management of the commercial trading, shipping
and quality control and credit aspects was performed to a higher level
of competence than anticipated. The latter deteriorated somewhat during
the last year of project implementation.
1.65        Quarterly and annual progress reports were punctual and
satisfactory. The final report by the consultants did not respond
entirely to requirements in that some comparisons that should have been
made with the SAR estimates were not made and itemized expenditure
compared to estimated expenditure were not shown.
1.66        There was a high degree of turnover among the long-term
consultants but given the living conditions and other circumstances
prevailing in Equatorial Guinea during the mid to late 1980s this is not
surprising. Individuals' performance varied considerably. At times,
the health of the expatriate staff was poor which added to many problems
facing the project. Several times, resident experts had to be evacuated
for medical emergencies, which could not be taken care in Equatorial
Guinea. Again, this had much to do with the circumstances existing
during the early project execution period, a situation which showed
dramatic improvement from 1988 onwards.
1.67        When consultancy professional fees went unpaid because of
problems with OPEC funds mentioned above, the consultant company
continued to operate from their own resources until reimbursement was
made from the proper source. As expected, the project was charged
interest fees.
L.    Protect Documentation and Data
1.68        All project documents (legal agreements and staff appraisal
report) were comprehensive and provided a useful framework for the Bank
and the Borrower during project implementation. They also provided
sufficient flexibility to project management to allow them to adapt to
changing conditions as they evolved.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower was sent Parts I and III of the PCR for comments.
However, despite several requests from the Bank, the Borrower has not provided
Part II.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose           Year of Approval       Status
1304-EG           Petroleum Sector T.A.       1982               Cancelled
1489-EG           Technical Assistance        1984               Under SPN
1548-EG           Cocoa Rehabilitation        1985               Closed
1690-EG           Rehabilitation Import       1986               Closed
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ Credit                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1797-EG           Primary Education           1987               Under SPN
2181-EG            Crop Diversification and   1990               Under SPN
Agriculture Services
l _________________  Project
2348-EG            Health Improvement         1992               Not yet
___________________________________________effective



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Item                 Date                Date           Comments
Planned"             Actual            (1)
- Identification       March 1980          January 1981
- Preparation          March 1982          February 1983       (a), (b),
.       ~~~(c)
- Appraisal            September 1983      June 1983           (a), (b)
- Post Appraisal       Feb/March 1984      Feb/March 1984
- Negotiation          December 1983       June 1984
- Board Approval       June 1984           February 1985
- Signature            July 1984           February 1985
- Effectiveness        December 1984       July 1985
- Com letion           December 1989       December 1990
- Closing              June 1990           December 1990
Notes
(1)   Issues raised:
(a)   Institutional weakness
(b)   Availability of Government funds
(d)   Political Interference



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement (SDR Million)
ESTIMATE                             ACTUAL                    Percentage
IDA      FISCAL YEAR           QUARTER           DISBURSEMENT        CUMULATIVE      DISBURSEMENT       CUMULATIVE        ACT/EST;
(cuuLat ve)
1985                  4                  1.7               1.7
1986                  1                  0.3               2.0               0.86               0.86             9.5
2                 0.8               2.8               0.84               1.70            18.7
3                 0.1               2.9               0.04                1.74           19.2
4                  -                2.9               0.50               2.24            24.6
1987                  1                  0.5              3.4                0.70               2.94           32.3
2                  1.0              4.4               0.56               3.50            38.4
3                 0.4               4.8                0.25              3.75            41.2
4                                   4.8                0.28              4.03            44.3
1988                  1                  0.6               5.4               0.22               4.25           46.7
2                  1.1              6.5               0.35               4.60            50.5
3                 0.4               6.9               0.30               4.90            53.8
4                 0.1               7.0               0.22               5.12            56.3
1989                  1                  0.4               7.4               0.41               5.53            60.8
2                 0.8               8.2               0.23               5.76            63.3
3                 0.3               8.5               0.71               6.47            71.2
4                  -                8.5                1.54              8.02            88.1
1990                  1                  0.2              8.7                0.65               8.67           95.3
2                 0.4               9.1               0.22               8.89            97.8
3                  -                -                 0.11               9.00            98.9
4                  -                 -                 0.09              9.10            100.0



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
B. IDA Allocation as per Credit Aareement
At Credit    ---------------SDR Equivalent---------
Agree.
Category             Feb.28    Feb.11   Aug. 27    Sept. 27    Jan. 09
'85       '87        '88          88          '90
1. Civil Works                350,000               750,000     870,000      840,000
2. Vehicles & Equipment       390,000               850,000   1,600,000   1,900,000
3. Training &                 350,000               350,000     580,000      580,000
Consultants' Services
4. Technical Assistance    1,270,000              1,270,000  1,600,000   1,500,000
5. Salaries of local          300,000               300,000    840,000       760,000
staff and operating
costs of ACD, CAMARA and
CMPCU
6. Imported agricultural   4,280,000              3,780,000  2,400,000   2,400,000
inputs and equipment for
Credit in Kind
7. Credit in Cash             350,000               750,000     160,000      135,000
8. Initial Deposit            100,000               185,000     180,000      180,000
9. Refund of PPF Advance      930,000               765,000     766,000      766,000
10. Unallocated               780,000               100,000     104,000       39,000
Total                       9,100,000             9,100,000  9,100,000   9,100,000
a/  The percentage to be financed by IDA for 1985, 1986 and 1987 was
altered to 100%, for 1988 to 60% and for 1989 to 25%.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EOUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 4: Pro-ect Implementation
Characteristic              SAR       Mid-term         Project         % SAR
Revision       Completion
No. of farmers incorporated        565           600             397          70.2
Coverage of project (ha)         7,550        3,000            3,273          43.3
of which: intensified (ha)       3,715        2,700            3,023          81.4
rehabilitated    3,835            300             250           6.5
(ha)
Average yield (kg/ha) at           611           550             380          62.2
PY6
Project production - PY6        4,610         1,650            1,600          34.7
(ton)
Cost of credit operations            7.5           N.A.            4.6W       61.3
(US$ million)
Total Project Cost                  16.2           N.A.           12.44F      77.0
(Actual USS million) incl.
inflation and taxes
a/ Including about USS 2.0 million in stores inventory.
b/ Only 12% of the BADEA loan was disbursed because of suspension of
Asbursements by BADEA for all EQG loans due to lack of payment of
arrears by the Government.



- 22 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABI LITATION PROJECT
(Credit 154U-EG)
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financina
A.  Prolect Costs
(USS'mitlion)
-----AppraisaL Estimate -----    ---------Actual--------
Locat     Foreion      Total     k2al   Forein    Total
Institution Building (IB9.)
BCD                               0.4         1.1         1.5       0.5        1.3        1.8
CAMARA                            0.5         1.4         1.9       0.6        1.5        2.1
MOA                               0.2         0.9         1.1        0.2       1.2        1.4
PPF                               010         0 2                  -0.2                   0 2
Sub-Total Instit. BuiLding        1.1         3.6         4.7        1.3       4.2        5.5
Credit                                 1.7        5 9A 7 6                                    L2
Base Costs                             2.8        9.5        12.3        1.6       7.8        9.4
Physical Contingncies                  0.2        1.0         1.3        0.1       0.6        0.7
Price Contingencies                    0.7        2 0         L2         0.4       J.9 2
Sub-Total Base Costs                   0.9        3.0         4.0        0 5       2.5        3.0
TotaL Project Costs                    3.7       12.5        16.2        2.1      10.3       12.4



- 23 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 5: Prolect Costs and Financing
B. Proiect Financing
(USS'OOO)
----------- Appraisat PLan---       ------      ------------------Actuat----
IDA    BADEA   OPEC    EEC   GOV      TOTAL      IDA      BADEA   OPEC    EEC   GOV    TOTAL
1.  CiviL Works                      358           1,000                    358       858                                      858
2. VehicLes and Equipment            399                                    399      1,932                                   1,942
3. Training and Consultancy
Services                         358                                    358       593                                      593
4. Technicat Assistance            1,289                                  2,298      1,533            1,000                  2,533
5. Locat Sataries and
Operating Costs                307                            800   1,107       777                             820    1,597
6. Agriculturat Inputs and
Equipment                   4,374                                   4,374     2,453                                    2,453
7. Credit                            358    2,800           900  1,400   5,458         138      334            900   100    1,472
8.  Initiat Deposit                  102                                    102        184                                     184
9. PPF Advance                       950                                    950       m                                        783
10. Unaltocated                     797                                     797        40                                       40
Subtotal                      9,300    2,800  1,000    900  2,200  16,200       9,280       334   1,000    900   920   12.435



- 24 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Results
Estimated SAR                  Mid-Term               Actual
Number of Participating Farmers               565.0
600.0              397.0
Coverage (ha)                               7,500.0                                       3,273.0
3,000.0        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Average YieLd (kg/ha)                         611.0                                         374.0
550.0                                l
Average Farmgate Price (USS/kg)                                                               0.87
(Constant 1985 prices)                          1.048                    N/A                                  l
Farm Size (ha)
6.0                        3.5                3.8
-Small cooperative                             28.0                       10.0                6.8
-Small independent                            150.0                       50.0               33.7
-Medium                                      300.0                       100.0              105.3
-Large                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Gross Sates Revenue (USS)                                                                                     l
-SmaLL cooperative                         3,729.0                       N/A              1,306.0
-Small independent                        17,401.0                       N/A              1,674.0
-Medium                                  139,908.0                       N/A             13,135.0
-Large                                   256,236.0                       N/A             30,781.0
Credit Disbursements                       4,610.0 j/                    N/A                443.0 31
(Actual USS'000)                                                                                _
Credit Related Inport Programme             2,668.0 _/                   N/A                884.0 4/
(Actual USS'000)
N/A. Not available
/  Estimated SAR data from SAR Annex 3-2.
/ Actual data from Landell Mills Final Report, Table 9.
/  Estimated SAR data from SAR Annex 6-2 A-D.
/ Actual data from Import records for 1990.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 6: Proiect ResuLts
B. Economic Impvact
SAR Estimate                Mid-Term                      Actuat
44%                ~~~~4% V                     -1%
1/ The mid-term report stated that an ERR of 28% could be anticipated for the remaining of expenditures and estimated benefits
if it was assumed that the expenditures prior to the mid-term were "sunk costs".
C.  Basic Assumptions of Economic Imvact
Opportunity Cost of                  13.5
CapitaL (%)
Project Life (Yrs)                                                        20.0
Hired Labour rate                     1.5                                  1.11
(USS/day) 1
Price projections             mid-1984                                  1985
Cocoa projections             mid-1984                    Actual + WS 1991 projections
Benefit attributed to                                                    560.0
Project Stocks (FCFA
milLion) 2
Notes:
I/ Official daily rate FCFA 1,500 or USS555.
For actuaL ERR calcuLations, 20% of officiaL used (see Annex 1).
/ Value given to stock in inventory at end PY-6 not required for continuation of project.
Additional assumptions for actual ERR calcuLations are:
-       40% of value of TechnicaL Assistance and Staff Training deducted from project costs as deemed investment In future
projects.
-        incremental value of non-project exported cocoa deemed as project benefit due to industry-wide benefit of project
grading and quaLity control.
'd



- 26 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 7: Compliance with Leaal Covenants
Section          Status                Description of Covenants                       Comments
2.02      complied with (CW)    PromptLy after effective date repay    Outstanding amount repaid in
(b)                              from credit amount Project                fuLL
Preparation Advance outstanding as
of such date.
2.04               CW            The cLosing date shall be June 30,        By telex of 01/11/90 closing
1990 or such Later date as IDA shaLL   date extended to 12/31/90.
establish.                               Credit cLosed at that date.
3.01       CW (initial           Deposit in the Project Account an         Required amount deposited.
(b)       deposit) not           initial deposit equivalent to            Replenishment done
complied with         USS40,000 and replenishment               irregularly due to treasury
(NCW) (regular        regularly thereafter ensuring that       problems; balance of
replenishment)        amount equal to at Least 3 months of   remaining funds of CFAF 79
project's expenditures is available    million not yet paid as of
as of first of each cuarter.             02/28/91.
3.01               NCW           Budget annually sufficient                Although budget allocations
(c)                              counterpart funds to meet project's    are being made funds are not
capital and operating costs and          forthcoming in time due to
furnish to IDA not later than            treasury problems (see
January 01 in each year evidence         above).
that such budgetary allocations have
been made.                               _
3.02               CW            Employment of a management team of        Management team transferred
(2)                              qualified internationally recruited    responsibilities to
consultants to assist borrower in        counterpart staff; last
project implementation.                  members of team left mid-
February 1991.
3.02               NCW           Borrower to facilitate recruitment        Borrower openly opposed to
(d)                              of cocoa plantation workers from         employ expatriate cocoa
overseas and furnish evidence            plantation workers and
satisfactory to IDA not later than       harassing the few ones who
06/30/85 that such measures have         are still working in cocoa.
been taken
3.09               CW            Furnish to IDA quarterly reports on    Reports prepared in time and
(b)                              project progress and yearly an           generally of good quality.
annual report. Draft PCR to be           Draft PCR due not later than
submitted six months after project       06/30/91.
closing date.
4.01               CW            Audit of Special Account and Project   Audit report for FY89 some 9
(c)                              Account for each FY by independent       months late, due to delay in
auditors, and certified copy of the    closing the project accounts.
audit report to be furnished to IDA
not later than June 30 in each year.
4.03               CW            Borrower furnish to IDA for its          Under DICSA credit agreement
approval not later than January 31       (section 4.02) new date set:
in each year a formula for the           not later than May 31 in each
establishment of cocoa producer's        year.
prices, and promptly thereafter
establish and put into effect these
prices in accordance with formuLa
approved by IDA.
4.04               CW            Review of adequacy of credit             Under DICSA credit agreement
interest rate by borrower and IDA        (section 4.03) new date set:
not later than January 31 in each        not later than April 30 in
year, and rates to be adjusted if so   each year.
required and recommended.



-27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1548-EG)
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staffweeks)
TO
TASK                  PVS0   FM    FM2   FYM  PF'84   FM    P3   FV   FYU   FY9   FM    FM91             2   TrtAL
prpnrfs                        2.7  11.8  t2.9  15.1    --                 --               9. --    -- __9
Apraisa__                                         16.4  56.5   0.              -- --.    --    -                --     7.3
N.Godatiaw/ oa                         - a- --                   7.2                               --    --    --    27.2
Lon Procssinf  (LU)            0.1   0.1   2.4   6.4   6.1  11.7    --    -                                            26.8
MA-tov&L                    2.1  8.9  15.3  37.9  62.6  39.3   0.0    .a0  0.0           0.0   0.0   0.Q0 O. .    176.1
pwvmfsian                       - -          --    3-    - '      8  20.1  14.5  26.5  12.1    9.7   6.3    --    93.2
Proj.c,t Adufnfstrat1on (PAc)                                    0.4   1.4   0.J   0.3    ._    __    __                2.9
Proj.cv CoapLe:fsn 3trt                      -- --    --    -- -_    .  ._                              0.3   0.3      0.8
____ ---- ____                ___. _ _....   .. __.._____ .___ ____.... ....   --    --    .....
S-toaL                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.o   4.2  21.5  15.3  26.1  12.1    9.7   7.0   0.3    96.9
TOTAL                       2.8  18.9  15.3  37.9  62.6  43.5  21.5  15.3  26.8  12.1   9.7   7.0   0.3   273.7
_       -- _   _-    _      _      _-       



- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITAT1IN PROJECT
(Crei 1t 4-
Tabte 8:   Use of Bank Resources
S. Missions (Staff and Consultants)
Missions             Date       Number of Persons      Deyu in        Peror  enc        Type of
_letd R__a                     Prebtejs
Recomnaissance           Nov. 79                    2 A,E            14
Pre-identification       Jan 80                      2A.E             7
Identification           Mar. 80                    2 A,E            14
Jan 81                  3 A.A.E             14
Preparation              June 81                      1 E             7
Nov_  81                   2 A.E             7
PPF, TR Prep             Dic. 81                      1 E             7
Feb. 82                      lE              7
June 82                      1E              5
Oct. 82                      1E             21
Dec. 82                      lE              5
Feb. 83                      1A              5
Aowraisal                May 83                4 AAfE.E             21
Post-appraisal           Feb. 84                 3 A Af,E            11
June 84                     A,E              6
Aug. 84                      1 E            10
Oct. 84                      1A             10
Supervision              1 Jan. 85                    1 A            14                  2              M
2Apr. 85                     1A             14                  1
3JuL.85                      1A              7                  1
4Octo.85                     1A              7                 2              M
5May  86               3 A,Af,E              7                 2              M
6Sep. 86                   2 A,E             7                 2              M
7Sep. 87               3 A,Af,E             21                  1
8Feb. 88                  2 Af,A            21                 2              M
9July 88                3 A,E,A             21                  1
10 Oct 88          5 Af,A,E C M            28                  1
11 Mar 89                   i Af            12                 1 
12May 89                 2 Af,E            21                  2              M
13 Nov 89                2 A Af             7                  2              M
14 Jan 90                    i A             7                 2              M
15 Mar 90                    1 A            14                 2              M
16 Jun 90                2 Af,A             14
17 SeP 90                 2 Af,A            14
18Feb 91                     1 A             7
Notes:  Preparation was carried out under a PPF and several short-term visits were made by staff from Headquarters
and from Abidjan office during 1982 to supervise and review progress.
Many supervision missions also supervised the TA project and other activities on field, but time considered
in the chart was estimated just for CRP (Cocoa Rehabilitation Project).
Key to Fxpertise:
A = Agriculturalist; Af   Financial Analyst; E = Economist;
M = Trading Specialist ; C = Credit Specialist
Key to Performance Status:
1 a Problem free of minor problems
2 = Moderate problems
Key to Type of problems:
M = Managerial; T = Technical



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
- 29 -
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The quantified objective of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
(PCR) was the incremental production and export of cocoa from Equatorial
Guinea of 4,600 tons (in project year 12) of which 3,640 tons was to be
achieved  in year  6  (1991)  of  the project.   These  objectives,  now
considered extremely optimistic in view of the problems indicated in Part
I of this report, would have been difficult to achieve even in the case
where the aforementioned problems might have been overcome, due to the
actual evolution of international prices mince 1988.
1.2         The evaluation  presented  in this  annex  is based on the
comparison between the situation resulting from the implementation of the
project with that which would have existed without the project. The costs
involved in project execution and the resultant incremental benefits have
permitted the estimation of the economic results obtained as a consequence
of project implementation.
II. WITH PROJECT SCENARIO
Prices
2.1         The SAR-estimated  cocoa prices were based on World Bank
projections published in 1984, which indicated a fall of 22% in
international cocoa market prices up to 1990. In reality, the actual fall
in prices was 64% (in real terms) lowering the prices obtained in 1990 and
1991 to 50% of the SAR-estimated value for those years (Table 1). As a
consequence of this fall in prices and under the situation of the project,
the economic farmgate price of dried cocoa was reduced from CPAF 741 in
1985 to CFAF 159 in 1990, losing 79% of its value.
2.2         At the level of financial or market prices, the decline was
less because of the drastic reduction of internal taxes which were applied
to exports in Year 0 and by the availability of funds to subsidize the
producer price,  financed by STABEX funds from the EEC.   The fall in
financial prices was from CFAF 500 to CFAF 250, a reduction of 50% (Table
2).
2.3         The producer price fixed for this campaign (1992/93) is CFAF
255, which is a marginal recovery from the previous year (CFAF 230).
2.4         The Government of Equatorial Guinea has agreed that starting
with the 1993/94 campaign, the producer price of cocoa will not be
subsidized, but will be determined by international price levels.
Considering recent World Bank projections, this would represent a further
reduction of the producer price to approximately CFAF 226.
2.5         Table 1 gives economic prices (net of taxes and subsidies)
derived from international prices prevailing in 1991, and those which
would result from World Bank projections of February 14, 1992.  These
prices have been used to evaluate the benefits for the with and without-
project situations.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
- 30 -
Area Harvested
2.6         On the Island of Bioko, 19,000 ha of cocoa were in production
in project Year 0 (1985), and declined slowly to approximate-y 16,400 ha
in 1988 due to the fall in producer prices from CFAF 500 to CFAP, 300 per
kg of dried cocoa. Since 1988 the decline has accelerated; the area iu
estimated at 11,500 ha now and at 9,000 ha by the next campaign (1993/94).
Costs and Benefits
2.7         Table 2 shows the costs and benefits that would have been
generated by the project. Included in the benefits is the value of cocoa
produced by project clients and non-project producers; as well as the
residual value of investments made by the project (houses, tractors,
agricultural inputs etc.). As can be seen in Table 3, at the level of
economic prices, the project had a favorable effect which represented a
reduction in the discount (for poor quality), which had been applied prior
to the project to Equatorial Guinea cocoa and which was reduced from CFAP
104 to CFAP 37, benefitting all cocoa exported from Bioko.
2.8         Production costs were valued on the basis of the shadow price
of labor estimated at 20% of market rate, which takes into consideration
that no alternative employment exists, at least in the short-term, in
Bioko where the cocoa project is located.
2.9         Technical Assistance and Local Personnel Training costs were
discounted by 40% taking into consideration that these costs represent an
investment- which will be beneficial to other projects, such as the on-
going Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project, being
Implemented with financing from IDA, IFAD, BADEA, and OPEC.
2.10        The  cash  flow  resulting  from  the  with-project  cocoa
production, shows that in the 1989-90 cocoa campaign, the value of cocoa
produced was less than its direct costs of production. The collapse of
the cocoa industry did not occur because these deficits were covered in
part by subsidies financed by STABEX funds.
III. WITHOUT PROJECT SCENARIO
Prices
3.1         Table 1 also shows the estimation of economic and market
prices, which presumably would have occurred in the without-project
situation. The fall in economic prices at the farmgate level would have
been greater than under the with-project sLtuation, because, in this
instance, the system of classification and quality control established by
the project, would not have been put into operation and consequently, the
quality discounts used for year 0 would have been maintained.
Area Harvested
3.2         As a consequence, the area under production in future years
instead of being 9,000 ha, would be only 4,000 ha, and the resulting cocoa
exports 2,200 tons annually instead of 4,600 tons which is expected with
the effects achieved by the project.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
- 31 -
Costs and Benefits
3.3         The cost/benefit stream for the without-project situation is
summarized in Table 4. The negative balances in economic terms for the
years 3 through 7 (1988-1992) would also have been covered by the
subsidies from STABEX funds. Since then, the negative balances would show
that farmers received less than CFAF 300 per man day worked, as was valued
in the costs of production.
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
4.1         The project did not have the expected quantitative results
(para 10), among other reasons because the international prices fell to
less than half the real value assumed in the SAR. In consequence, more
than comparing the results obtained with the without project situation in
Year 0, or using the without-project hypothesis assumed in the SAR, the
ex-post evaluation tries to analyze the cocoa production results compared
to what would have occurred in Equatorial Guinea without the project,
within the framework of the fall in prices previously mentioned and
without the discount reduction (for poor quality) achieved by the project.
4.2         Table  5 shows the net  cash  flow resulting  from such a
comparison. The project implementation costs has been concentrated in the
first 6 years (1985-1990).  A residual value of 2 million dollars was
assigned to the assets transferred in 1991 to the IDA-financed Crop
Diversification and Agricultural Services Project.
4.3         Table 6 estimates the ERR of the project, using the difference
in cash flows between the with and without-project situations.   The
resulting value falls between -1% and + 2% depending on whether project
benefits are evaluated over 20 or 25 years. In other words, even assuming
an opportunity cost of invested capital of 0, it would require between 15
and 20 additional years (until 2005 or 2010) to recover these. The SAR
had estimated an ERR of 44% assuming a constant production without-project
conditions represented by Year 0.
4.4         To appreciate the impact of the decline in international
prices on the project, an estimation has also been made of the results
which would have been obtained by the project in the case where the
international prices prevailing were those indicated in the SAR. In this
case, the production areas would have been maintained in around 16 to
18,000 ha. Even so, bearing in mind that the established objectives would
not have been achieved, mainly because of land tenure problems and the
shortage of agricultural labor in Bioko, nevertheless the ERR would have
been 21% as a consequence of the impact achieved by the smaller quality
discounts received as a result of the project.



COOOA REHABMJTATION PROJECT
MiO.ECT COMLET0N  PMT
OOCOA ECONOUIC POCE ESMMAlION
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -._ -_.--  -   - - -  -   - - - - - - - -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - ---'------ROifIED-.--.
aaaaaaa - -aaa -  - --  a   RIA - ------  W- -- -  wwm - a    n        IflCIF)W    a      
urn    tuns1 isi.   1rn    urn  10               lot    tern    u        1164   Iwo
I., AClUAL PRCES              -  - -    ..                   . __g           ........... .._              ...   _
inclmiU  sl1u(i)               2Z      176      15      114      90      87     so        7      00       2      W3          1
inu curuLIms                   225     207      196     156    124      127     12D     133     143     f2      16O         210
It. PRlOJECTED AT SAR
hincumntUSc 9(IOS)             ON      127      lea     175    172    In        174     179     184    In       le           164
h ic"odusas196U)              207    10      182      177    174      171     176    11      187     112   16           1U7
HI. PROJEGIED IN 162
b enl U111                                                                              133     143    1i2      I0          210
h, aHwm  uBog wi    )                                                                     7 U            s0  1   m           S
IV. ACTUALI PROJECTED
AT OAR    1.10       M4    0.08    0.65   0.52    0.51    0.45    0.48    0.46   0.48   0.48            0.65
V. ACUL   (rL mawaniLb-       - 225       7 -    Is      III    124    127    120
PrfOVWT      Inlo                                                                     133    103      121    134           146
EXCH. RATE (CFAF/ISSI         449      341     301     26    319    270        210    260    260    260    260              260
CIF (current CFAFI 1/        IO0       71i     5       471      s     4 343  3n         72     366    3        37           40
---- ___-----------------------  VI. WITH PROJECT (CFAF/KG) 1/ --------                                          --r -----
Lo"FfIEK3-ff &t                43       46      46      43      41      37      30      30      30      30      30          30
La" QULITY DIFEF              104       67      72      60      44      37      37      37      37      37      37          37
FOUMASO                        S0       Got    482      378    311      20      206    305      31      314      0          341
Lo" POfliT 1   UES              17i     17      17      17      17      17      17      17      17      17      I7           17
La  Of EIf4C fPIMAS            lOS     100     100    lao    100        ma      88      75      76      75      75          75
FARM 13ATE  OON. PF4CE         741      464    365    261    194    169    167    213    22             222    217          249
TAES/9=F9DE9                 -241      -14      363                                     42       0       0       0 
FAIN SAM MAIWETPIUCE             500     450     400     300    300    250       230    255      22      222    217          249
_____________________________.   VlI. WITHOUT PROJECT (CFAF/KG) 1/  --------------------
La"FREa 3T-fr&aS               40      40       40      46      41      45     4U       40      40      45      46          46
LoseQUAUs  Y OFffER           104     104      104     100       5      Oa      80      75      76      76      76          75
f O UN-&AO                     am      564     447      323    253    200       206    240    326       251    253          285
LuuPORTChUAGES                 17       17      17      17                                      17 17  17  17  17    1717
Lo.stFERENCfFOAS              100     100      10      100   1to       93      85       93      76      75     75           75
FARM GATEEOON.Pf'CE             741    447    330    26    136            90    106    140    170    166    161              183
.          . . ...... . ............-- . .... ........................
TAXE8JLE5DEI                -241    -14        5       39  1          51      6        42       0      0       0            a
FARM OAThMAIWKEPrICE             600     433     365     245    242      151    1a      162     170    166    161           193
__  - --- - -- -- ------- ----- -----            --  _____---   ___________________________0____________--
11 Pc.s kV 1002M= We  *el at fxa muaXuhv*u                                                                                                           s



COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WITH PROJECT
000 CFAF
Scale facter . o.301000
*---u-m.--------------...um--------.u---.u---..--r-u--------------U-----------U-UU--U----uE--UU----------a-------U---------.U.U.......u... SWU
25,3j19192
Year         3        I        2        3        4        5                7        *        *      13       ii       12       13  14-20
................................    .................... .......................................................................................
WEmi                                                                                                                                                                          I
COCOA (OF                          0.0   135.5      W.5   134.3   202.3   251.7   425.1   442.7   431.2   481.2  .411.2   500.5   S19.7   529.4   529.4
COCOA                           399.4  2702.0  2sso.7  1146.4    131.7   S.5   420.1  436.2   559.3    O.S  s9.7   11.2   612.5   649.0   63.44
SALVAOE COSIS                      0.3      3.0      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  560.3        .0-       0.0     .0       *.     e.g      0.0      0.        .
P~IjnMOSIS                     -200.0  -603.2  -747.4  -740.5 -1150.1 :1464.2  -143.5            0.0      3.0      0.3     0.0      e.g      0.0      0.0      0.0
raI.cOSIu (luiull.OIUliEI Pm)     43.8   100.       640.0   120.4   100.0   100.3    36.0         0.0      3.0      .                04 .     0.0      0.0       . 0
1UN1iNO COSIS                      0.0      3.0      0.0  a,  0        0.       0.3  -100.0  -100.0  *100.O  -100.0  :10.    100.4  -100.0  *100.0  -100.0
OWE3AIIo  callS               -1951.4 -2032.4 -1482.0 -1179.5 *126.6 -1254.0 -1014.9  -SS.0  -159.1  -86.7  -146.   *6.1  -066.7  -664.7  -866.7
SUa-O.IAL                 _254.6 -2569.4-20.0 -2336,9                                     4*966.1  -966.?  -966.7  -966.7  -*?66.
133117.6   297.7   38.3  -519.4 -1295.5 -1313.0   111.0   *26.1    30.3   125.1   111.1   147.I   135.6   211.7   247.4
Ln 2:
Z
0  |



COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
QUAUTY DIFFERENTIALS IN COCOA 1984-1990
(CFAF/Kg)
AVERAGE   Y__-_----- YEAR  --_-_____---
84185    85/B        YEAR 0      1         2        3         4        5
1. EXPORTS BY GIADE          .................. ..... PERCENT ......
GiOOD FERMENTED         41        17        29       49        47       80       91        90
EAIR FERMENTED          27        54      40.5       36        43       19        9        10
9 STANDARD              32        29      30.5       15        10        1
-.------.--------------------...-....-........-..--.CFAF/Kg *.....................................................
2. FORFAIT
GOOD FERMENTED                             105      103        95       85       80        65
FAIR FERMENTED                             145      143       120      110      105        85
f STANDARD                                 205      203       190      170
3. FREIGHT & INS.                            48       45        43       41        37       30
4. QUALITY DIFFERENTIAL
G00D FERMENTED                             57        58       52        44       43       35
IAIR FERMENTED                             97        98       77        69       68       55
F STANDARD                                 157      158       147      129
5. WEIGHTED OUAUIY DIFFERENTIAL             164       87        72       50        45       37
0 
oQ
olT
" X4
%io 1



COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WITHOUT PROJECT
000 CFAF
Scate fator I *.0 1080
2SII/1992   Ycar  *    1        2        1         4        5        *9                                  to       11        12       11   1-2
. ................. ..................................... ............... ................................ .................... ....................................... ......................... ..................... 
WbCiluftoi0IPOEI            39.       62    2643.3   588.2   443.5   252.1   229.0   232.4   36.4.   332.6   354.2   367.4-  332.3   396.6   424.6
S-OlTCRAL                             2612.6  2643.3    51.2   446.6   252.0   229.0   232.4   104.0   332.6   354.2   367.4   302.3   396.0   424.6
B ltAI10SLII  -1917.7 -19SS.5 -1624.3 -1046.6  *640.4  -753.l  .566.1  -361.6  -316.5  -391.5  -396.5  -396.S  -396.5  -396.5  -396.5
SUB-IBlAI.                  -1911.7  *195   *1p2.I -1043.6  -6404  -153.1  -56.3  *363.B  -366.5  -391.5 -39.   -396.5   )4                                   1
MEIT CASE F C1
tt CASN FL  nq              2084.1   674.1   *11.5  -I60.3  -191.6  -501.1  -3317.4  -1S6.6   -06.5   -59.5   42.3   -29.1   -13.7    -O.S                      23.1
OQ
m
0h X
-.12



COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WITH VS. WITHOUT CRP
000 CFAF
Scoet lacier I 6.801M0
25i3j1992
Veer         *       I  s     2        3        4       S        6       7        6        9      10       11      12       13   14*20
.............................................. ............................................................... ....... ................................ 
COCOA Ctl                         6.6  I1S.S    99.5   114.3   202.5   251.7   425.1   442.7   411.2   411.2   41l.2  S.5   519.7   529.4   S29.4
COCOA                          3998.4  2102.8  2858.7  1346.4  A83.7   SS.5   420.8   456.2  S59.1   611.5   596.7  11.2   612.S   49.0   654.7
ocoC  UlloIpa  pmolicr       -199A.4 -2632.8 -2643.1  -58a.2  -445.3  *252.6  -229.0  -212.4  -316.0  .312.0  *35;.2  -37.4  -182.8  -196.0  -424.6
SALVACI (ASIS                     0.4      S.      0.0      0.6      0.8      6       0.4 56.6      6.0 6.0     6.       8.6         6.6  8.      0     .6           4..,
SUI-IOIAI.                        0.0   265.4   114.9   592.4   592.6   556.2  1171.0   6926.5   734.6   759.1   723.8   146.1  769.4   782.    759.
JQLAL C1U
PROJECT costs                  -200.0  -60U.2  -747.4  -740.5 -1150.1 -1464.2  -141.5          0.0      o.6 O     .8 o O o       o        6.6     6.5      6.4
IM.COSIS lItUff.aE lfe pt)       41.6   104.6    60.0   120.    100.6   10.1    36.0           0.0      6.6     6.6      6.6 'C   . C.o            0.0     0.0
llUIIHIi coss                     0.0      6.0      0.8     0.0      6.6      5.8  -100.0  -100.0  -160.0  -100,6  -100.6   ISO:a  -100.8  -100.0  -100.0
Oe3IA1119 COSIS                 -36.2   -n3.c   *5s.2  -n31.0  -444.3  -560*9  -s5.s  -472.6  -4n.  -42s.1  -410.1  o4)1   -4yo.I  -47 .1  -470.1
CASH fLOW                      -193.2  -376.6  -424.7  -359.1   90.6 .-13.9   454.6   124.6   161.]   184.6   153.7   171.2   19".1   212.2   219.4
U
OQ
0
Iz
'0 tx-



COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLEllON REPORT
PROJECT RESULTS
(MILLION CFAF)
1985  1088  1987  1988  1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  199  I 1999
PROJECT CASH FLOW
IncurrenltMLLIda 1/    -1932  -377  -425  -359  -004  -1309   458  1246  1813  104.  153.7  176;2  1993  212.2  219.4.
IRR(UNT3LYEAR 20),. -11%
IRR (INTL YEt.fl 2  *   2%
Aonsuae  PiceIng2ex              1.    1.04    1.043  0.096   1.031   0.99
PROJECT CASH FLOW
In 1985 MILL lafa 1/    -1932 -376.5 -4048 -3282 -82205 -1164.9  409.9  112.0  145,0  1651  1381  158.4  179.2  1900  1972
IRR(UNiTLYEAFi20 * - 1%
IRR (UNTL YEAR25) *   2%
__________--.-_--- ----_--_____ _.______
1 I AFTER 19l1, CON8TANT 1I91 PflICES A8E ASSUMED
21 SOUiCE : IMF
0 X
voQ






- 39 -                             Attachment 1
(Page 1 of 3)
COMMENTS FROM EEC
COMISION DE LAS COMUNIDADES EUROPEAS
U           DELEGACION EN LA REPUBLICA DE GUINEA ECUATORIAL
N. 946/92                                 Malabo,le 9.1o.1992
ZQ          WORLD BANK - BETTY HANAN AF 1 AG
Agriculture division , Africa Dpt.
N'FAX       20Z  4i4 25 2+
FRQM         R. LEENDERS - EEC Head of Delegation Malabo
SUBJECT   s Cocoa Rehabilitation project - CR 1548 - Er
Comments on the PCR
'Y/Letter of 9.22.92
Thanks for sending the PCR to us   Please find here
next my comments which I would be glad to discuss largly
with you and Bronkhorst during your next visit
1- In order to garantee the constant availability of
chemical inputs for the sector , the project could
have built up a revolving fund starting with the
initial cofinancing of the EEC ( 0,9 M US $ )
2- The initial CRP study has stated as a basic
criteria that the large producers are a constraint
impeding the sharecroppers to benefit from the cocoa
production . It would have been wiser , instead of
marginalising these large producers , to involve and
control them completely in the rehabilitation program,
on the base of well defined rules and obligations.
The over-estimation of the EG public sector's ability
to implement big scale projects (at EG scale) has not
been  sufficiently  pointed  out  by  the  mid-term
evaluation mission . Even the structure of the new
DICSA project is built to reinforco the para-public
cocoa sector , and marginalise the private sector
This is in contradicton with the support given by the
International Organizations to the private sector ,
knowing the important role this sector has to play in
the recovery of the economy of a country
ENDERS
EEeiiSD OF DELEGATION



- 40 -                                  Attachment 1
(Page 2 of 3)
COMMENTS FROM BADEA
2148423 WtORLDBANK
TLX NO G/1023/9'
Du      21-10-92
ATT.: MRS. BETTY HANAN
AuRIC. DIV. OCCIDENTAL AND
CENTRAL AFRICA DEPARTMENT
THE WORLD BANK
TLX.: 248423 WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON D.C.7 - U. S. A.
SUBJECT:  COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT7 EQUlUATORIAL GUINEA
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PROJECT COMPLETION REFORT WHICH WAS CAREFULLY
EXAMINED BY US (STOP) WE AGREE THAT THE PROJEC,T HASi FACEDI MANY
PROBLEMS DURING ITS EXECUTION IN ADDITION TO THE DECLINE IN
INTERNATIONAL COCOA MARKET PRICE (STOP) DESPITE BADEA'S CONTINUED
EFFORTS TO SPEED UP PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INCLUDING AMENDMENT
OF ANNEX ''A'' (LIST OF GOODS AND SERVICES FINANCED BY BADEA)i
GOVT. OF E.O. GUINEA ENDEAVORS-,- RESOLVE ARREARS ISSUE WERE
NOT AO EXPECTED (STOP) IT IS HOhDtl THAT THE CURRENT PROJECT, CROP
DILVERSIFICATION, FINANCED JOINTLY BY OUR TWO INSTITUTIONS WILL
LiE EXECUTED IN BETTER CONDITIONS (STOP)
BEST REGARDS
EL KHEIR HAJ EL AMIN,
ACTING DIRECTOR7
PROJECTS, PROGRAMMES AND
LEGAL AFFAIfiS DEPARTMENT
DADEA KHAROTUM
22-739 BADEA SD
248423 WORLDBANK
=10211111
RCA929
WBW1O73



- 41 -                                 Attachment 1
(Page 3 of 3)
COMMENTS FROM OPEC FUND
134H31. FlINT' A
RFF.F 0) t 737)/20
OCC4  20.92
FR11M 0I)I::FlJNCJ V EFNNA
TO4:MRS1  PFTTY  HANAN, AF1A(r WORL.J.l HANIKv WAS;H, DX .
RE:' FrlUATORIAL (iIJJNFEA  FTaNXXNE,iR;n;OeA RFiHAJ4, RPO.JF[lTr OF'FE( FUlND
LOAN Nl)  W/i)P
ACKNOWLEDGEF WIH  IHANKS RUIPFT OF' lR FPr;R. TH'F  PRI1JEU;1'"i PROSRFSS
RF0A,R))1X N0 1THF: ISTA)BL..YxSHMElNT OF X NF RATRUiU IIJHIR'E 1-() '.SJUPPOr 1HE
SUR-SFCTOR'S FUJRTHER DFVFI.OPMENT, ANnD Kr6ARDI:,N   THF Al  IFVIAIION
OF COI)NSAUI NTS ATHIcT-I N(  RIHEi         A N(: tAq. OF l ()OOA IPRODUIClTlrION9, HAS
BEFN NOTFD WI1H SATIFACTTON, APPRFCTXAIF 1i:. THGOOD' VIRIAL.ITY  OF' IIR
FPR  1NI1I UR' PERSOONAL. (CONTRIPTl:jI)ON  t)4WAR))3' THrH: PRwllWcT '    tcss
BESI RFGiARJ.IS
l_, VA^R (; FA.- 7 Dr,  2, l,TO R
OPS MiT
OPF :;F(LJND
134831 FUND A
24842-s3 WO0RL.fJ:ANK
=10200952
F r: (,'I769
W B W '.050
=1t02')') /25
NNNN









I



IBRD 17954R1
Si30'
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
BIOKO ISLAND
ROADS
PORTS
,+    AIRPORT
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS AND STREAMS
-* -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             MA, 8
)        ~~~~Pico de Basiled/
A ALA N INC
O C  EA N
0   2   4   6   8,  1,0 Milz                           MALI  J~~~~~.   NIGER    */   CH1AD   / DI
3o*ssbofi               NIGEARIABA
oekeJJ'Fs     c ,q e
ThX o fi j; ;r tENMALI
:O_ l9OiM Go    _ Fe f,CAMEROON4\,
bismol we of The Wodd looLkke                SUDA
go Ie b.idafs w "oU t'  EOUATORIAL<4 ..--- -it
0  10          20 Kilometers                                BURKm wM      C.,  GINSA AONG
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ike ileleIERI
8i3ty~os,m~~    .                    GuJ? o? Gi      GA80N 7\ 7
OCrOBER 1 992



