Document of
The World Bank                       m
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2337-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
ETHIOPIA
April 20, 1981
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Education Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Birr
US$ 0.483            =    Birr 1.00
US$1.00              =    Birr 2.07
US$483,000           =    Birr 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m/ton)              2204.6 pounds (lbs.)
GEOGRAPHICAL DIVISIONS
REGION                       =    STATE
(15 including Addis Ababa)
AWRAJA (102)                 =    PROVINCE
WEREDA (586)                 =    DISTRICT
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 to July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.  INTRODUCTION  .......................................     1
II.  DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS ....    ..........  1
Socio-Economic Setting .............................     1
Development Objectives .............................     2
Manpower and Employment ............................     3
III.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ...............................      4
Historical Perspective of the Sector ...............     4
Changes in Administration and Content of Education .     5
Quantitative Targets for the Education System  ......    6
The Non-Formal Education System ................         7
Assessment and Financial Implications of the Plan ..     8
Role of the Bank in Ethiopian Education .... ........    10
Institutional Capacity ......    .......................    11
IV.  THE PROJECT ........................................     12
Objectives .12
This report is based on the findings of a mission in January 1977 to Ethiopia
composed of Messrs. R.D. Loken (educator, mission leader), R. Welter (archi-
tect), M. Cecere (agricultural educator) and Mrs. R. Brandenburg (economist)
of the Bank, and Mr. E. Townsend-Coles (adult education specialist),
Dr. T. Eliot (veterinary education specialist) and Mrs. D. Tiglao (health
education specialist), consultants to the Bank. It was further reviewed
in October 1978, by Messrs. J. Scearce (deputy division chief-architect),
M. Cecere, R. Loken, and Mrs. R. Brandenburg and in January, 1980 by Mr. J.
Scearce and Mrs. R. Brandenburg.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
Project Components .................................    13
Primary  Schools   ...............................  13
Lower Secondary Schools .......................    13
Higher Secondary Schools .13
Water Supply for Secondary Schools............     14
Maintenance Program for
School Buildings and Educational Equipment        14
Awraja Pedagogical Centers ....     ................    15
National Curriculum Development Center ........    16
Community Skill Training Centers ....    ..........    16
School of Veterinary Medicine ....    .............    17
Monitoring and Evaluation Studies .............17
Summary of Technical Assistance ....     ................    18
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ....     ................    18
Project Cost .........................................    18
Financial  Plan  .....................................   21
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT .................................    21
Implementation .....................................    21
Procurement ........................................    22
Disbursement .......................................    23
VII.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION ....     ..............    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   .........    26
ANNEX I - Tables and Charts
Table 1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Enrollments and Additional Teacher Requirements of Primary
and Secondary Schools 1979/80-1985/86
3.   Government Expenditure on Education to Total Government
Expenditure and GDP
4.   Summary of Cost
5.  Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
6.   Implementation Schedule
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1.  Education Pyramid, 1979/80          World Bank 19952
2.   Structure of the Government
Education System 1979/80         World Bank 16716
ANNEX 2 -  The Project Management Office
ANNEX 3 -  Criteria for Site Selection
ANNEX 4 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP   IBRD 11427R1



ETHIOPIA
Basic Data 1979/80 (Est.)
GENERAL
Area                                                              1.2 million km2
Population (1979)                                                31.0 million
- of which rural population                                    26.8 million
Population growth rate                                            2.5% p.a.
Employment                                                       11.1 million
- of which:  rural                                              9.3 million
urban                                             1.8 million
Adult literacy rate                                               15%
Per capita income (1979)                                         US$130
EDUCATION                                          Gov't. Schools         All Schools
Enrollment in Primary Schools (grades 1-6)            1,494,000            1,811,251
- as a percentage of the 7-12 age group                  31%                 38%
Enrollment in Lower Secondary Schools
(grades 7-10)                                         282,115              306,000
- as a percentage of the 13-16 age group                10.1%                11%
Enrollment in Higher Secondary Schools
(grades 11-12)                                         63,716               65,300
- as a percentage of the 17-18 age group                   5%                5.1%
Academic Year                                                September - July
EDUCATION FINANCE (1978/79)
*       Government expenditure on education as a percentage of            11.1%
total Government expenditure
Government expenditure on education as a percentage                2.2%
of GDP
Recurrent education expenditure as a percentage of                11.8%
total Government recurrent expenditure



a



-T SSAR,Y OF ABBW7VIATIONS
APC        -     Awraja Pedagogical Center
CPSC       -     Central Planning Supreme Council
CSO        -     Central Statistics Office
CSTC       -     Community Skill Training Center
EBCA       -     Ethiopian Building Construction Authority, MHUD
EEC        -     European Economic Community
EMPDA      -     Educational Materials Production and Distribution
Agency
EPID       -     Extension and Project Implementation Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture
ESR        -     Education Sector Review
FYDCP      -     First Year Development Campaign Program
KEBELE     -     Urban Dwellers Association
LRDC       -     Local Revolutionary Operational and Development
Committee (now NRDC - National Revolutionary
Development Committee)
MHUD       -     Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MOA        -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOE        -     Ministry of Education
MPP        -     Minimum Package Program.  An agricultural develop-
ment project financed by Bank Group
NCDC       -     National Curriculum Development Center
NCDD       -     National Curriculum Development Department of the
Ministry of Education
NSS II     -     National Sample Survey-Second Round (1969-71)
PMO        -     Project Management Office, MOE
RPA        -     Rural Projects Agency (now EBCA)
SIDA       -     Swedish International Development Agency
SYDCP      -     Second Year Development Campaign Program
TTI        -     Teacher Training Institute
UPE        -     Universal Primary Education
WADU       -     Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit.  An agricul-
tural development project financed by Bank Group
Zemetcha   -     National Revolutionary Development Campaign (a
rural development campaign for which higher and
post-secondary students and teachers were drafted
during 1975 and part of 1976).



I



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project, which would assist the Government of Ethiopia
in the carrying out of certain priorities of its education plan (para 3.04),
was prepared by the Ministry of Education (MOE) with assistance from Bank
Group staff during two preappraisals, an appraisal and two post-appraisal
missions.  The main emphases of the proposed project are upon improving the
quality and relevance of the education sector, increasing the number of
students enrolled in the system so as to help provide Universal Primary
Education (UPE) by about 1989 and providing urgently needed high-level
manpower in the field of veterinary medicine. Specifically it would assist
in the improvement and expansion of basic elements of the educational system
including curricula revision, expansion of number of places in primary schools,
the provision of science and practical studies facilities for existing second-
ary schools, additional Awraja Pedagogical Centers, expansion of Community
Skill Training Centers in the non-formal education area, staff development, a
School of Veterinary Medicine and a manpower survey.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of 1.2 million km , is one of the largest
countries in Africa. The central part of the country is a plateau at 1,500
to 3,000 meters above sea level. The rest of the country consists of a vast
complex of mountains and plateaus rising from the plains in the east and cut
diagonally northeast to southwest by the Great Rift Valley. Detailed land
use data are not available, but it is estimated that about 50% is permanent
pasture, 10% cultivated land, 20% barren desert or swamps, 10% rivers and
lakes and 10% forests. The country's extremely rugged terrain is a serious
obstacle to economic development. Agriculture contributes about 50% of GDP
and over 90% of export earnings.
2.02      No demographic census has ever been carried out in Ethiopia.  The
best information about population is derived mainly from the National Sample
Survey Second Round (NSS II 1969-1971) which covered over 80% of the popula-
tion (excluding Eritrea and nomadic areas). It is estimated that the 1979
population was about 31 million growing at 2.5% p.a. Some 87% of the people
live in rural areas, mostly in the central highlands.



-2-
2.03      The population of working age (10-59) was calculated by the Central
Statistical Office (CSO) to be 18.5 million in January, 1978. Of this, the
CSO estimates employment to be about 11 million of which 9.3 million are in
the rural sector and 1.8 in the modern sector. It is generally believed that
there is considerable under-employment among agricultural workers and that
unemployment in urban centers may be about 20% of the labor force. At least
two-thirds of unemployment is found among people under 25 years of age, many
being illiterates who have migrated to towns.
Development Objectives
2.04      The broad economic and social objectives of the Government include
the expansion of production to meet the basic needs of the people, a more
equitable distribution of economic and social benefits and a wider participa-
tion of the population in the development process. The basic objectives have
important implications for the organization and administration of the education
delivery system, and in particular for the content and implementation of an
education investment program.
2.05      Until 1974, the Government structure was highly centralized in the
Capital.  Subsequent to the revolution in 1974, a number of reforms have been
introduced to strengthen regional and local administration. Ethiopia is
divided into 15 administrative regions (including Addis Ababa), 102 awrajas
and 586 weredas. The Government proclamations of April and December 1975 on
land tenure reform provided for the redistribution of all land in the rural
areas and for the organization and consolidation of Peasant Associations,
about 50 in each wereda. Peasant Associations, about 25,000 of which have
been organized to date, are expected to form the nucleus of local Government
in each community. It is anticipated that the resultant strengthening of
local Government administration will accelerate rural development including
education.
2.06      A proclamation of July 1975 set forth Government ownership of urban
lands and provided for the establishment of the Urban Dwellers Associations
or kebeles. There are 2,000 kebeles now and 2,000 more will be organized by
1986. The kebeles are to become focal points for development activities and
political participation in urban areas. A proclamation of September 1975
transferred all private primary and secondary schools to public ownership
and operation. A further proclamation of October 1976 provided the legal
framework for representative management committees to administer all schools.
These proclamations provided the urban and rural associations with an opport-
unity to develop and exercise a degree of self-administration and eliminate
private profit from the education system.



-3-
Manpower and Employment
2.07      Rural Sector.  Ethiopia's development strategy includes strong
commitment- to investment in rural areas, education, health and roads.  The
rural sector is expected to provide employment and income for practically
all the entrants into the labor force over the next 10 to 15 years. For the
education sector, this policy would be supported by the provision of school
facilities in rural areas, and the expansion and improvement of specialized
training programs for agriculture, cooperatives, local administration and
health services. Approximately 55,000 new primary teachers will be required
between 1979/80 and 1985/86 to cater for projected enrollment increases in
rural areas.  By 1985/86, Peasant Associations expect to employ directly or
indirectly about 150,000 persons in the capacity of program coordinators,
development agents, community craftsmen and ancillary staff, such as store-
keepers, bookkeepers, typists, etc. The Cooperative Societies, when fully
developed, are expected to generate employment for about 20,000 in capaci-
ties such as managers, accountants, home economists and general service staff
over the next ten years. Additional employment of about 8,000 persons by the
mid 1980s is expected to be created by development projects in agriculture,
transportation, public utilities and forestry. New investments in the health
sector will require at least 2,000 new entrants by 1985. Most of these
additional employees would be hired by local communities. A shortage of the
categories of manpower needed to implement the various rural programs, par-
ticularly the development of Peasant Associations, could become a serious
constraint on efforts to achieve the country's development objectives.
2.08      Urban Sector.  Discussions with Government officials revealed
a continuing shortage of qualified personnel such as accountants, economists,
and administrators as well as technical personnel. Shortages are so acute,
that all job placements are now controlled by the Employment Service. The
Government plans to implement major structural changes in the economy over
the next five to ten years which should have substantial impact on the
demand for skilled manpower. Current Government estimates indicate that
modern sector employment is increasing at about 3.5% p.a.; thus, over the
next ten years, requirements for graduates from higher secondary and post
secondary education for modern sector employment are likely to number about
140,000, including 10,000 employed by the kebeles. Together with requirements
for secondary school teachers, employees of the Peasant Associations and
rural organizations, total needs for graduates from secondary and higher
education can be estimated at 230,000 over the next decade. If the Govern-
ment's proposed 10% p.a. increase in higher secondary school enrollments is
continued over the Plan period, projected net outputs from higher and post-
secondary schools could number about 260,000 which indicates that output from
the education system and estimated manpower needs 1/ would be reasonably in
balance.
1/   Adjusted for labor participation rates of 50% for females and 80% for
males.



- 4 -
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Historical Perspective of the Sector
3.01      In the late 1960s, the education sector of Ethiopia faced major
problems. Enrollment at the primary level was only about 16% of the 7-12 age
group and almost one-third of the total number of pupils were in private
schools.  At the secondary level, enrollment was some 5% of the 13-18 age
group of which about 95% were in lower secondary schools.  Dropout and repeti-
tion rates were high and a large proportion of the teachers were expatriates
or unqualified. In spite of considerable assistance by Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) and other donor agencies, primary school facilities
remained inadequate, and the curriculum directed mainly to the preparation of
students for general secondary education. At the secondary level, (assistance
was provided under the First IDA Education Project - Credit 84-ET), instruc-
tion was still basically urban-oriented. The technical schools had not
developed effective communication with industry thus contributing to unemploy-
ment of their graduates. In brief, the educational system was not adequately
responding to socio-economic needs and objectives.
3.02      To provide a basis for an objective analysis of these problems, an
Education Sector Review (ESR) was carried out during the period 1971-1973.
The ESR was organized and conducted by Ethiopians assisted by expatriate
advisors, and was largely financed under the Second IDA Education Project
(Credit 243-ET). The ESR clearly revealed the need for change and proposed
significant reforms.  However, opposition developed, spearheaded by parents,
teachers and other interest groups with the result that the report was shelved.
3.03      The Government now considers, however, that the ESR was a signifi-
cant document, although it also considers that basic structural changes in
governmental administration (subsequently implemented) would have had to
precede such radical changes in the education sector. The current Ten Year
Development Plan (1976-1986) now incorporates many of the findings and recom-
mendations of the ESR.
3.04      The basic policies of the Government as redefined from time to time
obviously have important implications for educational development. For
example, the Ten Year Development Plan of the MOE, although approved by the
Social and Economic Council of the Government, has now been stretched out by
about three years to 1989 to accord with new development objectives. Essen-
tially the Plan has six main objectives: (a) attainment of Universal Primary
Education (grades 1-6) by 1989; (b) equitable distribution of secondary
education among rural and urban areas; (c) participation in non-formal educa-
tion activities by up to 80% of the population in the 19-45 age group; (d)
provision of appropriate teacher training, administration and educational
support services; (e) increased emphasis on cultural, economic and social
relevance throughout the system consistent with the new socialist philosophy;
and (f) implementation of these developments within a strengthened regional
structure of services and administration.



Changes in Administration and Content of Education
3.05      The Government's intention to strengthen regional administration is
being reflected in the progressive assumption by the regional, awraja, wereda
and village level authorities of responsibility for the development and
operation of the education system. Such basic administrative functions as
educational planning and supervision, and their implementation through the
school construction and maintenance programs, the recruitment and payment of
salaries of primary school teachers, and the selection of students for secon-
dary and higher levels of education, exemplify their new responsibilities.
Given the size and topography of Ethiopia, decentralization, if implemented
properly, should have beneficial effects on the quality and relevance of
education. An important new educational operational unit has been created at
the awraja level, the Awraja Pedagogical Center (APC). The APCs have respon-
sibility, inter alia, for in-service teacher training, assistance with the
introduction of specialized courses and the distribution of textbooks and
other learning materials (para. 4.09). As a part of the education plan, and
in line with the recognition of cultural minorities, the Government is promot-
ing the use of the five principal local languages in primary education and in
teaching aids.
3.06      The main impact of the decision to rephase the program and achieve
UPE by about 1989 (previously 1986) is that over 9,000 additional and replace-
ment primary schools and corresponding numbers of additional primary school
teachers, will be required on a less demanding schedule. The most pressing
need is to train teachers, with the support of a well-planned in-service
teacher training program (para. 3.11).
3.07      The Education Plan provides that as a first target, a lower secondary
school would be established in every wereda for about every 25 primary schools;
this would ensure a balanced development of the system. The accelerated pace
of rural and agricultural development has created the need for large numbers
of educated and trained manpower to manage and operate the kebeles, the
Peasant Associations, and the many agricultural development projects (para.
2.07). To meet these expanding needs, the Government has extended the lower
secondary school cycle from two to four years to produce personnel of the
required background, and reduced the higher secondary school cycle from four to
two years. Double-shifting will have the effect of greatly increasing the
output of secondary school students. The Government plans that about 63% of
the lower secondary and 50% of the higher secondary schools will adopt the
double-shift system by 1981. This will allow students to participate in local
development projects (paras. 4.03-4.04). To ensure that students are properly
prepared for productive employment, the new curriculum requires that almost
half of the school week is devoted to education in applied technology such as
bookkeeping, typing, wood and metal work, agriculture and home economics.
Textbooks and learning materials are being prepared in English and Amharic.
Research and development in the other four major languages of Ethiopia
(Oromigna, Wolaytiana, Tigrigna and Somaligna) to serve the diverse needs of
the various ethnic groups (para. 3.05) are underway.



- 6 -
3.08      Progression from one educational level to the next will be deter-
mined by an evaluation of the student's application of knowledge and skill
to productive labor, attitude toward manual labor, self-discipline, and
contribution to the community as well as scholastic achievement. The community
will participate in this evaluation process.
3.09      A vigorous staff development program for the training of supervisors,
school directors, teacher trainers and administrators is under way. The
facilities of the Academy of Pedagogy at Bahr Dar and of the existing primary
Teacher Training Institutes (TTI) and the APCs are used for this activity
which is vital to the success of the overall education plan. The MOE has been
considerably strengthened in recent years, particularly in the areas of plan-
ning, school supervision, curriculum development and non-formal education.
The MOE is expected therefore to be able to implement the planned program
satisfactorily. A Project Management Office (PMO) within the planning services
of the MOE, would coordinate the work of the MOE with Ethiopian Building
Construction Agency (EBCA) 1/ construction activities, the MOE line Depart-
ments and other Ministries/Agencies concerned (para. 6.01).
Quantitative Targets for the Education System
3.10      The formal education system provides six years of primary schooling,
four years of lower secondary and two years at higher secondary school level.
In 1979/80, there were 5,200 primary schools with total enrollment of about
1.8 million, or 38% of the age group; 706 lower secondary schools with enroll-
ment of 306,000 or 11% of the age group; and 167 higher secondary schools
with enrollment of 65,300 or some 5% of the age group. Considerable dis-
ruption of the education system was caused by the recent difficulties in the
Ogaden and in Eritrea resulting in the effective loss of numerous schools and
delay in carrying out the Plan. Under the proposed ten-year education develop-
ment Plan, through the use of double shifts and the construction of additional
schools, the Government plans to increase enrollments by 19% p.a. for primary
schools; 10% p.a. for lower secondary schools; and 10% p.a. for higher secon-
dary schools. As a percentage of the relevant age groups, enrollments as
recently revised would by about 1986 reach 76% in primary education, 16% in
lower secondary and 8% in higher secondary (Annex 1, T-1, T-2, C-1 and C-2).
3.11      The planned primary school enrollment increases will require approx-
imately 89,500 teachers by 1986 assuming a 50:1 student:teacher ratio. As of
1979/80, 30,600 have been trained and 8,000 p.a. will be trained over the next
seven years in short-term, in-service teacher training courses using the
TTIs and the APCs (para. 3.05). At the lower secondary school level, there
are about 7,460 teachers and 2,000 additional teachers will be required by
1986. At the higher secondary level, there are about 1,500 teachers and 900
additional teachers will be required by 1986. Detailed plans for producing
the required secondary school teachers, including teachers of practical
subjects, have been prepared by the Government and have been reviewed by the
1/   Formerly called the Rural Projects Agency, also under the Ministry of
Housing and Urban Development (MHUD).



- 7 -
Association. The Government has confirmed that the teacher training provi-
sions of the Plan would be carried out and progress reported semi-annually and
discussed with the Association in the course of project supervision (para.
8.02(a)). The sources of these teachers include: the Academy of Pedagogy,
the Addis Ababa University, the College of Teacher Education, the Bahr Dar
Technical Institute, Alemaya College, seven junior colleges, and in-service
teacher training programs which have been expanded and improved.
The Non-Formal Education System
3.12      A comprehensive system of non-formal education is now taking shape
through the establishment of facilities at the village, wereda, awraja and
regional levels. The key to the development of non-formal education lies
in the wereda Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs) of which about 200 are
already in operation. They will be the main focus for community development
and are engaged in nonformal educational activities, including basic education
and literacy. Though controlled by the MOE, the Centers are used by "develop-
ment agents" from other Ministries particularly those of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Health. An inter-ministerial coordinating committee ensures
that agricultural extension training programs and training programs in health,
community development, and others, work smoothly together. A staff develop-
ment program for the CSTCs has been initiated and the first 100 CSTC coordina-
tors have received orientation training. Wereda-based activities will be
founded on the basic education program at village level, supported by the
personnel and material resources of the APCs (para. 3.05). The Government is
now establishing regional multi-purpose training centers for peasants which
will further strengthen the total structure of rural training and development
and will reinforce training activities at the wereda level (CSTS) and village
levels (national literacy campaign and basic education).
3.13      There are three significant developments at the national level.  The
first is the strengthening of the Department of Adult Education in the regions
and awrajas. Presently thirty trained professionals and about 130 trained
adult education officers in the APCs are actively engaged in formulating pro-
grams. Second is the on-going substantial expansion in the use of educational
radio; nine transmitter stations (supported by the Fourth IDA Education
Project - Credit 553-ET) are being established from which formal and non-formal
programs in local languages will be broadcast. One transmitter is operating,
eight have been installed and all nine will have commenced programmed broad-
casts by May 1981. Third is the strengthening with the assistance of the
European Economic Community (EEC) of the Correspondence Education Unit in the
MOE to cater for groups and individuals engaged in continuing education and in
many aspects of non-formal education. That these various developments are
taking place simultaneously offers opportunities for their joint planning. In
particular, they provide the CSTCs with the supportive services necessary for
effective non-formal education programs at the village level. An alternative
technology center offering services to all units of the education system is
being assisted under the Third IDA Education Project (Credit 417-ET) and by
UNICEF. The facilities have just been completed and a technical assistance
adviser is in place.



- 8 -
3.14      A campaign to eradicate illiteracy among the 10- to 60-year-old
population was announced in June 1979. It is reported that some 5.4 million
are currently participating, of whom an estimated 73% are women. Instructors
have been drawn from the teaching profession, students, the civil service, the
armed forces and factory and office workers. The aim of the initial phase of
the program was to eradicate illiteracy among the urban population by 1981.
The program was then to have been expanded in two phases into the rural areas
with no specific target date set for illiteracy eradication.
Assessment and Financial Implications of the Plan
3.15      The Ten-Year Education Plan (1976-86) called for a Central Govern-
ment capital investment of about Birr 380 million (constant 1976/77 prices).
The proposed credit would be disbursed over four years during which capital
investment of Birr 128 million would be required. It is envisaged that
capital investment would be financed mainly by external sources. The proposed
IDA credit, and other external sources to be arranged, and the undisbursed
portions of the previously arranged financing for projects still to be in
execution during the Plan period (para. 3.21), account for about Birr 92
million, or 72% of capital investment. The balance would be met by the
Government as would all the recurrent expenditure.
3.16      The Education Plan projects total Central Government recurrent and
capital expenditure on education to rise from an estimated Birr 160 million in
1978-79 to an estimated Birr 370 million by 1985/86 (Annex 1, T-3). The
recurrent expenditure estimates are based on per-student costs lower than
those prevailing in the last few years, resulting from double shifting and
lower average teacher salaries through the hiring of teachers with lower
credentials. Teachers salaries have been frozen for the past five years.
Whether the projected Birr 370 million will constitute a feasible burden for
the Government budget will depend on the overall expansion of the economy, the
level of taxation and the overall priority given to education by the Govern-
ment. Performance in these respects will require periodic review (para.
3.19).
3.17      Education expenditures as a percentage of Government expenditures
have declined over the past few years. Significantly, in 1972/73 education
expenditures as a percentage of Government expenditures were about 19%; in
1975/76 the percentage had dropped to about 14% and in 1978/79 to about 11%.
If GDP in real terms increases by about 4% p.a. over the next six years and
the ratio of Government expenditures to GDP remains at about 20% then Govern-
ment expenditures on education as a percentage of total Government expendi-
tures would rise to over 19% by 1985-86 (para. 3.16). This share of educa-
tion in the Government budget would be in line with experience in other
African countries. However, in order to carry out the Government's ten year
Education Plan, expenditures on education would have to grow at almost 13%
p.a. in real terms, about triple the projected growth rate of GDP. In addi-
tion, an increase to 19% in the budgetary share of education expenditures by
1985/86 would require a major reorientation of budgetary priorities. It is
unlikely that the Government will be in a position to increase education



(                -~~~~~9 -
expenditures at the required rate and to effect the related reorientation of
priorities before 1985/86. Therefore, the time frame in which to carry out
the education plan may have to be extended at least another seven to eight
years.
3.18      The general population, however, through the Peasant and Urban
Associations are expected to make direct contributions to education (paras.
3.07-3.08). It is not implausible that with such contributions the projected
education expenditure for 1985/86 which would constitute about 4% of GDP,
could be met. In other words, the projected level of education service could
be provided at a lower cost to the Government. For example, if 20% of the
cost of education is borne by non-Government sources (kebeles and Peasant
Associations), and if the ratio of total Government expenditure to GDP remains
at about 20%, then the budgetary share of education in 1985/86 would be about
15%; under these conditions, reorientation of budgetary priorities appears
feasible. It is expected that the wealthier areas will contribute substan-
tially to the recurrent cost of education and that Government support will be
provided where real needs are evident. In this process it is intended that
local planning and management will play a large role. Since part of the input
of the Peasant Associations would be in kind and not in cash, their financial
contribution is difficult to estimate. The Peasant Associations would hire
and pay teachers at a rate determined by the Associations themselves. Since
the teachers would be trained and employed in their home areas, it ought to be
possible to keep salaries low and the Peasant Associations would provide a
feasible means of additional support such as housing. According to the Plan,
40% of capital cost of primary education would be provided by the kebeles and
the Peasant Associations in the form of labor, in kind, or financial contribu-
tion. According to projections developed as a part of the plan of operation
prepared by the Government for the implementation of the targets and changes
depicted in paras. 3.05-3.13, this would amount to approximately Birr 5
million p.a. in 1980 rising to Birr 11 million equivalent by 1985/86, in cash
and/or in kind.
3.19      Frequent periodic reviews of the cost of the Plan during implementa-
tion will be necessary so that timely modifications can be made to keep
recurrent costs in accord with changing economic performance. It is antici-
pated that the phasing and implementation of UPE, one of the main thrusts of
the Government's program, will not severely strain the budget, at least in the
first few years. However, during the first three-year tranche of the Plan,
the Government will be able to monitor the progress and cost of education
expansion, and make any necessary adjustments. The Government would on a
semi-annual basis prepare the required data for review and in consultation
with the Association decide on remedial measures to be taken (para. 8.02(b)).
Role of the Bank in Ethiopian Education
3.20      During the 1960s, the Bank's policy in education emphasized manpower
development for growth in the modern sectors of the economy and accordingly
directed attention to projects in the fields of general secondary education



- 10 -
and vocational and technical education and training; this approach was basically
followed in the first three IDA education projects. In the early 1970s, the
Bank's approach to education generally and in Ethiopia widened to include
support of primary and non-formal education, mass media and curriculum
development.
3.21      The Bank Group has assisted in the financing of four projects in
the sector. The first, signed in 1966 and completed in 1972, assisted the
expansion of secondary, technical and teacher education and the diversifica-
tion of curricula at various levels. The second, signed in 1971 and completed
in 1979, assisted teacher and agricultural education and modest expansion of
secondary education while improving its geographical distribution and quality.
The third, signed in 1973, provided assistance to rural education, the
teaching of science and the production of textbooks and teaching materials.
The fourth, signed in 1975, is helping the implementation of an education
program for the expansion of basic and non-formal education, the training
of specialized rural development personnel and the consolidation of the
teaching of social sciences at the university. The on-going project is being
competently implemented by EBCA.
3.22      The first IDA education project (Credit 84-ET) was implemented
reasonably well, although the Closing Date was postponed 1-1/2 years. An
evaluation study conducted by the Bank concluded that its quantitative
objectives have been met (and indeed surpassed), but in many project schools
the new curricula have been only partially introduced. Equitable access
to education was a less important criterion of need at the time of the
development of the first project and most schools were placed in urban or
semi-urban areas. In the second project (Credit 243-ET) the Government
requested that funds not fully utilized for technical assistance be used to
expand and re-equip science facilities and workshops in 31 existing secondary
schools, resulting in a three-year delay of the Closing Date to July 31, 1979.
The Project Completion Report concluded that the project had met or exceeded
quantitative targets, but that qualitative improvement had been hampered by
trained teacher shortages and delays in the provision of equipment to schools.
Implementation took over eight years as against the forecast five years, due
mainly to dislocations during and following the revolution, and changes in
project content. Project costs were, on the whole, lower than appraisal
estimates. A Project Performance Audit Report No. 3252 dated December 29,
1980 agreed with the findings of the Completion Report, and noted with approba-
tion that the Borrower-s reply to the PPAC Report was "unusually comprehensive
and thorough, and shows that the experience with the project has been analyzed
and used to benefit current and future projects." Implementation of the third
project (Credit 417-ET) was completed in December, 1980. The Government
decided to delete the Ethiopian Orthodox Church Training Center and instead
requested the construction and equipping of 180 Community Skill Training
Centers. This revision, inter alia, delayed the project by two years. The
fourth project (Credit 553-ET) is generally on schedule with good progress
in the primary and secondary school components and is expected to be completed
by December 1981, the original Closing Date. In summary, considering the



- 11 -
difficulties mentioned in paragraph 3.10, implementation of education projects
in Ethiopia has been about average for the Eastern Africa Region. Important
lessons learned through the implementation of these projects and applied in
designing this project are: (a) to review thoroughly teacher and instructor
supply (para. 3.11); (b) to establish an adequate school maintenance system
(para. 4.06); (c) to improve the accounting procedures of EBCA (para. 6.12);
(d) to develop a realistic implementation schedule (para. 6.13); and (e) to
provide for flexibility in determining school location (Annex 3).
3.23      The Bank Group has participated in policy formation and institution
building in Ethiopia. The sector review which was supported by the Bank Group
encouraged Ethiopia to evaluate its education programs and actively seek a
sound educational policy whereby relevance to the country's socio-economic
needs and overall equity in the education system could be promoted. This was
followed by support for manpower studies since the Bank was involved in the
improvement of secondary level institutions, education planning and reform of
curricula and teaching methods. Institution building was also assisted
through the development of the project office in close collaboration with
SIDA. The building construction section of the original project office has
been so successful and competent that it evolved into RPA now known as EBCA
(paras. 3.09, 3.21 and 6.01).
Institutional Capacity
3.24      Through the education projects assisted by the Bank Group as well as
through programs assisted by other agencies - primarily SIDA - the capacity of
the MOE and of the EBCA to plan and implement investments for the development
of the sector have increased considerably over the past 12 years. The sector
review of 1971/73 has provided an essential input for long-term educational
planning. Institutionalization and decentralization of the planning depart-
ment of the MOE is being successfully carried out with assistance also from
UNESCO/UNICEF, the staffing of which is now almost entirely Ethiopian. The
general outline of the Plan summarized in paras. 3.04-3.13 is indicative of
the good quality of the work of the department at the macro-level. At the
micro-level, adequate procedures have been developed to locate schools
strategically and to ensure satisfactory provision of teachers and instructors.
At the same time, the capacity of the National Curriculum Development Center
(NCDC) under the direction of the National Curriculum Development Department
(NCDD) has been considerably expanded over the past five years. New curricula
are being developed and tested by the NCDC; the staff includes about 73
professionals of whom about 13 are expatriates. The NCDC is now in the
process of adjusting the new curricula to take account of both the findings of
curricula assessment and the new policy lines of the Government which places
greater stress than in the past on rural development and decentralization.
Educational planning and curriculum development are adequately interfaced with
the physical implementation program carried out by the EBCA; direct coordina-
tion is provided by a special Project Management Office in the MOE (para.
6.01).



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project consists of a three year phase which would
assist in carrying out major objectives of the Government's Educational Plan
and promote qualitative improvement while helping to reduce imbalances in the
distribution of opportunities for general education. As a result of the
proposed project as well as of on-going projects and the efforts of the
Peasant Associations, the primary school enrollment ratio would increase from
38% in 1979/80 to about 76% by 1986. At the secondary level, an expansion of
about 10% p.a. would be obtained. The enrollment ratio would increase from
11% at lower secondary to 16% and from 4% at higher secondary to 8% by 1986
and the literacy rate of the adult population is expected to increase from
about 15% to about 20% by 1986, primarily as a result of the National Literacy
Campaign, and CSTC expansion and program development. The project would also
assist in the reorientation of curricula at primary and secondary levels
towards practical work and studies relevant to the rural environment. The
Government is evaluating various methods of estimating educational efficiency,
including the use of a student tracer system, and the Association would review
the progress of, and provide advice to, education evaluation methodology in
the course of Bank staff supervision of the implementation of the project
(para. 4.16). The participation of females in education programs is
improving and is being further encouraged through the project. Female parti-
cipation in the formal education system in 1979/80 was 34% of total primary
enrollments and 35% of total combined enrollments in lower and higher secon-
dary grades. (Annex 1, C-1). The proposed project specifically provides
funds for, inter alia, domestic science facilities at each of the lower and
higher secondary schools included in the project (paras. 4.03-4.04). In
addition, it is expected that female participation will be high in the CSTC
programs (para. 4.14).
Project Components
4.02      Primary Schools (grades 1-6).  Under the project 350 additional
four-classroom schools would be provided. These schools would increase
enrollments in primary education by approximately 123,000 based on the
assumption that 75% of the schools would adopt the double-shift plan and
would assist in meeting the objective of UPE by about 1989. Locations would
be selected in accordance with the criteria outlined in Annex 3. With the
SIDA contribution of funds for the provision of building materials to the
Peasant Associations  for about 1650 primary schools, enrollment over about
three years will increase by 700,000 which is the Plan target. The IDA
Project schools would be constructed by the EBCA departmental forces (force
account method) in areas where because of remoteness, sociological factors or
other reasons, self-help has not proven practical.



- 13 -
4.03      Lower Secondary Schools (grades 7-10).  The project includes provi-
sion for the expansion of 90 lower secondary schools which would increase
enrollment by approximately 11,700, based on 63% of the schools adopting the
double shift plan (para. 3.07). The double shift plan will result in all
students spending 216 working days in school and on community projects which
is 35 days more than at present. The major purpose of the double shift plan
is to provide students with practical experience in development activities
and to ensure better utilization of facilities, and to allow direct student
and teacher participation in the economic development campaign. The physical
expansion of the schools would be provided by attaching a "service module" to
existing schools. Each module would provide 80 additional student places.
The standardized module would include facilities and equipment for one
general science laboratory, one physics/chemistry laboratory, one general
purpose workshop and one domestic science or commercial subject classroom.
Also included would be a library and toilet facilities. Selection of the
schools to be expanded would be in accordance with the agreed criteria
(Annex 3).
4.04      Higher Secondary Schools (grades 11-12).  Additions to 15 existing
lower secondary schools would be provided to convert them to higher secondary
schools; this would increase enrollment by 3,150 based on theoassumption that
50% of the schools adopt the double shift plan. The physical expansion of
these schools would be accomplished by adding a service module, similar to,
but larger than, the module for the lower secondary schools. The module
would include three science laboratories (general, biological and physical),
three workshops, one business studies room and would provide 140 additional
student places. This would provide facilities for teaching practical subjects
(science, productive technology, agriculture, domestic science and commerce).
Students would be required to specialize in one of these subject areas (14
hours out of 33 hours per week) and to take three hours/week in a second
practical subject (para. 3.07). Also included would be a library and toilet
facilities. Selection of schools to be converted would be on the basis of
the agreed criteria outlined in Annex 3.
4.05      Water Supply for Secondary Schools.  In the planned expansion of
lower and higher secondary schools, in at least 60 of the locations, water is
not available. Since a safe and adequate water supply is considered essential
for the operation of the schools, well boring is the only alternative available
in the planned locations to ensure a proper water supply. Financing of the
necessary drilling costs, piping, pumps and water storage tanks for about 60
wells would be provided in the project. The Water Resources Authority and the
Municipalities Department of the Ministry of Interior are expected to assist
in carrying out this work. Sites selected by the Government would be reported
in the annual work plan including work completed (para. 6.03).
4.06      Maintenance Program for Educational Equipment and School Buildings.
Maintenance of educational equipment and school buildings has been neglected
in the past, and the existing Maintenance Sections in the MOE lack the
capacity and resources to perform adequate maintenance on a nation-wide



- 14 -
basis. The requirement to strengthen the Maintenance Section arises from
the need for a more effective approach to maintenance due to the increasing
number of school units and the growing volume of equipment. With the ex-
ception of major structural repairs on buildings, which is the responsibility
of the EBCA, the MOE is assigned this operational responsibility. This
proposed component would create a more effective decentralization mechanism
within the MOE organization and would integrate as far as possible, for
economy reasons, the equipment and building maintenance units.
4.07      The Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
(EMPDA) of the MOE, assisted under the Third IDA Education Project (Credit
417-ET) to develop the production of prototype educational materials and
equipment including distribution, has been given the responsibility for
procurement and maintenance of educational equipment. This Agency, which
reports directly to the Permanent Secretary of MOE, would be further assisted
by this proposed project by provisions for additional training facilities
at the Addis Ababa headquarters and facilities for one of the six zonal units,
equipment, vehicles, tool kits, an initial stock of spare parts, and three
man-years of technical assistance. This would allow the EMPDA to effectively
establish a three-tier maintenance system consisting of: (a) a headquarters
unit with workshop and training facilities; (b) a six zone decentralized
structure with workshops and maintenance personnel; and (c) school level
maintenance in about 100 of the larger secondary schools (one trained equip-
ment maintenance man per school). The Building Maintenance Unit in the MOE,
which also reports directly to the Permanent Secretary of the MOE, has remained
small and basically serves only schools in the Addis Ababa area. It is
supplemented tvT personnel posted in the regional education offices.  Limited
support was given to the unit under the Second IDA Education Project (Credit
243-ET) and has yet to expand on a nation-wide basis. The proposed project
would provide workshop facilities for one of the six zonal units, equipment,
vehicles, tool kits, an initial stock of repair materials and about three
staff years of technical assistance. The organizational structure would
be parallel with the EMPDA and would also consist of a headquarters section in
Addis Ababa and six zonal units which would serve two to three adjacent
regions.
4.08      Maintenance of primary schools is the responsibility of the local
community groups but technical services when requested would be provided
by the EMPDA and the Building Maintenance Units.  Tool kits and instructions
are being provided to primary schools to carry out such work. Maintenance
of the secondary level schools is funded by the MOE and a major training
effort is under way to instruct pupils and teachers in school buildings and
equipment maintenance and the success of this campaign to date indicates that
minor routine maintenance work can be completed through self-help which will
continue to be emphasized. The MOE budget for equipment and building main-
tenance has averaged about Birr 1.6 million (US$0.8 million) p.a. for the past
three years. The Equipment Maintenance Unit requires a staff of about 155 of
which 126 would be stationed in the field. The Building Maintenance Unit will
require about 112 technicians of which 86 are trained and in post (85 to be in
the field). The Government has provided: (a) a satisfactory administrative



- 15 -
and operational plan indicating the relationship between the EMPDA and the
Building Maintenance Unit including the phasing of the establishment of the
additional posts required; and (b) assurances that funds would be provided to
carry out satisfactorily this program on a long term basis. The MOE would
provide, for the Association's review each year, an annual report of opera-
tions indicating budgetary allocations required, received, and spent, personnel
trained and work carried out in connection with school maintenance programs
(para. 8.02(d)). Included are about three years of specialist services under
the technical assistance provisions of the project to assist in the organiza-
tion and operation of EMPDA and School Buildings Unit responsibilities for the
maintenance of buildings and equipment.
4.09      Awraja Pedagogical Centers (APCs).  The encouragement of local
responsibility and authority for the educational system will require consider-
able strengthening of the educational support services at the awraja level.
Pedagogical centers are being created for this purpose (para. 3.05), 29
APCs in specially constructed facilities are already providing useful service
and assistance to the schools in their areas, and 56 others are operating in
temporary quarters.  Forty of the remaining 73 needed to provide one APC in
each of the 102 awraias would be assisted under this proposed project.  The
APCs are staffed and equipped to provide school supervision, coordination,
in-service teacher training, program evaluation, advice and work on curriculum
modification, assistance on the development and use of teaching aids, research
and other supporting services for schools in the area. The APC is also the
distribution point for new educational materials and provides assistance to
both the formal and non-formal education programs. Funds would also be
provided for about 35 three-month overseas fellowships for training in appro-
priate technology (fellowships would be awarded in consultation with the
Association) and for staff development. The EEC and UNICEF are also providing
equipment, supplies, materials and local training costs for these centers.
4.10      Each APC is initially to be staffed with a coordinator, a development
specialist and an assistant teacher/instructor. Five additional instructors
will be assigned to each APC when the programs are in full operation. Selection
of the locations for the APCs would be on the basis of the agreed criteria
(Annex 3).
4.11      National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC).  The changes in
Government policy and social orientation since 1974 made necessary major
curriculum revisions in all subject areas and at every level in the educa-
tional structure. In the Third IDA Education Project, Phase I of the facili-
ties were provided for, inter alia, the development of sciences and home
economics curricula. Those facilities, together with adjacent facilities for
educational materials production, are fully operational. The Fourth IDA
Education Project provided funds for writing, illustrating and the production
of prototype curricula in 15 subject areas. This work has proceeded rapidly
and is virtually complete with 195 textbooks, workbooks and teachers' guides
completed and several million copies reproduced. These documents are continu-
ing to be evaluated and updated as may be required.



- 16 -
4.12      The Science Curricula Center (Phase I of the NCDC), for the past
year, has provided office space and other facilities for othe-r non-science
curricular activities as well (mathematics, English, agriculture, etc.). This
has resulted in serious overcrowding, four or five people occupying offices
intended for two. In the proposed project, additional facilities (Phase II)
would be provided to meet the needs of non-science curricula and teaching
materials development. The subject areas would include family health, produc-
tive technology, social science, agriculture, business education, languages,
mathematics, music, art and teacher training. Detailed work plans have been
prepared for all subject areas and some draft prototype textbooks and teaching
guides have been produced. While the quality of the work produced to date has
been acceptable, considerable revision and quality improvement will be required.
To accomplish this, an additional staff of 40 professionals will be added to
the assigned present staff of 73 professional (13 expatriates) and by the
short-term employment of subject area task forces made up of teachers and
contract personnel. All new materials developed are now being subjected to a
rigorous try-out program. Funds would be provided for Phase II facilities
including construction, furniture and equipment, and to defray the per diem,
transport and related costs of these task force operations, the try-out
evaluation program, and the costs of preparing the prototype materials.
4.13      It should be noted that in the 1976 reorganization, the NCDC also
assumed responsibility for educational supervision, evaluation and research
together with the administration of the APCs. This organizational change
improves the efficiency of the MOE since it brings together several closely
related, formerly separated, functions. It also makes the NCDD an active
force in teacher training; groups of teachers are in continuous attendance
at the center learning how to use the new materials. The Government would
provide for the Association's review a semi-annual report of progress in
curriculum development (para 8.02(f)).
4.14      Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs).  Each CSTC is managed
by a committee responsible to the Local National Revolutionary Development
Committee, which includes representatives of the Peasant Associations, and is
usually sited at or near the wereda capital. The facilities consist of a
modest building, constructed partially by the local community, comprising a
covered work area, also usable for community gatherings, a workshop, an
office and a storeroom. About 200 CSTCs have been constructed to date, some
of which also include dormitories, kitchens and related facilities using
community funds. Each Center is staffed by a coordinator and some also
have a deputy, assisted by development agents of all operational Ministries,
and locally recruited community craftsmen. The CSTCs are to provide skill
training at a level required locally; the participants are nominated by the
member Peasant Associations and on completion of the training, are required
to act as Change Agents in their respective communities. Skills to be taught
include agriculture (benefitting also the implementation of the IDA-assisted
Minimum Package Program-MPP), equipment repair, cottage industries, and
carpentry. In addition, there are literacy training, health education, and
other adult educational activities. Staff of the Centers stimulate educa-
tional work in surrounding villages of the wereda. This proposed component,



- 17 -
which is an extension of the CSTC program begun under the Third and Fourth
IDA Education Projects, includes 40 CSTCs together with funds for staff
training courses, and basic furniture and equipment. The EEC is providing
funds for program development and evaluation. Locations would be selected in
accordance with the agreed criteria (Annex 3).
4.15      School of Veterinary Medicine.  The 1975 FAO feasibility study
which has been reviewed by Bank Group staff, confirms the urgent need of a school
of veterinary medicine in Ethiopia.  As a result, the Government has decided
to establish the School at Debre Zeit adjacent to the existing Animal Health
Training Center. The School which is under the jurisdiction of the Higher
*    Education Commission, would have a five-year post-secondary program.  The
first year of pre-professional training would be given at the Addis Ababa
University. The planned facilities would provide places for about 30 students
in each of the four years at Debre Zeit for an enrollment of about 120 stu-
dents. The curriculum is designed to meet the specific animal health problems
of Ethiopia. The dean of the School has been appointed to take responsibility
for the development of staffing plans, detailed curricula and building design.
Funds would be provided to finance additional facilities to be shared by the
School and the Animal Health Institute. About 30% of the academic facilities
required and boarding and dining facilities are in place. A detailed staff
development plan satisfactory to the Association would be provided not later
than December 31, 1981 (para. 8.02(g)).
4.16      Monitoring and Evaluation Studies.  The changes in the educational
system which are now in process include major shifts in philosophy, policy
and structure. To ensure that changes are introduced smoothly and effectively,
the MOE is developing a system to evaluate the results of the modifications
as they are introduced (paras. 4.01, 4.12 and 4.13). Achievement tests,
tracer studies and other methods of evaluation, which are being developed by
the NCDD will measure the effects of: (a) changes in the school cycle;
(b) new curricula; and (c) methods in teacher training (para. 3.09). The
tests will be carried out with the assistance of the APCs. In addition, the
NCDC with the assistance of the APCs will also monitor and evaluate the CSTC
programs. The Government has provided assurances that: (a) specific pro-
posals concerning the evaluation studies would be presented to the Association
for review not later than November 30, 1981; and (b) semiannual reports would
be provided summarizing progress made in: the training of teachers (para
3.09); a recurrent cost analysis of the effects of the changes in the educa-
tional system (para. 3.19); and progress in curriculum development (para.
4.13). The semi-annual reports of MOE would supplement the EBCA annual
reports (para. 6.03) and would be a subject of consultation between the
Association and the Government.
4.17      The education system is attempting to respond to the nation's
manpower needs without the benefit of current measures of manpower supply and
demand, or forecasts against which to evaluate in the future, the performance
of the system and its institutions. The shortage of managers and skilled
categories of manpower is an acknowledged constraint on accelerated develop-
ment in all sectors, but particularly in agriculture. Agreement was obtained



- 18 -
that a survey of these manpower levels, with particular emphasis upon the
agriculture sector, would be carried out with the assisting services of
specialists to be financed under the project. The Government would prepare,
by December 31, 1981, in consultation with the Association, proposals and a
schedule for carrying out this component of the project (para. 8.02(i)).
4.18      The Government has provided assurances that as a part of project
evaluation, it would prepare and furnish to the Association within four months
of the project Closing Date, a report on the execution and initial operations
of the proposed project, its costs and the benefits derived, the performance
by the Government and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Credit Agreement, and significant lessons learned during project imple-
mentation (para. 8.02(j)). This report would be prepared by EBCA and MOE in
cooperation with the other agencies or departments involved, and would in-
corporate a review of monitoring and evaluation studies (para. 4.16).
Summary of Technical Assistance
4.19      Included in the project are:  (a) about three man-years of specialist
services to the EMPDA in building maintenance and equipment repair (para. 4.08);
(b) three man-years of specialist services for the PMO for organization and
management assistance (para. 6.01); (c) one man-year of specialist services in
accounting for PMO and EBCA (paras. 6.01 and 6.12); and (d) about 35 overseas
fellowships of about three months duration each for training in appropriate
technology (para. 4.09). All specialists would have qualifications and
experience, and be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Fellowship candidates would be selected in consultation with the
Association.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53.65 million
equivalent including import duties and taxes estimated at US$8.07 million.
The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in Annex 1,
T-4 and T-5 and are summarized as follows:



- 19 -
% of
Birr millions         US$ millions         Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Base Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture
Equipment, Vehicles and
Professional Services
1. Primary Schools         7.76   6.11  13.87   3.75   2.95   6.70    16.3
2. Additions to existing
Lower Secondary
Schools                15.05  16.10  31.15   7.27   7.78  15.05    36.6
3. Additions to existing
Higher Secondary
Schools                 4.67   5.05   9.72   2.26   2.44   4.70    11.4
4. Water Supply for
Secondary Schools       2.02   2.33   4.35   0.9;7   1.13   2.10        5.1
5. Maintenance Program
for School Build-
ings and Equipment    1.66   3.88   5.54   0.81   1.87   2.68           6.5
6. Awraja Pedagogical
Centers                 1.94   1.45   3.39   0.94   0.70   1.64         4.0
7. National Curriculum
Development Center    0.69   0.89   1.58   0.33   0.43   0.76           1.8
8. Community Skill
Training Centers        0.63   0.62   1.25   0.30   0.30   0.60         1.4
9. School of Vet-
erinary Medicine        0.97   0.98   1.95   0.47   0.47   0.94         2.3
Sub-Total I         35.39  37.41  72.80  17.10  18.07  35.17    85.4
II. Curriculum and
Staff Development          5.02   1.26   6.28   2.42   0.61   3.03         7.4
III. Technical Assistance
and Fellowships            0.47   1.86   2.33   0.23   0.90   1.13         2.7
IV. Project Administration   2.32   1.47   3.79   1.12   0.71   1.83            4.5
Sub-Total II-IV      7.81   4.59  12.40   3.77   2.22   5.99    14.6
Total Base Cost
I-IV (March 1981)         43.20  42.00  85.20  20.87  20.29  41.16    100%
V. Contingencies
1) Physical (5%)           2.16   2.10   4.26   1.04   1.02   2.06
2) Price (24%)            13.28   8.31  21.59   6.42   4.01  10.43
Sub-Total V         15.44  10.41  25.85.  7.46   5.03  12.49
Total Project (I-V)          58.64  52.41 111.05  28.33  25.32  53.65
of which taxes               16.70    -    16.70   8.07    -         8.07



- 20 -
5.02      Civil works, furniture and equipment costs have been derived from
quotations received for similar items in education projects (Credits
417-ET and 553-ET) and other projects, with adjustments to reflect changes in
existing standardized building designs and master lists of furniture and
equipment. These changes promote a reduction of unit costs through simplifi-
cation of building designs, maximum use of local materials, and simple
building techniques.  The proposed schedules of 2accommodation are functional,
austere and unit cos s of construction, US$60/m equivalent for primary
schools and US$130/m equivalent for secondary school laboratories and work-
shops are among the lowest compared to similar institutions financed in other
Bank Group education projects in the Eastern Africa Region. Furniture and
equipment would be kept to a minimum and of a type pertinent to the basic
needs of the country to accomplish the educational objectives of the project.
Unit cost of technical assistance specialists to be recruited internationally
is US$96,000 equivalent per staff-year which includes salary, housing, travel
and allowances, and US$12,000 equivalent per staff-year for locally recruited
nationals.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported items, will be subject to
taxation. The Government will supplement the budget of the various Government
agencies by the amount of taxation which is estimated at US$8.07 million
equivalent.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 6% has been
added to the base cost. Price contingencies have been calculated by applying
to the base costs (as of March, 1981) the following percentage rates of price
escalation in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex I, T-6):
Local       Foreign
1981                     15%           9.0%
1982                     12%           8.5%
1983-85                  11%           7.5%
These price increases are projections based upon
the most recent available information.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has been
calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 40%; (b) professional services, 50%
(c) furniture, 42%; (d) equipment and vehicles 72%; (e) project administration,
curriculum and staff development, 20%; and (e) technical assistance, 80%. In-
cluding contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$25.3
million equivalent or 47% of the total cost (56%, net of taxes).



- 21 -
Financial Plan
5.06      The financial plan provides for IDA assistance of SDR 28.2 million
(US$35.0 million equivalent), or 77% of the project cost net of taxes as
follows:
US$ millions
Gov't of           IDA
Ethiopia          Credit          Total
1.   Civil Works                       6.60             14.00          20.60
2.   Furniture                         0.49              1.65           2.14
3.   Equipment/Vehicles                3.43              9.60          13.03
4.   Curriculum and Staff
Development                    0.59              2.45           3.04
5.   Technical Assistance              0.22              0.90           1.12
6.   Professional Services             0.02              0.05           0.07
7.   Project Administration            0.21              0.95           1.16
8.   Contingencies                     7.09              5.40          12.49
Total                   18.65             35.00          53.65
of which taxes                   8.07                -            8.07
(net of taxes 45.58)
The EEC, SIDA and UNICEF are assisting elements related to the project but
formal cofinancing arrangements are not contemplated. Recurrent costs
generated by the project are estimated at about Birr 15 million p.a. starting
in 1985 or about 4% of the estimated recurrent education expenditure in
1985/86 (paras. 3.16, 3.17 and Annex 1, T-3).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01      Project Administration.  The Project Management Office (PMO) of MOE
would be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. It would
provide the linkage between the Government and the Association, and would
coordinate the implementation responsibilities of EBCA, EMPDA and other
agencies involved in the project. The EBCA (formerly RPA) would have dele-
gated financial and administrative responsibility for the civil works com-
ponents of the project. The PMO and EBCA would be adequately staffed to
enable them to carry out the responsibilities described in Annex 2, and the
qualifications of appointees to the posts of Project Manager, Coordinator,
Engineer and Accountant of the PMO would be acceptable to the Association.
The appointment of the Project Manager, the Coordinator, Engineer and Accountant
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 8.03). Included in the



- 22 -
project are about three man years of specialist services to assist EMPDA in
the organization and operation of maintenance services for buildings and
equipment, three man-years to assist PMO in project coordination, and about
one man-year to strengthen the accounting systems of PMO and EBCA. Proposals
and a schedule for strengthening accounting practices would be forwarded to
the Association for review and comment (paras. 6.12 and 8.02(k)).
6.02      Because of the decline in the private construction industry, the
remoteness and inaccessibility of the majority of sites, and the proven
ability of RPA on past education projects to build economically and efficiently,
the EBCA would be responsible for the construction, using their own departmental
forces (utilizing force account method), of all institutions to be established
under the project except the water supply work, the NCDC and the School of
Veterinary Medicine. Construction by EBCA would include: (a) 350 primary
schools, (b) expansion of 90 lower and 15 higher secondary schools, (c) 40
Awraja Pedagogical Centers, (d) 40 Community Skill Training Centers with
assistance from peasant associations, and (e) maintenance facilities. EBCA
would also provide transport of materials and equipment, and supply technical
assistance for the SIDA-financed 1,650 primary schools to be constructed by
the Peasant Associations (para. 4.02).
6.03      MOE through the PMO would: (a) provide, before the beginning of each
Ethiopian fiscal year (July 7), a work plan and a budget satisfactory to the
Association for construction work by the EBCA departmental forces, for project
administration and for all expenses to be reimbursed against a statement of
expenditure; (b) advance funds as required to EBCA to ensure timely implemen-
tation of work by EBCA; and (c) submit each year thereafter, an annual report
indicating actual work completed as compared with the plan. The annual
reports of EBCA and PMO will be the subject of consultations between IDA and
the Government in the course of project supervision (para. 8.02(e)).
6.04      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Design and
supervision of all construction work except for the School of Veterinary
Medicine would be carried out by EBCA. Standardized building designs pre-
viously developed would be modified where appropriate for these facilities.
6.05      Design and supervision of construction of the School of Veterinary
Medicine would be carried out by local architects/engineers to be selected
and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
consultants would be under the supervision of EBCA. Professional services
(equivalent to about 2 1/2 man-years) are estimated at an average man-year
rate of US$12,000 equivalent. This includes salaries overhead and fees.
6.06      Site Selection.  While satisfactory sites have been selected for
the NCDC and the School of Veterinary Medicine, all other locations and
sites would be selected on the basis of agreed criteria (Annex 3).



- 23 -
Procurement
6.07      All civil works except the Water Supply Work, the NCDC and the
School of Veterinary Medicine would be carried out by departmental forces of
EBCA utilizing force account methods (para. 6.02). Contracts for furniture,
equipment and vehicles and imported construction materials would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's Guidelines for procurement except as follows:
(a) furniture, equipment and construction material contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and
(b) construction of the NCDC, the Water Supply Work and the
School of Veterinary Medicine.
These items (a and b) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association (estimated at US$4.8 million equivalent). Construction work
involving the drilling of wells and construction of the NCDC and the School of
Veterinary Medicine are unlikely to attract foreign contractors not already
working in Ethiopia due to their small size and in the case of the water
supply, their scattered and remote locations. Contracts to be awarded by ICB,
including contingencies, are estimated at about US$3.9 million equivalent for
imported construction materials and US$17.6 million equivalent for furniture,
equipment and vehicles.
6.08      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction materials, furniture and equipment indicating proposed
grouping and estimates of costs would be reviewed by the Association. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding
and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior
to award would be required only for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent for
civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for equipment, furniture and construction
materials.
6.09      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used; (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a pre-
ference of 15%, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers and (b) if applicable,
qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2% over prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
6.10      Disbursement (Annex 1, T-7) would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, and equipment including vehicles;
(b) 85% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
furniture, equipment and vehicles;



- 24 -
(c)  80% of expenditures for civil works and locally procured
construction materials;
(d)  80% of local and 100% of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance, professional services, curriculum and staff
development, including fellowships and the manpower study,
and incremental expenses for project administration for EBCA;
and
(e)  65% of total expenditures for locally procured imported
furniture, equipment and vehicles.
6.11      All disbursements would be fully documented except disbursements
for project administration, curriculum and staff development and work executed
by departmental forces (force account), which would be made against a statement
of expenditures, documentation of which would not be submitted for review but
would be retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by
the Association in the course of supervision. Based upon experience in the
third and fourth IDA education projects and with the proposed strengthening of
accounting procedures (para. 6.01), the MOE and the EBCA have satisfactory
institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure procedure.
6.12      Auditing would be required on a yearly basis for expenditures
incurred by EBCA and MOE related to the project with particular attention to
expenditures reimbursed against statements of expenditures. Auditing would
be performed by the Government-s Audit Service Cooperation or other independent
auditors appointed in consultation with, and acceptable to, the Association.
The technical assistance specialists (para. 6.01) would provide advice to EBCA
to strengthen its accounting procedures. Annual audits would be provided to
the Association within six months after the end of each fiscal year of the
Government.
6.13      The project would be implemented in about four years, including six
months for finalization of accounts and withdrawals (Annex 1, T-6), after
credit effectiveness with a completion date of March 31, 1985, and a Closing
Date of September 30, 1985. The implementation schedule has been prepared
realistically and takes account of the experience under previous education
projects assisted by IDA in Ethiopia.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would provide financial and technical assis-
tance to restructure the education and training system towards the objective
of ensuring that education outputs can contribute more effectively to
Ethiopia-s development. In addition, recent changes in the country s develop-
ment policy, such as land tenure reform, strengthening local government and
emphasis on rural development, are all dependent upon an effective educa-
tional system for their implementation. All items included in the project,
in both the formal and non-formal education sectors, would assist the country



- 25 -
in attaining its development objectives by generating important benefits,
specifically with regard to educational quality, manpower training and
equalization of educational opportunity.
7.02      Educational Quality.  The process of encouraging local involvement
in the educational system would result in qualitative improvements by making
education more responsive to local needs together with improved school
supervision and services (para. 3.05). The proposed curriculum revision
would be a significant benefit as would the intensified and regionally based
inservice teacher training programs.
7.03      Manpower Development.  The increased emphasis on practical subjects
and community development activities in the Education Plan should produce
manpower capable of making immediate contributions to development and more
readily employable in rural areas. The major emphasis on non-formal, adult
education through the CSTCs, and the APCs should equip a large, new cadre of
people to play a truly productive role in the development process and enable
them to improve their living standards. In the rural areas alone it is esti-
mated that 275,000 new jobs would be created during the next ten years
(paras. 2.07 and 2.08).
7.04      Educational Opportunity.  The expansion of enrollments at primary
and secondary levels would go a long way towards adjusting past imbalance in
the geographical distribution of schools. Almost all of the proposed expan-
sions would take place in the rural areas where educational opportunities
have been the poorest and employment opportunities are expected to increase.
As a result of the Plan, and particularly of the school location criteria
promoted under the project, enrollment ratios at the primary level in
the most disadvantaged provinces would approximate the national average by
the mid-1980s. At the secondary level, the proportion of total enrollment in
Addis Ababa, Shoa and Eritrea (47% of the total in 1976/77) would decrease
to about 30% by the mid-1980s in favor of a more even distribution of oppor-
tunities.
7.05      Employment Creation.  The construction of the schools, CSTCs and
APCs is expected to create approximately 2,300 man-years of employment pri-
marily in rural areas where these institutions would be built. The EBCA
already has a heavy ongoing construction program so additional workers will
be required to construct the new educational institutions. When completed,
the institutions included in the project would provide permanent employment
for over 3,000 additional staff.
7.06      The proposed project incorporates many ideas innovative to Ethiopia.
While innovation should be encouraged, it can also be expected to pose unfore-
seen problems and difficulties. In order to ensure success of the project,
considerable care and thought have gone into the analysis of the change
process and safeguards have been built into the system including increased
school supervision, staff training programs and an evaluation system.
7.07      Finally, recurrent cost difficulties could be experienced by the
Government (paras. 3.15 - 3.19); therefore continuous review of the Education
Plan and regular appropriate adjustments are essential.



- 26 -
7.08      In spite of these risks, the project includes objectives and
potential benefits which indicate its appropriateness and potential to assist
the country s overall development strategy, to stimulate the development
process by changing educational objectives and to increase mass participation
in education, training and development.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Government provided; (a) a satisfactory
administrative and operational plan for the maintenance program indicating
the relationship between the EMPDA and the building maintenance unit including
the phasing of the establishment of the additional posts required (para.
4.08); and (b) information regarding its plan to strengthen the EBCA's
accounting procedures (para 6.12).
8.02      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) the teacher training provisions of the Plan would be carried
out and modifications reported semi-annually and discussed
with the Association (para. 3.11);
(b)  a recurrent cost analysis of the effects of changes in the
educational system would be submitted semi-annually and
reviewed in consultation with the Association (para. 3.19);
(c) site and school selection for the location of primary schools,
secondary schools, Community Skill Training Centers, and Awraja
Pedagogical Centers would be in accordance with the criteria
outlined in Annex 3, (paras. 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.10 and 4.14);
(d) an annual report and work program, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, indicating budgetary allocations and expenditures,
personnel training and work executed under its maintenance
program, would be furnished to the Association (para. 4.08).
(e) candidates for fellowship training in appropriate technology
would be selected in consultation with the Association
(para. 4.09);
(f) semi-annual reports on progress in curriculum development would
be submitted to the Association for review (para. 4.13);
(g) a staff development plan for the School of Veterinary
Medicine satisfactory to the Association would be provided
by December 31, 1981 (para. 4.15);
(h) by November 30, 1981, specific proposals on the evaluation
studies would be presented to the Association for review
(para. 4.16);



- 27 -
(i) by December 31, 1981 proposals and a work schedule for
carrying out the manpower study would be prepared in con-
sultation with the Association (para 4.17);
(j) not later than four months from the Closing Date; the MOE
would provide the Association with a report on the execution
and initial operations of the project (para. 4.18);
(k) proposals and a schedule for strengthening the accounting
practices of PMO and EBCA would be forwarded to the Association
for review and comment (para. 6.01);
(1) it would provide, prior to the beginning of each Ethiopian fiscal
year, (a) a work plan and budget satisfactory to the Association,
for construction work by EMCA departmental forces, project
administration and all expenses to be reimburse-i against a statement
of expenditure, (b) advance to EBCA on a quarterly basis funds as
required to ensure timely implementation of construction work and
other administrative activities, and (c) an annual report to the
Association indicating the actual work completed as compared with
the plan (para. 6.03); and
(m)  a yearly audit of EBCA and MOE expenditures related to the project
with particular attention to expenditures reimbursed against state-
ments of expenditures would be performed by the Government's Audit
Service Corporation or other independent auditors appointed in con-
sultation with the Association and including advice to EBCA to
strengthen its accounting procedures. These audits would be pro-
vided to the Association within six months after the end of each
fiscal year of the Government (para. 6.12).
8,03      In addition to the customary conditions, the appointment of the
Project Manager, Coordinator, Architect/Engineer and Accountant would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.01).
8.04      Subject to the foregoing conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 28.2 million (US$35.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to Ethiopia.



-28-
ANNEX I
CCJMPARA.TIVE                              -               - AT11..1.11C.TlSTABLE   1
...   .   ... .  A c                                           ~ ~~Page   1   of   2
APRIL 8, 1981
I                                                                                                                                            I                        
2  2NP/ 2 I GNP  IS TOTALII   0F PUBLIC1 2                                      PI :vPI. 22                             29 2E2
ICAPITA: DtVOTEE:PU8LIC    E508T00             LI IR    PRI,  2COMPLE- :3T7U- :SC.9A9PRTE32   EC    STA.  :IGIOER,
2.  AT   2To E0U.2  LOP.  R0 RCURRENT          IlACY    2ENROLL2TrON        :IE9TI:OALAR`Y 0N5100N RATE 2ENROLL2IDENTSENROLL2S
A941581-EVUWCZrYDEVOTEDTUXrILTOOSTEDC--ATE-TWOTWIA TETOTP                 `E1WE3ATTONC1-8RUKWFRT1-OWA7100 PE-R  I9RATO
* PO.:RCS    A. ato                        TO:       ot1  OF  I NET I :PRI.3C0,:TFAC9:  TO GNP/ !TD SEC.   2  ET   270EAC.  GROSS:
,,,,,KLL8.I {USmI  DWL)2  EDU. 20.SEC. HI.,ADULTO): (0)  2CYC EC%):ER    2 CAPT                            2(1         2()   tER           1
2 E) II2  (2)  2  (31    2   4)   1         IS)       2(6)    2 (7)  2  98)    1(9) !(10)    :(01)                 2(I12)   2(13) 2(143   a
AUSTRIA          78    7.19 5,6206       5.3Y    8.5EY  288  51Y  15Y   99             90        930      260       2.00       990       510      190    16.89Y
tCANADA          7S  23.  9,o7           7 .3P    I6.F    25    39    23      99       99       100        21       2.08      100        90       08     22.80
GF18ANY P.93P.70  41,4  9,689o           5.8F  10.2F....                      99       RP.8 ..    ... 99 g10 00                          98       220    12.00
;A AN            75 111II ,8,59          4.-SE  20.71-   UUY 3~7UT IIUY  99            990       99C       25       Z.0 U-   -99C        958Y   280;   24.69Y
NgTHE RLANDS    78 I13:'  8,399          9.4F  22.80    20    35    28         9       96        93        19       2.oF       99        82       13      12.30
NEW8 ZEALAND    73    3.1G 0,200G        5.2      .       39    20    29      99       99        99       26        ,,         9         67       19     24.08
NOBBA"Y          76    4,0  8,0831       7:8    18.8      54   28    15       99       99        99q      1l        1.         9999      62C      11     11.80
SWEDEN           76    a8I2O,15          8a8     140      23    29     12     99       99        99       18        ...        90)       850      13     30.oCC
02.B.            75  56,0   5,789        7.1    13.9      26    41    18a     9   99  g          ...      20        2.0      - ...       68       17   - 21.000
--      0Et;no             5.4g --- IS-.           l    -T8-  -99        9     m        2             7.          97        9T      19H 06     0
EUROPE
fEECE           76    91   2,59o        9A      104      37    26Y  21       868      99X      820       31       2.9         TOE       80x      27     159
IRLAD             8    3.10  2,6000oG            1390     43   418  1894       8     1040        99A      39       ..           54       694      19     15,87
ANI41          79   1. 1 ,28409        80       6.8      36    19    13     98       1018      2.               1 ..         98        49       22      10.00
3ESIN            74  15.84 2,9900        8.48   15.2A   491  289   159    946    11889           ..        398A     .           ...,     78xV   30       17.68Y
IUEERII;         Pt18.5   1,r269O    7.1-- z r?--?;l-549- Zb6521K-  35H    291KU                 07        3'Tr-      K0-    5ZKT-338y- -371--5.00KK
REIN           74    1.20    18o0      7.28   36.0Y   870D  230   190    110         4408      TOB      53Y      89.08       838       1198    394       0.788
SVAONA        7     8.8     629       5.o    19,        8     396 " 13     35       80        70       31        9.0        S0        20       22       1,50
8880611          7081           1380     :.7    22.       869 338  218    25           830       45        32       90         22          30     16       0,5
CS8EPDOE    7~6   7.7      314       3.7    81.5      13   83 29          ...     60        oS        52      8.o0                    90     248       909C8
9..8     4    1.88   _2208       8.00   17.00-S6e   198 ..            ..      7909      25        699      ...         19         809    2788    9.21Y
TS10     5    1--;Io              .070to                     ...              29309'   39         659Y   T75.4o        -a         ZoST   30       0;ooiv
CONGOOI          74    1 3F   519F       6.8    19,3      88    32   81       5O1    1338        63       63       - 6.8       88        SIx      02       3.880
78"T    l   s8o7        490      S.S     .,.      38   35 a76         480     77        89        387       ...        82        4 9      1 77    25.08
E THIOPIA       79   31.0      138       2.2    11.1      ... ..              1        38        ..        59       .. .       ...         9-     41
9"I'M            74    8.58 2,549F       3.90  20.60    259 - 90   LI11       ...    0008        250      860       9.0        18A       318      010      8.298
BARRIA           76    5.5      17o      .3   031.5        06    25     6     t10      27        90        33      ...         92        13       85
78    P-9p    59-0w  ..    191-fl   93r-72   2897   ...      6037      629       3078    ...         188       3589'.   1607     1.59
GuINEA           76    4.7     1898      4.580 ...        39    30    39      ...      198       68       88       12.0F         86        138     26       4.00
38089 COAST    76    7,0       610       6.9    23.0      33    86    13       98      sI        86       43        7.0        47        1707    26        1.648
REtgNA           79   3s5.     389       5.9   08.8       71    15   18       85       92        78       80        6.0        Al        19       28       1.0
LR8DOTHO - -79   1I3 --  ;043J1Ir0-2                      4`1 8I29-r20    _5? 2        60-8-      ---    09-0----                       3 -23             8.98
LIBERIA          77    1,7     439       8.0    12.9      23    IS   26       30       5ix       ...      54        4.0        76        088      IA       .:
PBASAGASCAR      77    R,9     24o       8.     28.       5 2    8    1       5        9         3        8         6. OH      3V        18       23       1,70
JLAI    79    59       201       2.8     9.38      0    203 23        83      590      1373       608       5,0        119        4      20       0,31
AOXL!            75    978       "08     8.2m  33.OF   850  37F  lopF         lOp      2208      ..        48F     9.58         -         AF  x   20
MAURITANIA       71    1. 38    32F      8.18     O:O *98 .100....                     170Y      .       220         .          .          3oY   280
21 AUO9ITIfS - 6         0-9 9L     - 1O -7         21842Ot-E9                           93t      99        04        '45         90       45       32      T5
Ka980990         76   10.2     529       6.3     152      39 R 888   138    28         680       35        39       6.00       80        208      81      4,00
81098            77   8,9       I60      z.80 I2.20 -  92-3             5      a8      17        so       39       10,8          39       2       24       ..
IGE981A         74  7S,OF    3898        4.109 *4.20Y  23V   168  409    ...          8909      ...       3008      ...        ...      1008    2808Y   0.48Y
:WANDA           73    0.1     18crO    3.29   28.80  .. .... 23                       52        ...      51        ..          ,.        2       13      9.23CT
SENEGAL          77    5,2     828       5.0    23.0      86    34   20       10       32- ,  -           09       100         20        I00      21      1.5
SERRA LEONE   73    3,OF   2008         3.4    23.8      31    36    30    -is?-308            o         32-    4   .09 O -   60        13x0    21-- 0.5308
ORRIIALIB        78    4,0      i8s      2.8    11.0      S5    10   21       50       84      ...        32        4.0        80         5       IS       1.08
S6AN0            76  15.9      290       4.9    19.9)    48    36    16       20       38       74        33        3.8        33        18       28        1,24
"WA0ZILAND       78    9.5     368       6.18   22.2      37    33   23       65       980       09       37        8.08       66        32X      20        2.OOX
'EZAN!ANO        7   07.      823o       6.86     5.      43     19   18      66G      96        87       98        3.0         9-       -   - 200        0.38
188D             77    2.4     30o       5.5    26.:5,    309   28   20       15       78       40        98        6.0        52         -       44      2,088
9082320          78-   o.   3,130        7.      1.       4             8     62t100            NO        39        60    30             30       30      6,0
0G4900           70    1.      000       3'4DY 119.:07D   34EV  48E9 2007   05A        530       ...       59       .:..       19         69 81           956
UPPER VOLTA    77    5,A        118      3.8    23.9-    31    16    32        59      03        83       50       204-0       19         2  - 25          1,0
lIXRE            76  25,6       040      6.0    22.0      49   26   25        15       868       84       820       2.9        41        130(    27-  1.091
1894830          40    5.7      345       5.4    10.1     48    23   22        44      9814     89        048       7.o  -   19          17       22      1.58
SeNTRAL 0888190 AN0 THE CARIBBEAN                              ----
8690808  79    0,2  2,~~~78      6.88   09,1       36,  36    10      93       99        97        2"       4.0        97        75       19       ..
SOARBAD          76    9.2   1, 620      81      22.1     43    31    IA      9       1060       99       2l        0.         99        949X    17
CoST   8808C    78    2.1    1648        6.6    33.0       370  273   30      90        3        7         2          ,         7        3.D9            1.0
CUBA             78    9,5   1,888       5.5    02.8  ...         '..         96       90        90       22    -2.7           98        69       i  15   5.80
D6NINIOKN EEP.7 12      .4 `O-79OG0    3_.0_  1 3_.9      48    24    22      Si       89        17       54        3.09       63        18       28      7.900
EL SALVADOR    77    4.0       570       40.    27.0      64      8    27     62       880       32        39       8.2        41        23       21      7.89
OUATEMALA        73   6,0      7o         . 2     6.8 OOG23            14     47       64        06        39u      3.0        69         8       25      4,099
FAIl             76    4.7      209       .       80       A     21    11     28       25F       13       560       3.0        62          4      ,..       97
MRNDOURA         75   21-90    8098      4.28   18.00    621   JSG  090    69          78        30        35       3.0        68        11       17      4.98
JARMAICA         76    2.1  1,070        4.8    16.8       37    33   22      868      91        52        39       8.4        94        64       25      7,58
AK      75  589.V  3,I859-       3.100  12.800   5379  230F  1-27    7s      37120      T1        I6        3.0        83        3508    234      8.97Ev
NICARAGUA        79    2.)      660      3.0    14.0      61E   131  13E    908        61        204       44        2.00       930       000     3772.O0E
PAAAM90          78    1.88  0,221       5.8     ;;:       429   13H  13      820,    97         82E       32H      3.0        085       49       34      000
TINIDADB. 77    1.0 2,085               4.541.            8    32   00       9       go        9         30        30         49        62      234     2:
80079 AMERICA
881E;1NT28       7a  76.7   1,910        4.4    10.4       839   320   18H    93       89        92        07       2.0        87        3 1       8     83.88
BOLIVIA          76    5.8      3058     5.      17.58"........ 8409                   408       240       04       58          ...        4s     18D0      .
BRA11L           75 11,1    ,3800        2.88   12.4      42E   20E  22H   648         800       ...       270CY      .   ...            26G      1909    8.006
CNCLE            75   00.30 1,0590       3.889  12.588   S3  09 IOYS7    ...    11909            ...       390      ...        ..        4808    ...    06.559
CAL ORBIB        74  20.39    6590       3.309 21.209   44D8 2208 118    73           10909      20        339      4.0        90o       3689    148       6.879
Cyvi60I         75    7 S;    ToG        3 1-7   ?7.7C....... 69                     18zx       ...       SOC                           3x        8
08U9880          74    4,OSo              .N   18.70    47    35    14        830      920       39        33       6.0         191620            28C      1,00
PABAUAV        79    3.90    8590K      1.0    18.2      42    17     a20   84       82        32        28        1.6        75        22      12       7.99
PetU             75   16:.00    84860    4.2011 21.1708   40*  229   158    72        11188V    00         3909      3.0        70       QOxy    2IDY   14.41Y
8880088Y         78    .8r 1,79          23      15.3     46    34   20       94       930        ,        28         .        83        ..       0
VENEZUELA        75  12. 38 2,S 4OG      4.6    09.9       3Soc288a3510   77A          82SI3                         .                   ... 33     *    22.398



- 29 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)
Page 2of 2
APRIL 8, 1981
G NP/ 2   GNP   :  TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                       :              IPPI. :AV.PRI.                           :SEC   I 
ICAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC t EOUCATION    ILITER-   PRI. aComPLE- :STIJ- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHLRI
:   AT   S To EDOJ.:   EXP.  RECURRENT    lACY               :ENROLL:TInN       :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE  1ENROLL:DENTSSENROLL:
pop.;MARKE~T; C?UaLIC:DEVOTED IExp ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION  :FROSa PRI.:RATIO :PER   :RATIO I
o.   PRICESS  RA(P.    I  TO    I      TO'       aCI OF   : NET   !PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.     NFT   :TEACH- GROSS.
YRiMILLS.: CUSS): OJNLY)          EDU. :PRT. SEC. HI.tADULTS): Ci)   :CYCLEC%):ER                CAPITA        (I() :C)    ER              M s 
(1) 1: (2) 1(3)              ( C)                      ( S) C)    1 (7)  a(8)        (9) I(II)    I(ii)           :(12)   :(13) :(14) 
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFgHANISTAN    77M 14.3         I80G      1.A    11.6      47    19    15      12      298       69        37        3.uG        62        8x      17      1.00
SANGLADtSH       73  80.4G       9Q1;     i.2    20.2      441  22Y  21Y   23D         569       ..        480       ...        ...       2390D   28       ..
INDIA            75 620.4G    5406       2.6VY  ...        ... .... 298                65XY      ..        43A       ...        ...       299Y    2OAY    2.34EV
INDONESIA        78 136.0       360      2.4      9.1      260   32G  150    62        92        48        32        3.0        70        :9      17       2.00
IRAN             73  53.bG 2,060G        3.3    12.6      Sol  188   128    50         77        74A       32        5.08       ODA       24      32       'l.32CY
IRAQ             75   Il.SG I,390G       6.TC   16.308 ..             . ...    26C     93XY      ..        22        ...        ...       35xY    26C      8.47Y
JORDAN           77    2.3      997      4.SK    7.1K    258  5OR    3R   70           97X       81        32        2.0        9j        68      22      10.60
KOREA            78  37.0  1,242         2.8    17.5       35    29    36     93      1029       94        49        2.9        91        60      45      18.00
LEBANON          72    3.2G 1,07oG        3.5    18.0      39    40    10     68       86        65        19        2.0        63        260     25      23.00
MALAYSIA         76   12.6     860       6.7    26.0       42    34    15     60C      95        q3        32        3.7        78        48      28       3.00
NEPAL            B0   13.3      lIOH     2.4      8.8      27    18    38      19F     77        30        36K       2.3G       ...       16      28K
OMAN             72    0*8F 2,SOOF        1.VN    3.8      96     -   -       20       24X       99        27F       7.0        ...       0.4X      9
PAKISTAN         79  78. 0      270       2.0     7.2      39    26   27      24       569       50P       48        2.OF       ...       20i      17      A.O;OF
PAPUA N.G.       75   2*BG    ASOG       5.6    16.1       38    16   24      32       57?       73P       31       11.0        g0        12x?    24       0.90?
PMILIPPINES    74  43.2G    4200         2.5    14.9       73    15    12     BOL    104X9        .        34       15.0        ...       46X     ...    21.00
SINGAPORE        74    2.3G 2,5801G      2.7Y    9.2Y    39,   39Y  17Y    79A    109Iy          72A       31Y       ...        99A       8axy    28       7.68Y
S YRPIA          78    7.91    900       4 .4    10.3      39    25    26     58       89X       80        35        2. 0       6 8       45X     21      12.60
THAILAND         77  44.1       410      4.OV  20.0        55.  30    15      84F      83        30        35        5.00       70        28      25       3.00
TUIRKEY          73  40.9G l,01o0        5.6CY 20.6CY   ...       ... ..A.8YP                     .        349Y      ..          .        24y     ATOY    5.83y
YEMEN            73    5.4G    3000      0.5      4.0      45P  2lP  23P    10         159       18        36        5.0        75         2r     19       0.0S8Y
YEMEN P.D.R.   76    1.7        280      6.6      ..       57    28     8     20       899       48        30       5.0         94       21x      24       0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                     99      93      01    90    88      82      1900       78       99           7 4L    82        98       96        86
RANGE,                      1~~~~~~~~~~~0.5-   (3.8-   (20- (8-   (3.    (5-  (13-  (13-      (16-       (1.5-    (8-        (.4..    (8-      (.01-
12.0 j 36.0)    96 ) 72)  50)   99)           133X)    99 I       69        25.0 )  100)         97  )  45)    41.0)
SUARTILES:UPPER 15.8    21.2                            49    35    22      07       98        91       82           6       91        48       25      11.0
MEDIAN:                    4.?    16.0      42    26    18      57      88        65        34          4        68        24       22      3.4
LOWER 1                    3.0    12.4      34    21    13      25      56        33        29          2        Al        Il       18      1.0
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                   A:1970 OR REFORE            MHCURRENT PRICFR                             SOUNCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8:1971                              H:GDP----
?  GUESTIONA8LE                       Cx1972                       PZINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      COLUMNSI! AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D*1973                              O=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                             OR I8R0 MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY             Ex1974                        R=MINISTRY (IF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                    3 TU 14 I88R) MISSIONS
4**  UNDER REVIEW                       F=1975                        S:MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
0:1976                       T:EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                        STATI5TICAL
H:1977                       UUPUBLIC ONLY                                                   YEARBOOK
K:1978                       V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
L=1979                       X=INCLUDING OVERA6ED STUDENTS
M:1980                       Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARAYTIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWE VERPON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED *ITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA P?RESENTED IN TME ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LAkGELY BY THE BANK( MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDER ARE SIAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO) STANDARDIZE DEFINIIIONS AND wITHIN LImITS, TO) CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OR ITS OPERATIONAL WnRK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOILLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SROULU) BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(1):EDUCATIUNI As DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(21PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS To EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEE AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES"(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED ?ROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCICUNTRlES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT Is
MOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'L11'ERATE- HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,9 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENOITIJRES DEVOTED To EDUCATIUN BY
PuBLIC AND QUA31-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(S5)ENROLLMENT RkTIOS"(COLS T. 12 AND t4) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SIUBJECT TO A RIDE MARGIN OiF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
PREDUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments and Additional Teacher Requirements of
Primary and Secondary Schools
1979/80-1985/86
Additional
Prinary Education                                                                                             Age Group.   Teachers
(Estimate)           Grade 1     Grade 2      Grade 3    Grade 4    Grade 5    Grade 6         Total   Participation  Required
1979/80                 791,282      341,359      223,812    178,918    143,307    132,573    1,811,253         38.0%       30,600 (Current
Stock)
1982/83               1,001,000      441,100      354,000    278,000    235,000    225,000    2,535,000         48.0%       23,800
1985/86               1,700,000      743,000      600,000    470,000    400,000    380,000    4,290,000         76.0%       35,100
Total New Requirements:       58,900
1988/89 (est. UPE)
Lower Secondary         Grade 7      Grade 8      Grade 9    Grade 10                            6,000,000    100.0%                               I
1979/80                 103,417       82,667       70,388     49,527                               306,000      11.0%        7,460 (Current       
Stock)
1982/83                 118,500      105,000       86,400     60,000                               370,000      12.5%        1,060
1985/86                 158,000      140,000     115,000      80,000                               493,000      16.0%        1,060
Total New Requirements:        2,120
Higher Secondary        Grade 11    Grade 12
1979/80                  38,911       26,391                                                        65,302       5.1%        1,500 (Current
Stock)
1982/83                  47,000       34,000                                                        81,000       6.1%          440
1985/86                  63,000       45,000                                                       108,000       8.0%          430
Total New Requirements:          870 2/
1/  Based on teacher:student ratio of 1:50 and 63% teaching on double shift by 1985/86.
2/ Based on teacher:student ratio of 1:30 and 50% teaching on double shift by 1983.
Sources:  Ministry of Education and Bank Group staff estimates.                                                            February 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3
ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Expenditure on Education
Total Government Expenditure and GDP
Actuals FY1972/73-FY1978/79; Projections FY1985/86
(Birr Million at 1976/77 Prices)
TGovernment
Expenditure
Government    (2):(l)  I    on          (4):(2)  (4):(l)
Fiscal Year            GDP    Expenditure   Percent   Education1/  Percent  Percent
(1)        (2)          (3)         (4)          (5)       (6)
Actuals
1972/73               6,505         787         12.1        148         18.8      2.3
1973/74               6,603         792         12.0        150         18.9      2.3
1974/75               6,610       1,124         17.0        185         16.5      2.8
1975/76               6,762       1,244         18.4        169         13.6      2.5
1976/77               6,803       1,277         18.8        159         12.5      2.3
1977/78               6,728       1,480         22.0        141          9.5      2.1
1978/79               7,078       1,430         20.2        159        11.1       2.2
Projections
1985/86/-'            9,455       1,920         20.3        370         19.3      3.9
Source: Ministry of Education and World Bank staff estimates. March 1981
I/ Includes the Ministry of Education and Universities; excludes expenditures on
education and training under other Ministries.
2/ The GDP projection assumes a rate of growth of 4% p.a. between 1979/80 and
1985/86. The ratio of total Government expenditure to GDP is assumed to
remain at the average level of the last three years. Expenditure on education
is taken from the Government's Ten-Year Plan.



I



ETHilOPIA
SSUIIARY OP ENROLLMENT AND ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
F10011 EDUCATION PROJECT
OXCASS   RATE :I UsS  -   2.070 ODORR
SCALE FACTOR:  (0005,5   (0005'S
SO.   AREA1       SITS DHVELPM               BUILDING                FUONETUROC             EQUIP & 00CR            PROF. SORVCS             COT/STAFF SO             TECSI.AST/POL           PROJ. 00810           PROJECT TO BTIRR        900
NO0.    FF502121 ITEM                                      PLACES SQ. E4TLOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL LOCAL FOREICN  TOTAL LOCAL 703010N  TOTAL LOCAL FORECIGN  TOTAL LOCAL F0OREIGN  TOTAL LOCAL FOOREIGN  TOTAL LOCAL PORTIGN  TOTAL LOCAL PORTION  TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  TOTAL
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           ------- - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - --.-- ----- - - -                                      --- - - - - - - --    - -        - - - - - - -  -------------- ---- --- ---- ------ --
I1.S.     PRIMATY SCHOOLS
0.0.1    350 SCHiOOLS                                       70000   00500       373   240       622  0220   4150   10374   604          503     1107    471   1210       1601-                                                                                                     7763   6111  13874   ROOD
Z,.O.   LOWDa SECONDARYT SCHOOLS
2.0.!    ADDITION TO 90 EXIST. SCHOOLS                        7200  359950   1303   020        2320  0284   6109   13073  1220          000     20104  3140   0097   11246-    15051  16103  31150  13050
3.0.0    010GH00 SECONDARYT SCHOOLS-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                466     08 074            69
3.E.1    ADDTTION TO 13 EXIST. SCHOOLS                        2100    10135    423   2E2        705  2022   lEOl    4703   410          332       220  jOOC    7302      3586    4-6    508-91-                                                                                                               69
4.0.0    WATERSUPOLT SECONDARY SCHOOLS
4.0.!1    DRtILLING 60 ROLLS                                     1       -    1303  1003    s'0oo               -         -      -       -        -      316   1326      1042-                                                                                                     2021   2329   6330   2101
5,0,0    MAITENANCE00  PROGRAM - SCHOOLS
3.0.1    EQUI1PMEN0 8AINTENANRCT                                 1      97 9       7      3       1D   120       RD      200     32      23        45   436   1122       135R              -        -      -                       110     477      306     -        --               713    1706   2021    1170
3.0.1    BUILDING OAINTENANCS,                                   1      120       2       1        3    25       17       42     17      12       29  1010   2610        3030     -9                               -         -      O      393      091     -        --              1161   3042   4203    2030
SUB-TOTAL OP 5.0.0                                     2    1103        9      6       15   145       97      242      49      33       04  1543     3741      3106    -        -        -      -        -        -     217     870      1097     -        --             1873    4740    6624   3200
6.0.0    AWSOOA PEDAGOGITCAL CISTEES-APC
6.0,1    40 ARC CENTOERS                                         1    9600    236    150        394  1570    1051       2627     53      38       91      70    109       276    -        -         -     783     196       979     43     174      217   308        87      435   3017    1902   3019   2423
7.0.0    SOAT. CURRIGOLUM 00V. TOOER
7.0.1    CURRICULUM SOV. CENTEE PHSER  D                         1    1304       46    37         93   373    249        622     33      24       57    204    523        727--                    -      -        -        -      -       -         -      -       --               666    833   1499       720
D.O.S    CURRICULUM D0V0LOPSINT                                  I S     -                                      -        -      -        -        -      23      39       RD-2            -             2038     610     3072    -         -        -       -       -        -      2401    073   3136    1520
SOS-TOTAL OP 7.0.0                                     2    1365       56    37        93   373    249         622     33      24       47    220      587      009    -        -         - 2458        614     3072    -         -        -      -        -        -     3166    1387   4653    22608
8.0,0    COMOION. SKILL T14AI80. CENTERS
8.0.1    40 C.S.T.C.                                          1200    6060        DH    15        46   449    299        748     33       30       91    103    264       367      -       -        - 1786        447      2233    -        -         -      -       -         -     2418    1067   3485    1680
9.0.      VETERISARY MEDSICINE
9.0.1    SCHOOL OP PET. MEDICINE                               103    2208        87    38       145   397    398        995    46       34        80    165    476       391    68        68      136--                    -      -        -        -      -        --              964     983   1947       941
10.0.0   NORPOWEOR STUDT
10.0.1   MIANAOITEAL/SKCILL LEVEL SURVEY                        --               --                                                                                                                                               101    603        754     -       -         -      151     60R3    754      064
11.0.9   ADMINISTEATION
11.0.1   PEOJECT ADMNIOSTRATION                                  I- -303                                                                                        991     1376    -         -        -      -        -        -      54    217        271  1083      396      1070    2023   1603   3626    1752
BASELINE COST IR  IRIOI                                                        4109  2740       6049 21470  14314   33004  2572    1862    0434  7012   19418   20970              68      68      136  5027    1207    6280    466    1863    2329   1931          483      2410   03190   422035  80200
DR  US $                                                       1003  1323    33209 10372   6915    17267  1242          900     2142  3 640    9301    13029       33      33       66  2429       607     3036   223      900      1120    933     203      1166  50867  20792  41139
CON9TINGENCIES
UNFORESEEN   IS  11100                                                         203    137       342  1074      716     1709    129       93      222    370    9071     1348       3       3         7   251       63      304     23       90      116     97       24      121   2160   2100   0260
IN  US 5                                                          99     66      165   519      346      064     62       45      107    182     o69       631      2       2         3   121       30      152     11      45        56     47       12       58    1043   0015   2058
PRCE   I   33109                                                       1200    418    0726  6312   2705    9018   756           352     1100  2 220    3674      3090     27      21        48  2006      383    2309    186    567         753   568        91      659  13D83   8307  213900
IN11   0   0S $                                                         384   250       034  3009    0307    0336    363        170      335  1073    1773       2006     13       10       23   969      185    01354      90    274       364    274       40      318   6417   0013  10430
OROD TOTAL   15  0300                                                          3523  3394    8917 28856  17735   46591  3456   2377              5764 io5149  24039   34209        90      92       191  7284    1702    ROOF    675   2324         3199   2596      598     3194  58638  52417 111030
IN1  us $                                                      2600   1600      4300 13940   8367   22008  1670   1113           2784  4003  11023    16526        48      44       92  3319       822    4341    326   1219        1543   0204     289      1543  20328  203211  33648
---  -  -  -  - - --  - - -  - - -  - - - - -  - -  - --  - - -  - - -  -- ----     -  - -----     -  - - - - - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - - -  -- - -  -  -  - - --  - -  ----     - - ----     - -  -- -  - - -  - - - - -  -  - - -   - --   -  - - -  - - - - - -  - -  - - - -  - ----- --         - -  - - -  -






ANNEX 1
TABLE 5
ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
% of
Total
Birr (Millions)           US$ (Millions)         Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
1. Civil Works
a)  Site development       4.11      2.74    6.85      1.99    1.32    3.31   8.0
b)  Buildings             21.47    14.31   35.78    10.37    6.92   17.29  42.0
Sub-total (1)       25.58    17.05   42.63    12.36    8.24   20.60   50.0
2.  Furniture                   2.57     1.86    4.43       1.24    0.90    2.14    5.2
3.  Equipment and Vehicles    7.55    19.42   26.97         3.65    9.38   13.03   31.7
4.  Curriculum/Staff            5.03     1.26    6.29       2.43    0.61    3.04    7.4
Development
5.  Technical Assistance        0.47     1.86    2.33       0.23    0.90    1.13    2.8
and Fellowships
6.  Professional Services       0.07     0.07    0.14       0.03    0.03    0.06    0.1
7.  Project Administration    1.93       0.48    2.41       0.93    0.12    1.16    2.8
Sub-total (2-7)    17.62    24.95   42.57        8.51   12.05   20.56   50.0
Total Base Cost    43.20    42.00   85.20    20.87   20.29   41.16  100.0
(1-7)(March 1981)
8. Contingencies
a)  Physical (5%)          2.16      2.10    4.26       1.04    1.02    2.06
b)  Price (24%)           13.28      8.31   21.59      6.42    4.01   10.43
Sub-total (8)       15.44    10.41   25.85       7.46    5.03   12.49
TOTAL PROJECT (1-8)       58.64    52.41  111.05    28.33   25.32   53.65
of which taxes             16.70      -      16.70     8.07      -       8.07



ETHIOPTA - FIPIE EDWCATIorW PFJ=X                                                                   ANEX 
TANLE7
flDeNTATION SCSXDIN      /
. ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              4
Xesrs      ________ I____                                      2                                _                                         4
Inpleoest.tio- Schedule                 -rte-s        1       2        3         4        5         6        7        8         9        10        11       12        13       14      15       16
Civil Workse                        US$ millions
1. Pori=ry s-hools
110 -sools                           1.67      #       X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X XX 
150 shool.                           2.28                             #    ##  #    X     X     X    X  XX    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X
90 -chools                          1.36                                                             #          ##     X  xX    X    X    X x X    X x X    X x X    X XX
Sub-Total            5.31
2. io-r seo.n.ary Schoola
30 schools                           2.87                            X  XX    X X X    X X X    X X X    X XX 
40 shools                            3.82                                                   ##   # X    XXX    X X X    X X X    X X X    X XX
20 schools                           1.91                                                                                              #X X    XXX    X X      X X X    X X X    X XX
Sub-Totlt             8.60
3. Higher Secondary Schools
5 s0hools                            0.87        66         ##X  xx x    xxx  x  x x  x  xx    x xx
5 schools                            0.87                                 ###    ###    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X
5 schools                            0.87                                                                       #     #     X            X     X    X  XX    X X X    X X X    X X X
Sob-Tot.l            2.61
4. Water Supply (Seco-dosy Sohools           ,
15 -0h-l1                            0.30                       #   XX    X   X    X X X    X XX    X
18 sobools                           0.36                                           #        X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X
27 school                           0.55                                                                       #        X X X    X X X    X X I    X X X    X X X    X X X
Sub-T0t11            1.21
5.  M.3Otes- o0 gPro-,m                  0.13      #     #                   X  X  X    X XX    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X
6. A-rJ. Psdagogical Centers
12e   ts.-                          0.44         x6 #X                x x    x xx xxx    xxx
18 enter-                             .66                                           #        x x       x        x x x    x x x    x x x    x x x
10 centers                           0.36                                                                         ##    ##X    X X X    X XX    X X X    X X X    X XX
Sub-Tota1            1.46
7. N.tioal Cusiculu- D-ev. Center        0.35       #                       #XX    X X X    X X X    X X X    X X X    XXX     V       V V V
8.  Co.nMity Skill Tr-lnirg Centers
le2  nte-e                          0.11      666   ##X         xxx    xxx    xxx    xx
18 enee-s                            0.17                                               x ##X   xx x    xx x    xx x    xx
10 ...te-s                           0.10                                                                    #  #    #               XX    X XX    X X X    X X X    X X X
Sub_-Ttsl            0.38
9.  Schcol of Veteris.y Mdi.ine          0.55       .::   #.                       .      *   *    .  x x    x x x    x x x    x x x    x x x    x xx    x x x    x x x    v vv   v v v
Total              $20.60                 _                                                                                                                      rh1 
Mech 1981
1  f     date hf effective s.s.
1 -rocrse.t of furitnre end equipuent  -uld -oicid.e sith oonstrsotbon sohedul.
Se.1othos  sod appeistent of snhitests.            '       X =   aderir,x/eaed/ hliaatSonon5tFsotion ph"e.
- Sel.tio.  Md W." Of  ito..                                  V   05to   ste- period.                                                                                                                 0
*     . Desier and won.stsueti.o doownwt phaJe.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT                TABLE 7
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter 1/       Disbursements            Disbursements               Balance
1                                                                   35.00
2                                                                   35.00
3                  0.50                     0.50                    34.50
4                  0.75                     1.25                    33.75
5                  3.10                     4.35                    30.65
6                  3.40                     7.75                    27.25
7                  3.60                    11.35                    23.65
8                  3.80                    15.15                     19.85
9                  4.10                    19.25                     15.75
10                  4.25                    23.50                    11.50
11                  3.80                    27.30                      7.70
12                  2.50                    29.80                      5.20
13                  2.20                    32.00                      3.00
14                  1.85                    33.85                      1.15
15                  0.75                    34.60                      0.40
16                  0.40                    35.00
1/ From date of credit effectiveness.



ETHIOPIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID, 1979-80
(Rounded)
UNIVERSITY   PARTICIPATION
GRADES          RATE X                                                                                     142751
17
16
15
14
13
HIGHER SECONDARY                                                       MALES                                 65,300                                 FEMALES
12           t  s ,%                                                                             17,280E    9,110
5.1%                                                                                  &"I
11           +                                                                                  25,870 q. 13,040
LOWER SECONDARY                                                                                             306,000
10                                                                                           332,150         17,380
9                                                                  ~~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~44,150  ...25,920
I11.0%
8              11.0%                                                                       52.170          6    0,500
7                                                                                       67,505                  35,860
PRIMARY                                                                                           1.811,250
6                                                                                    85,040         .             47,530
5                                                                                   95,080                        48,230
4                                                                              120,680 L                            58,240
38.0%                                                                                       
3                                                                         151,800                        .f       i  72.020
2                                                             231,220 P|                                  _,          110,140
1           ,     507,980F                                                                                                                  .... .    283,300
600,000           480,00Q            360,000           240,000            120,00                0              120,00             240,000           360,000            480,000            600,000
X Enrollments as % of relevant age group.
IJGrade and Male/Female Breakdown not Available                                                                                                   World Bank -19952
1F



ETHIOPIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNNIENT EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1979-80
PRIMARY                                      SECONDARY                                            HIGHER
LOWER CYCLE                    HIGHER                         UNIVERSITIES
CYCLE
GRADE        2fl 3       4 
CADEMIC       MEDICIN E
STR EAM
AGRICULTURE     ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING
PRE-SERV''{I~      ~          
PRIMAR'           PRODUCTIVE       ARTS, SCIENCE, LAVV, AGRICULTURE,
TEACH'            TECHNOLOGY       BUSINESS, PUBLIC HEALTH, SOCIAL WORK,
TRAIN                              THEOLOGY 
COURS   
HOME           INSTITUTFS & POST SECONDARY
ECONOMICS      TEACHER TRAINING
COMMERCE        COMMERCIAL SCHOOLS
BUSINESS
PEDAGOG ICAL
SCIENCES
JOBS
O EXAMINATION/SELECTIVE TEST
World Bank-16716



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
The Project Management Office
1.        The PMO of the Ministry of Education would be responsible for
liaison with the Association and all appropriate authorities of the Borrower
on matters relating to the carrying out of the Project and would have all
responsibilities and powers necessary for carrying out the Project, including,
inter alia:
(a) coordination of the carrying out of the Project with
ministries and government services other than MOE;
(b) in liaison with EBCA,
(i)  approval of the civil works drawings for the
educational facilities included in the Project;
(ii) supervision of all construction included in the
Project;
(iii) selection, briefing, coordination and supervision
of architects and contractors involved in carry-
ing out Parts E and I of the Project;
(iv) procurement of civil works, including prepara-
tion of bidding documents, analysis of bids and
making of recommendations regarding the award of
contracts;
(v)  regular inspection of all construction work;
(c) in liaison with EMPDA,
(i)  preparation of detailed lists of furniture,
equipment and vehicles required for the Project;
(ii)  procurement of such furniture, equipment and
vehicles, including preparation of bidding
documents, analysis of bids and recommendations
for the award of contracts;
(d) keeping of records, including financial records, rela-
tive to the carrying out of the Project and preparation
of regular reports to the Association;



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(e) coordination of selection, briefing and supervision
of the specialists included in the Project;
(f) preparation of applications for withdrawal from the
Credit Account.
2.        The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Manager,
the Project Coordinator, the Project Engineer and the Project Accountant would
be as follows:
(a) Project Manager: overall guidance for and supervision
of the carrying out of the Project, including all such
arrangements with other ministries and government ser-
vices as may be necessary for carrying out the Project;
(b) Project Coordinator: management of PMO's activities
under the supervision of the Project Manager;
(c) Project Engineer: guidance and overall supervision
of the civil works included in the Project and the
engineering staff to be employed, under the Project;
and
(d) Project Accountant: keeping records, including finan-
cial records and accounts for the Project, coordinat-
ing accounting and bookkeeping in respect of the
Project with EBCA and EMPDA, preparation of applica-
tions for withdrawal from the Credit Account and pre-
paration of all financial reports to be furnished to
the Association.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
Criteria for Selection of Locations for
Primary Schools, Provision of Service Modules for New Secondary Schools,
Awraja Pedagogical Centers and the Community Skill Training Centers
1.        Primary Schools
(a)  The highest priority is given to:  (i) rural areas and
(ii) weredas with only one school. Peasant Associations
will determine actual sites for schools.
(b) Extension to existing schools during the coming three years
will be the entire financial responsibility of the com-
munities with technical assistance from HOE, with the
exception of schools in areas where materials and expertise
are not available.
(c) New locations will be planned so that they do not du-
plicate existing facilities. Decisions on new school
locations will be made at the local level and will take
into account education officers' recommendations.
(d) Priority for new construction will (after catering for
the provision in (a) above) be accorded to those awrajas
and weredas where participation rates are below the na-
tional average.
2.        Secondary Schools
(a) Priority for new secondary schools will be given to
awrajas which presently do not have secondary schools.
Service modules will be added to schools in areas
which are without or are deficient in facilities for
the teaching of practical subjects. In all cases
priority will be given to rural areas.
(b) The provision of a service module to an existing
school must be approved by MOE which must determine
that the area proposed has a sufficient number of poten-
tial local secondary students to warrant the expansion,
and that the site selection is suitable for an increased
number of students.



41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
(c) Where a primary school is to be up-graded by the addition
of a service module and converted into a local secondary
school, MOE must determine that alternative facilities at
the primary level are either available or will be provided
before construction commences.
3.        Awraja (District) Pedagogical Centers (APCs)
(a)  The plan is to establish an APC in each awraja (106).
Twenty-nine APCs are in operation and 40 would be provided
in the proposed program. The remaining 37 would be
provided through other sources.
(b) Each of the 40 APCs will be sited in the administrative
capital of an Awraja, so as to provide ready access to
all schools in such Awraja.
(c) Where possible, the centers will be located adjacent to or
combined with, the District Education Offices.
(d) The sites will be selected on the advice of the Regional
Development Committee, the District Education Officer and
MOE.
(e) Sites will be selected where essential services are available.
4.        Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs)
The CSTCs will be sited in weredas where:
(a) no CSTC is presently established;
(b) there is ongoing development activity. The center will
be linked where possible to the development and expansion
of the Minimum Package Program, rural public works program
and basic health services;
(c) a nucleus of local organization and development oriented
leadership exists, including the presence of Government
development staff.
(d) training needs can be identified and where learning
opportunities can be expanded; and
(e) the community wants and is willing to support the program.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Baseline surveys and interviews in each of the potential sites
selected must be carried out prior to construction to determine that the
sites meet these criteria.
Within the weredas selected, the Community Skill Training Centers
will be established near a primary school (and, if possible, a health center)
at some focal point such as a market center.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Reports Related to the Sector
Al.   Higher Education in Ethiopia, 1978                       September 1978
A2.   Notes on the Education System in Ethiopia                February 1981
A3.   Findings of the Education Study Mission on
Fiscal Implications of the 10 Year Plan                 October 1976
B.   Reports Related to the Project
Bl.   Request for Credit for Education and Training
(Volumes 1 and 2)                                       October 1976
B2.   New Strategy for Equipping Primary and Higher
Schools in Ethiopia                                              1977
B3.   Project for reorganization of the maintenance
system for buildings and equipment within the
Ministry of Education                                    October 1978
B4.   Curriculum Development Project                           October 1978
B5.   General Information on CSTC Program                      October 1978
B6.   Feasibility Study of School of Veterinary
Medicine (FAO)                                           April 1975
B7.   Project proposal for the establishment of
veterinary medicine                                      January 1979
B8.   Staff Development Program - Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine                                      February 1981
B9.   Department of Adult Education
(General Information)                                   1970 EC
B10.  Elementary and secondary schools, classrooms,
classes, teachers and enrollment by grade and
sex                                                      1969 EC
Trends in Education                                      1966-1970 EC
Secondary School Age Population (13-18)                  1967-1972 EC



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
C.   Working Papers and Drawings
Cl. Working Papers (Schedules of Accommodation, Areas and Costing)
f



IBRD  114'R
AFRICA                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~flTOH eDUCATtPN PROJECT
L- RI TREA ~~            ~         -~MR~
-'  -t  /,'  A  A~~~~~~~~~~~~prwpt 3
GN                           I, I
/ A
)-  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A /~~~~~~~ /                         
ti G A N D A~IA 



