q354{:
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                LE  Copy
Report No. P-2234b-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
April 24, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution ad may be ised by recipients only iD the performance of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00               =            Birr 2.07
Birr                  =           US$0.483
Birr 1 million        =           US$483,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF       African Development Fund
APC       Awraja Pedagogical Center
CFF       Compensatory Financing Facility
CSTC      Community Skill Training Center
EBCA      Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
EEC       European Economic Community
EMPDA     Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
FAO       Food and Agricultural Organization
NCDC      National Curriculum Development Center
PMO       Project Management Office
UNICEF    United Nations International Childrens Emergency Fund
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =            3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)          =            0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =            10,000 square meters (sq. m)
1 hectare (ha)            =            2.47 (ac)
1 metric ton (m/ton)      =            2,204 pounds (lbs.)
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/   The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr has
been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Ethiopia
Amount:                SDR 28.2 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The proposed project will support the Borrower's
Education Plan that aims to promote a qualitative
improvement in Ethiopia's education system, provide a
wider distribution of educational opportunities, and
achieve universal primary education by about 1989. The
project will comprise a three year phase (1981 to 1984)
of the Plan's investment program. It will build upon
the educational development provided under earlier
IDA-assisted education projects and will: (i) expand
primary, secondary (lower and higher) and non-formal
education; (ii) strengthen maintenance programs for
educational facilities; (iii) expand educational support
services at the district level; (iv) help reorient
curricula towards practical work and studies; (v) help
establish a school of veterinary medicine; and (vi) help
evaluate educational methodology and the supply and
demand for manpower. The project will raise enrollment
ratios significantly at all levels, particularly in
rural areas, and help to adjust the imbalance in the
geographical distribution of schools. Two risks could
affect the project's progress. First, the project
incorporates elements that are innovative to Ethiopia.
The implementation process, however, has been the
subject of considerable review, and safeguards in the
form of increased school supervision, staff training,
and monitoring and evaluation, have been included in the
project. Secondly, the Plan entails sizeable recurrent
costs that could become a budgetary burden if the economy
does not expand as expected; however, to anticipate and
minimize any difficulties, the growth of recurrent
expenditures will be reviewed frequently.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Item                                               Local    Foreign   Total
Primary, Lower Secondary and
Higher Secondary Schools                         14.25    14.30       28.55
Non-formal Education (Community Skill
Training Centers)                                 0.30      0.30       0.60
Maintenance of Buildings and Equipment              0.81      1.87       2.68
Educational Support Services (Awraja
Pedagogical Centers)                              0.94      0.70       1.64
Curriculum and Staff Development                    2.75      1.04       3.79
Veterinary Medicine                                 0.47      0.47       0.94
Technical Assistance                                0.23      0.90       1.13
Project Administration                              1.12      0.71       1.83
Contingencies:
Physical                                      1.04      1.02      2.06
Price                                         6.42     4.01      10.43
Total Project Cost                             28.33    25.32      53.65
Total Project Cost (net of
taxes and duties)                            20.26    25.32       45.58
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Ethiopia                                           18.65        -        18.65 1/
IDA                                                 9.68      25.32      35.00
28.33     25.32      53.65
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA FY      1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                                     1.3   13.9   14.6    5.2
Cumulative:                                1.3   15.2   29.8   35.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2337-ET, dated April 20, 1981.
1/   Including taxes and duties of US$8.07 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of SDR 28.2 million (US$35.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a fifth education
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank economic mission is currently visiting Ethiopia.  The most
recent economic mission prior to this one visited Ethiopia in November
1978, and its report (No. 2609a-ET, Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia) was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 22, 1980. A summary of social
and economic data is included in Annex I.
Government Structure aDd Objectives
3.        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a Military
Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council, chaired by the
Head of State, and oD which government ministers, peasant associations, urban
dwellers and trade unions are represented, is responsible for the preparation,
approval, and oversight of economic plans and policies. In parallel with this
body, a Council of Ministers is responsible for implementation. The Govern-
ments general objectives emphasize raising the living standard of all
Ethiopians, especially the poor, through central planning and control of the
major industries, the fiDancial system and foreign trade, and through the
mobilization of the mass of the people to increase production. Emphasis is
being given to the provision of free and more widespread education, improved
health services and wider employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the majority
of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural land was
made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user rights of
up to ten hectares allocated to former tenaDts and to others personally
willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were either haDded
over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or retained as
state farms. However, state farms account for less than two percent of
cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations with seven
million members had been formed throughout the secure rural areas. These
associations decide on limited security and judicial matters and are re-
sponsible for land redistribution and the establishment and management of
marketing and producers cooperatives. Representative associations have been



- 2 -
established at wereda, awraja and regional levels. 1/ Few producers coopera-
tives have been established so far since the Government has been proceeding
cautiously, and wishes compliance to be voluntary.
5.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and owner-
ship of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses nationalized.
Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established to parallel the
peasant associations and have been delegated similar powers. Most large
enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned by Ethiopians, were
nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to centralized policy guidance
and investment approval. Under legislation introduced in 1979, a large
part of public enterprise profits are also reallocated centrally. The
banks and financial institutions now function as subsidiaries of the National
Bank of Ethiopia. The private sector retains a role in the Ethiopian economy,
notably in construction, peasant agriculture, trade and small-scale manufac-
turing. Cooperative enterprises are being encouraged in all sectors where
private ownership is dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms took place against a background of desperate poverty
and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of about
US$130 in 1979, is one of the least developed countries in the world. The
population, estimated at about 31.0 million in 1979, and growing at about
2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 85 percent). The literacy
rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years primarily as a result of a literacy
drive (para. 19), but some 85 percent of the adult population remain illite-
rate. There is one physician for about every 80,000 people and only about 38
percent of the children of primary school age are enrolled. About two percent
of the rural population and 32 percent of the urban population have reasonable
access to a safe water supply. In many parts of the country, soils have
become seriously depleted as population pressure has forced people to cultivate
ecologically unsuitable land. As a result, many such areas have faced periodic
drought and food shortages, the severity of which has been increasing over
time. The lack of transport is such that only one quarter of the population
is within one day's round trip on foot from an all-weather road. This low
level of development itself leads to low savings, investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the past.
However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large scale. There
are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's
main potential lies in agriculture, for which the natural conditions in
many areas are favorable. At present, around 50 percent of GDP originates
in agriculture, and most industry is also agriculture-based. Compared with
other countries at similar stages of development, Ethiopia has a relatively
skilled and trained work force, but manpower shortages still remain a con-
straint on development.
1/   Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



-3-
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.        From fiscal year 1973/74 to 1977/78, GDP grew at less than 0.5
percent per annum in real terms. This low growth rate reflected security
problems, the uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied the
economic reforms, and the ensuing difficulties in internal marketing and
distribution. The emergency situations in Eritrea and the Ogaden during
1977/78 caused the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport and
communications and the diversion of resources from economic development.
Although agricultural production was maintained, the structure of production
shifted away from export crops towards food grains, and marketed production
probably declined. In the industrial sector, the closure of factories in the
Eritrea region, which formerly accounted for about one-third of industrial
production, caused a fall in output. Production was also constrained by
shortages of agricultural raw materials, spare parts shortages, machinery
breakdowns, high managerial turnover, labor disputes and negligible new
investment. Construction activity declined. Inflation was rampant, with
consumer prices rising at an average rate of 20 percent per annum through the
three years ending mid-1978.
9.        These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained, partly because
of the price boom in 1976/77. However, the value of other exports declined,
with the result that coffee accounted for three-quarters of total export
earnings in 1977/78. Imports on the other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent
per annum in value terms since 1973/74. However, much of this increase was
attributable to drought relief and other unspecified items, probably including
military imports. The resulting deterioration in the resource balance was
financed up to and including 1976/77 by external assistance, either in the
form of transfers or of net inflows of public capital. In 1977/78, the
capital inflow was reduced, and the deficit was financed largely by heavy
recourse to foreign exchange reserves, which were drawn down from the equi-
valent of one year's supply of imports to about five months.
10.       The role of the central Government and the public sector increased
significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 12 percent
of GDP in the early seventies, reached 22 percent of GDP in 1977/78. At
the same time, the Government was forced to increase its reliance on domestic
borrowing. The growth in current expenditure was largely attributable to
military needs, which reached 66 percent of total recurrent outlays in 1977/78.
Other current spending was kept under strict control. Central Government
capital spending increased steadily (except in 1977/78, the year of the
emergency (para. 8)), with road construction and agriculture as the main areas
of emphasis. In addition, a large part of the increase in bank credit to the
non-central Government sector was accounted for by public enterprises (espe-
cially the state farms).
11.       Modern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of



- 4 -
peasant farmers increased. Correspondingly, urban real wages probably fell.
While the salaries of approximately the top ten percent of public sector
employees were frozen, the Government permitted the wages of lower paid
workers to rise.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had emerged
or intensified. It was against this background that, in September 1978, the
Government introduced the first "economic campaign" with the objectives of:
(i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying efforts in the organ-
izations dealing with the peasant sector, and by doubling state farm area;
(ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by strengthening afforestation,
rehabilitation and resettlement programs; (iii) eliminating current shortages
of consumer items and certain construction materials; (iv) improving the
efficiency of government agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign
exchange availability by promoting exports. Physical production targets
for each of the key sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of
resources, and partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organiza-
tions concerned.
13.       The economic campaigns clearly recognized the priority of the
productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. The first campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 17). This was followed by a second campaign in
fiscal year 1979/80 and a third is currently underway. The Government is now
considering the ways and means to integrate such campaigns or action programs
into a more comprehensive multi-year planning process.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       Since fiscal year 1977/78, the economy has experienced a significant
revival. During 1978/79 and 1979/80, real GDP is provisionally estimated to
have grown by 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent, respectively. Most of the growth
during these two years was in manufacturing (41 percent), distribution services
(18 percent), and agriculture (7.5 percent). Coffee exports recovered signifi-
cantly, from 57,800 tons in 1977/78 to 86,300 tons in 1978/79, and remained at
approximately that level in 1979/80. This led to more than a five percent
increase in earnings from coffee in 1978/79 and, in 1979/80, to a further
increase of over 26 percent. Non-coffee export earnings, principally from
hides and skins, also saw significant increases of about 28 percent and 57
percent in each year, respectively. In total, the value of merchandise
exports rose about eight percent and 21 percent, while the value of imports
increased by about five percent and 18 percent. Most of the increases in
imports were in fuel, semi-finished goods and industrial goods. A substantial
rise occurred in external loan disbursements and in project-related capital
transfers, probably due in large part to an improved rate of project implemen-
tation. Hence, foreign reserves fell at a much slower pace in fiscal years
1978/79 (US$46 million) and 1979/80 (US$39 million) than in 1977/78 (US$126
million). Total net reserves, at about US$180 million in June 1980, were
sufficient to finance about three months imports at the 1980 rate.



- 5 -
15.       The fiscal position also improved during the last two fiscal years.
New revenue measures (increased income taxes, agricultural taxes, import
duties, capital charges on public enterprise profits and excise taxes on some
mass consumer goods), were introduced in 1978/79. Coupled with the higher
level of economic activity, these measures generated a 29 percent growth in
revenue over the two fiscal years 1978/79 and 1979/80, with direct taxes, and
taxes on domestic sales as the main contributors. Central Government revenues
now account for about 18 percent of GDP, compared with 10 to 11 percent in the
early 1970s.  On the expenditure side, the Government was able to reduce its
recurrent expenditures, and keep its general expenditures (which include
defense) to within 17 percent of the 1977/78 level (despite inflation at
significantly higher levels) and permit a resumption of the growth in capital
spending which had been curtailed by the emergency situation in 1978. With
the increase in foreign loan disbursements (para. 14), the Government was able
to restrain recourse to the domestic banking system to about one percent of
GDP in 1978/79 and three percent in 1979/80 (compared to about five percent in
1977/78).
16.       Assessments of the 1979/80 grain harvest indicate an improvement
over previous years. However, drought struck once again in Ethiopia in 1980,
affecting both the northern highlands of Eritrea, Tigrai and Wollo, and also
the southern provinces of Bale, Sidamo and Gamo Goffa. The Relief and Rehabil-
itation Commission estimated that some five million people were affected. A
multi-donor mission in May/June 1980, led by the United Nations Disaster
Relief Organization, estimated drought-related requirements that included over
280,000 tons of food. In addition, a United Nations interagency mission under
the auspices of the Economic and Social Council visited Ethiopia in July 1980
and estimated substantial additional food and other requirements to meet the
needs of displaced persons, estimated to number about 2.4 million.
17.       The economic revival can be attributed to various factors.  First,
the return of comparative peace and security in late 1978 permitted the reallo-
cation of resources, particularly transport, to normal economic activity.
Secondly, several industries in Eritrea were reopened and resupplied. Thirdly,
there have been two good harvest years in the main grain-producing areas.
Finally, the Government's economic campaigns have had a discernible effect in
at least two directions; in giving clear indications of priorities and allo-
cating resources accordingly, and in greatly improving discipline and manage-
ment in many of the public sector enterprises. Preliminary indications are
that, in the publicly-owned industrial sector, production grew by about 35
percent (45 percent was planned) during the first economic campaign and 14
percent during the second, while in the agricultural sector, 94 percent (about
145,000 hectares) of the planned state farm area was ploughed during the first
two campaigns.
18.       It will not be easy to sustain this expansion.  First, international
economic conditions are unfavorable and the terms of trade have been deter-
iorating in recent months, with lower prices for coffee--the principal
export--and higher petroleum prices. Secondly, external assistance commit-
ments have probably not risen sufficiently rapidly in recent years to



- 6 -
sustain higher import levels. These factors indicate that foreign exchange
will become increasingly constrained. The revival in domestic production
will, furthermore, become increasingly subject to capacity constraints, due to
the low level of investment during the past few years. The rapid production
increases of the past two years are principally attributable to the improved
utilization cf existing capacity. The Government, however, has planned for
even larger production increases for the fiscal year 1980/81, especially in
the construction sector, under its third economic campaign. The targets which
have been set for the various sectors imply a GDP growth rate of 6.2 percent
in real terms.
Government Programs
19.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs and
projects, some of which had been under preparation before the revolution and
subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor, especially in rural areas.
In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop peasant agriculture, rehabili-
tate drought-affected areas, and to develop export and industrial crops. In
the manufacturing sector, increased emphasis has been given to small-scale,
cottage and handicraft industries, and to the production of mass consumer
goods. New projects in these productive sectors have been slow in starting,
however, partly because of uncertainties over government policies and pro-
grams. Road construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards
rural roads. A frame plan for education covering the period 1976 to 1989
seeks to emphasize primary and non-formal education with increased cultural,
economic and social relevance. Enrollments at all levels have been increas-
ing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural areas which were
relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health and water supply
programs are being expanded, and the Government has been preparing programs to
improve urban housing and services, especially for low-income groups. In
mid-1979, the Government launched a nationwide literary campaign (para. 33).
Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its relief operations.
20.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations and
kebeles over a short period (paras. 4 and 5) is a less tangible achievement,
but one which may be of great long-run significance. These organizations
provide a basis upon which the Government can build an accelerated develop-
ment effort, with emphasis on the poorest social groups. It is true that
the peasant associations and kebeles will need additional support to enable
them to carry out some of their tasks, such as land redistribution, the
establishment of cooperative farms and trading activity. Nevertheless,
some of their potential is already being realized; they are playing a signi-
ficant role in the construction of primary schools, training centers, clinics,
and rural roads, in reafforestation and conservation activity, and in the
organization of literacy campaigns and other self-help projects.
External Assistance
21.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group was for some
years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent years, the



- 7 -
European Economic Community (EEC), the African Development Bank, the Soviet
Union, the German Democratic Republic and Czechoslovakia have expanded their
support, and development assistance is continuing from Sweden, the Federal
Republic of Germany and Italy. U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft
purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans and also provided assistance
under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). By January 1981, Ethiopia's
net borrowings under the Trust Fund had reached about US$32.7 million equiva-
lent and drawings under the CFF stood at about US$45 million. In February
1981, an IMF mission reviewed a government request for a standby arrangement
and for further drawings under the CFF. Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan have
concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. Excluding military
debt service, for which no information is available, the ratio of Ethiopia's
debt service to export earnings has remained low (about 5.6 percent in 1979/80)
because of the relatively low level of external loan commitments in recent
years, and the tendency of some donors to shift to support on grant terms.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed was about US$670 million at June 30,
1980.
22.       Local cost financing in Ethiopia should be at a high level.  The
country's poverty and its weak balance of payments position suggest the need
for very substantial resource transfers. The slow-down in project preparation
activity over recent years (para. 19) has meant that resources cannot be
transferred sufficiently rapidly through conventional financing of foreign
exchange costs only. Within the limits imposed by its perceived security
needs over the past few years, the Government has directed available resources
towards economic and social development (paras.10 and 19); it has restrained
salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials and increased what was formerly
a low tax burden to contribute to meeting security and developmental needs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
23.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totals about US$506 mil-
lion (less cancellations), consisting of 25 IDA credits totalling US$382
million, 12 Bank loans totalling US$109 million, and five IFC commitments
totalling US$15.8 million. Nearly half the lending (US$228 million) was
committed between fiscal years 1974 and 1978. Subsequently, the compensation
issue necessitated a hiatus in further lending (para. 28). Since FY1973,
lending has been on IDA terms only. From 1973 to 1977, IBRD's and IDA's
combined share of gross disbursements of public medium- and long-term loans
increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3 percent. However, these data tend to
exaggerate somewhat the dependence on the Bank, since they exclude the growing
tendency of other donors to give capital assistance on grant terms. IBRD's
share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of June 1980 has been
provisionally estimated at about 9 percent, and IDA's at 35 percent. Their
shares of total debt service in 1979/80 have been provisionally estimated at
about 27 percent and 6 percent, respectively.
24.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power and
telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, wh--n its emphasis shifted
to agriculture and education. In the past seven years, seven credits totaling



US$147 million have been made for agricultural development. The most recent
credit (US$40 million) is supporting the agricultural minimum package program,
which represents the core of the Government's development plans for peasant
agriculture. In addition, the last three credits for roads have placed
emphasis on meeting agricultural needs. One credit of US$23 million, the
fourth in a series, was made for education. This program reflects the heavier
emphasis on agriculture and education in the Government's priorities.
25.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some diffi-
culties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the Lower
Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the Drought
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). The Lower Adiabo Project made no progress,
and therefore the credit was closed. The latter two, however, have made
reasonable progress. Projects sometimes suffer from management problems, but
those in the highways and education sectors particularly continue to have
strong management. Financial problems have also occurred, but have been
remedied in most cases. Disbursements, which increased from US$31 million in
FY76 to US$40 million in FY77, fell in FY78 to US$27 million, This occurred
partly because some fast disbursing projects like the first Minimum Package
Project were fully disbursed and also because of transport difficulties caused
by unrest in parts of the country. However, disbursements of over US$44
million in FY79 and US$33.5 million in FY80 indicate a return to normal.
26.       The changing environment in Ethiopia, especially the land reform,
has required basic conceptual changes in many projects and has been one of
the factors, together with management and staffing constraints, causing
implementation delays and postponement of closing dates. Such changes hindered
progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and the credit was closed.
However, the changes have sometimes had beneficial impacts on the projects in
question; for example, the scope of the Coffee Processing Project (290-ET) was
widened to include existing coffee washing stations taken over under the land
reform. General problems, such as rising labor costs and occasional shortages
of construction materials, have also detracted from efficient project implemen-
tation. However, our experience has been that the Government and the project
managements have often been successful in efforts to overcome these problems.
Ethiopia's overall record on project implementation is about average for the
Eastern Africa Region and has been improving in recent years. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. In addition to its lending program, the
Bank has been supporting the Government's development efforts by seconding, in
cooperation with the United Nations Development Program, a project identifica-
tion and preparation advisor to the Central Planning Supreme Council.
27.       We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth and
equity-oriented objectives. A development finance company and small-scale
industry project, and a second coffee processing project, are being appraised.
The industrial finance project will help to increase industrial production and
the growth of employment opportunities in small- and medium-scale industry.
The coffee project will help to improve the quality of Ethiopia's coffee
exports and increase the incomes of smallholder coffee growers. In addition,
a sugar project, an eighth highway project and an urban project are being
prepared.



-9-
Compensation
28.       In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either
partly or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be
in the public interest. When doing so, the Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners. To implement this policy, it
established a Compensation Commission in late 1975/early 1976 to receive
and review claims, and to negotiate and reach agreement with former owners
on the amount of compensation and the manner of payment.  Much time passed,
however, with little evident progress being made, even though the Bank had
repeatedly urged the Government to expedite the resolution of this compensa-
tion issue. Following the Board-s approval of Credit 789-ET (Grain Storage
and Marketing Project) in April 1978, the Bank informed the Government that,
before another lending proposal for Ethiopia could be presented to the
Executive Directcrs, a concrete beginning would need to be made to resolve
this issue.
29.       A beginning was made in late 1980.  The Compensation Commission
began negotiations with a Japanese claimant, an American claimant, and an
Italian claimant. On this basis, the Bank presented the Second Agricultural
Minimum Package Project (Credit 1088-ET) to the Executive Directors on
December 23, 1980. Since that time, the Commission has made further progress.
The Commission reached a settlement with the first American claimant, and has
also begun negotiations with a German claimant and a second American claimant.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
30.       In the late 1960's, Ethiopia-s education system was barely respond-
ing to the country's social and economic needs. Enrollment of the relevant
age group at the primary school level was only about 16 percent, and at the
secondary level only about 5 percent. Dropout and repetition rates were
high and a large proportion of the teachers were expatriates or unqualified.
Facilities were inadequate and curricula were not appropriately balanced to
meet the country s manpower requirements. In addition, technical schools
were performing below potential due to ineffective communications with indus-
try. To help counter these and other problems, the Government, supported
by the Bank Group, carried out an in-depth sector review during 1971/73 which
revealed the need for reforms and proposed major changes. Although there
was much opposition to some recommendations, the broad objectives stemming
from the review were maintained. By 1979/80, further progress had been made;
enrollment at the primary school level (grades 1 to 6) had increased to about
38 percent, at the lower secondary level (grades 7 to 10) to about 11 percent,
and at the higher secondary level (grades 11 and 12) to about 5 percent.
Enrollments of women at each of these levels represented 34, 36, and 34 per-
cent, respectively, of the total enrollments.



- 10 -
31.       The Government has continued to build upon the findings of the
sector review. To complement the recent land reforms and the revisions to
government structures, and to help improve the quality and relevance of its
educational programs, the Government has reorganized and restructured the
sector. The Ministry of Education has been much strengthened, particularly
its educational planning, supervision, non-formal education and curriculum
departments. The Ministry is now almost entirely staffed by Ethiopians.
Adequate procedures have been developed to locate schools equitably and to
ensure teachers and instructors are satisfactorily provided. The Ministry-s
National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), established and supported under
earlier IDA-assisted education projects (para. 38), has been fast developing
new curricula and educational materials in fifteen subject areas, particularly
in the sciences and home economics fields. Further support will be provided
to the NCDC under the proposed project to strengthen its capacity to produce
non-science curricula and teaching materials (para. 47). The Ministry's
Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA), which has
also been supported under earlier IDA-assisted projects, produces and distri-
butes the NCDC materials. A Project Office has been created in the Ministry
to coordinate all education activities between it and other concerned govern-
ment organizations, particularly the Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
(EBCA). In 1980, the EBCA succeeded the Rural Projects Agency which was estab-
lished in 1975 to construct and carry out major maintenance of schools. The
EBCA is a well-run, semi-autonomous body under the Ministry of Urban Develop-
ment and Housing. Lesser maintenance is carried out by the Ministry through
its Building Maintenance Unit and also the EMPDA, but since the Ministry's
performance in this area has been inadequate in the past, steps will be taken
under the proposed project to strengthen its capacity (para. 44). The Project
Office will also be strengthened (para. 54).
32.       The Government has been taking steps to strengthen its regional,
provincial and district administrations. Increased responsibility has been
given to these administrations for school construction and maintenance,
teacher recruitment and payment of primary school teacher salaries, selection
of students for secondary and higher levels of education, and some basic
planning and supervision tasks. In addition, Awraja (District) Pedagogical
Centers (APCs) have been created to provide in-service teacher training,
assist specialized courses, advise on curricula and teaching materials
development, and distribute textbooks and other learning materials. Twenty-
nine APCs have already been established and 56 others are operating in
temporary quarters.
33.       Non-formal education is largely provided through Community Skill
Training Centers (CSTCs) controlled by the Ministry of Education. The Centers
focus on training in such subjects as agriculture, equipment repair, cottage
industries and carpentry as well as basic literacy and health education.
About 280 Training Centers have been included in earlier IDA-assisted projects
(para. 38), and further assistance will be provided under the proposed
project (para. 46). In addition, the Ministry's Department of Adult Education
is being strengthened to increase its capacity to formulate programs, a



- 11 -
Correspondence Education Unit (financed partly by the EEC) is being established
in the Ministry to provide "second chance" secondary education, and educational
radio programs are being expanded. The Government's campaign to eradicate
illiteracy (para. 19) has also been making significant progress; it has
reportedly reached some 5.4 million people, of whom an estimated 73 percent
are women. Part-time instructors for the campaign have been drawn from the
teaching profession, the civil service, and other professions.
34.       The Government prepared an Education Plan for the ten-year period
1976 to 1986 (now extended to about 1989 for some elements) that aims to: (i)
achieve universal primary education by 1989; (ii) provide wider and more
equitable distribution of educational opportunities between urban and rural
areas and among age groups; (iii) reorient curricula more towards Ethiopia's
cultural and economic needs; and (iv) strengthen administration, teacher
training and educational support services. Through the use of double shifts
and the construction of new schools, the Plan anticipates enrollment increases
of 19 percent annually in primary schools and 10 percent annually in both
lower and higher secondary schools. By 1986, these increases would lead
to enrollments of 76 percent of the relevant age group in primary schools, 16
percent in lower secondary schools, and 8 percent in higher secondary schools
(para. 30). The Plan, together with the Government's literacy campaign, is
also expected to increase the literacy rate of the adult population from the
current rate of about 15 percent to about 20 percent by 1986.
35.       To meet the Plan's objectives, over 14,000 new primary schools will
need to be constructed, about 1,000 lower and 100 higher secondary schools
expanded or established, and about 100 Awraja Pedagogical Centers and 500
Community Skill Training Centers developed. To staff these schools, over
55,000 additional primary school teachers will need to be trained by 1986
(about 8,000 annually) through short courses at the Teacher Training Institutes
and the Pedagogical Centers. In addition, about 2,900 secondary teachers will
be required by 1986. A detailed program to train these teachers has been
prepared by the Government and reviewed by the Association. In view of its
importance to the success of the Plan (and the proposed project), the Govern-
ment will implement the program and prepare semi-annual progress reports that
will be reviewed in consultation with the Association (Sections 3.05(d) and
(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).
36.       Implementing the Plan will require significant increases in capital
and recurrent costs. Capital costs alone are estimated to total over US$180
million equivalent in constant 1976/77 prices. Recurrent expenditures would
total about seven times capital expenditures, which is in line with experience
in other African countries. In total, annual costs would rise from about
US$77 million in 1979/80 and to about US$180 million in 1985/86. Assuming a
modest growth in GDP over the next decade, education expenditures as a percen-
tage of total government expenditures could rise from about 9 percent in
1978/79 to about 19 percent in 1985/86, which would still be a reasonable
level. Some external assistance, however, has already been forthcoming; in
addition to that provided by the EEC and the United Nations International
Childrens Emergency Fund (UNICEF), Sweden is providing assistance for the
construction of a large number of small primary school- through self-help by
the peasant associations. Moreover, the Government expects the peasant
associations to contribute substantially to education expenditures; if this is
achieved, education expenditures in 1985/86 could fall to about 15 percent of
total government expenditures.



- 12 -
37.       Conceptually, the Plan is well-conceived and the Government is
giving it high priority. The balance of investment among the various levels
and types of education is in line with development priorities. The machinery
for interagency coordination is well-developed and adequate attention has been
paid to infrastructural aspects. Nevertheless, it is ambitious, and at the
limits of financial and physical feasibility. It will require a real growth
rate in education expenditures of about 13 percent annually (para. 36), which
would be difficult to maintain. The Plan's implementation period therefore will
probably need to be extended to at least 1994, in order to prevent it from
becoming an undue burden on the Government's budget. To help anticipate any
difficulties, the Borrower will prepare semi-annual reports on the develop-
ment of recurrent expenditures for the operation and maintenance of its
educational institutions, and review them in consultation with the Association
(Sections 3.05(d) and (e), draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       The Association has helped to finance four education projects
in Ethiopia that have greatly assisted the Government to expand enrollments
(para. 30). The first, assisted by a US$7.2 million credit (No. 84-ET) in
1966, helped to expand secondary education, technical education and teacher
training, and to diversify curricula. Although completed eighteen months late
in 1972, a Bank Group evaluation concluded that that most of its quantitative
objectives had been met. The curriculum objectives, however, were not fully
achieved by 1972. The second, financed by a US$9.5 million credit (No.
243-ET) in 1971, was completed in 1979. The project helped to expand
teacher training and agricultural education as well as to expand secondary
education to improve its geographical distribution and quality. The project
took about three and a half years longer than expected to complete, but this
was due partly to an enlargement of the project's scope to permit the use of
unanticipated savings and also to the profound social change that occurred
in Ethiopia during project implementation. The Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 3252) of December 29, 1980 reported that the project met, and in
some respects, exceeded its quantitative educational objectives. However, a
shortage of adequately trained teachers, a delay in establishing teacher
training operations, and delays in the distribution and installation of
instructional equipment, hampered the achievement of qualitative objectives in
the period expected. The third was financed by a US$10 million credit (No.
417-ET) made in 1973 to assist rural education, the teaching of science and
the production of textbooks and teaching materials. The project was completed
in December 1980, about two years late. A project completion mission has been
scheduled for May 1981. Project costs were in line with appraisal estimates
and educational objectives appear to have been met. During implementation,
however, the Government requested, and the Association agreed, to make certain
modifications to the project primarily to reflect the reorganization of the
sector. Community Skill Training Centers were substituted for a Church
Training Center, and an Appropriate Technology Center was added. The fourth,
financed by a US$23.0 million credit made in 1975 (No. 553-ET), is helping to
implement a program to expand basic and non-formal education, to train spe-
cialized rural development personnel, and to construct a social science center
at the University of Addis Ababa. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily



- 13 -
and is largely on schedule. Experience from these projects has demonstrated
the need to: (i) develop realistic implementation schedules and review
teacher supply carefully; (ii) provide flexibility in determining school
locations; (iii) establish adequate school maintenance systems; and (iv)
improve accounting procedures. These factors have been taken into account in
preparing the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Fifth Education Project; Staff
Appraisal Report," No. 2337-ET, dated April 20, 1981, is being distributed
separately.
40.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government, with
assistance from Bank Group staff. The project was first appraised in January
1977, but security and transport problems forced delays in project processing.
A follow-up appraisal mission visited Ethiopia in October 1978, but delays
again ensued because of the absence of progress on the compensation issue
(para. 28). The project was further updated in early 1980. Following recent
developments on the compensation issue, negotiations were held in Washington
from February 23 to 27, 1981. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Abdul-
menan Ahmed, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, and included Ato
Mitiku Jembere, Head, Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance,
and Ato Teka Feyira, Head, Social Services Department, Central Planning
Supreme Council.
Objectives and Description of the Project
41.       The proposed project is the fifth IDA-assisted education project
in Ethiopia and will support the Government's Education Plan. It has been
designed to: (i) improve the quality and relevance of Ethiopia's educa-
tion program; (ii) increase the percentage enrollment of the relevant age
group at all levels, particularly in rural areas; and (iii) help to adjust the
imbalance in the geographical distribution of schools. In addition, it will
provide much-needed assistance to the Government-s veterinary medicine pro-
gram. The project will build upon and complement the educational development
provided under earlier IDA-assisted education projects.
42.       The proposed project will comprise a three year phase (1981 to 1984)
of the Plan's investment program and will: (i) expand primary, secondary and
non-formal education; (ii) strengthen maintenance programs for educational
facilities; (iii) expand educational support services at the district level;
(iv) help reorient curricula towards practical work and studies; (v) help
establish a veterinary medicine education program; and (vi) help evaluate
educational methodology and the supply and demand for manpower. In particular,
the project will:
(i) construct 350 four-classroom primary schools;
(ii) expand 90 existing lower secondary schools;



- 14 -
(iii) convert 15 existing lower secondary schools to higher
secondary schools;
(iv) provide drilling equipment, vehicles and other
materials to construct water supplies for 60
secondary schools;
(v) strengthen the Ministry of Education's maintenance
programs for school buildings and equipment, and its
capacity to coordinate project activities;
(vi) strengthen educational support services by establishing
40 additional Awraja Pedagogical Centers;
(vii) expand non-formal education by establishing 40 additional
Community Skill Training Centers together with staff
training, and basic furniture and equipment;
(viii) increase the capacity of the Ministry's National Curriculum
Development Center to meet the needs of non-science curricula
and teaching materials development;
(ix) provide additional facilities at the Animal Health Institute
of the School of Veterinary Medicine; and
(x) carry out studies to evaluate the results of modifications
being introduced into the educational system, and to evaluate
the demand and supply of managerial and skilled manpower
with emphasis on the agricultural sector and on training
requirements.
43.       The primary school component will provide about 70,000 new student
places and enable about 123,000 additional students to be enrolled, assuming
that 75 percent of the schools adopt a double-shift plan. The expansion of
existing lower secondary schools will provide about 7,200 additional student
places and enable enrollment to be increased by about 11,700 students, assuming
63 percent of the schools adopt the double-shift plan. The schools will be
expanded through the attachment of "service modules", each module providing 80
additional student places and including facilities and equipment for one general
science laboratory, one physics/chemistry laboratory, one general purpose
workshop and one domestic science or commercial subject classroom. Converting
existing lower secondary schools to higher secondary schools will provide
about 2,100 additional student places and increase enrollments by about 3,150
if 50 percent of the schools adopt a double-shift plan. Service modules,
similar to, but larger than, the module for expanding lower secondary schools
will be added to each school to be converted. Each module will provide 140
additional student places and will include three science laboratories, three
workshops, and one business studies room to enable practical subjects such as
science, productive technology, agriculture, home economics and commerce to be
taught. The location of the proposed primary schools, and the selection of



- 15 -
proposed secondary schools to be expanded or converted, has still to be
finalized. Such decisions will be made on the basis of criteria that will
accord the highest priorities to rural areas, areas with no schools at present,
and areas with relatively low participation rates (Section 3.01(b)(ii)), and
Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). However, for at least 60
of the existing secondary schools, an expansion of water supplies is essential
and has therefore been included in the proposed project.
44.       Maintenance of educational equipment and school buildings has been
seriously neglected in the past, and the Ministry of Education currently lacks
the capacity to carry out adequate maintenance on a nation-wide basis.   The
increasing number of school units and the growing volume of equipment stress
the need for more effective maintenance. The Ministry's Educational Materials
Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA) procures and maintains secondary
school educational equipment and the Ministry's Building Maintenance Unit
maintains secondary-level school buildings, although some minor maintenance
work is being carried out by students and teachers through self-help. To
strengthen their capacities, both of these organizations will be expanded and
restructured into six zones covering the entire country. The EMPDA will be
provided with additional training facilities at the Addis Ababa headquarters
and specialist assistance in mechanical technology (three man-years at US$96,000
per year), and both will be provided with necessary equipment, vehicles, tool
kits, repair materials and spare parts for one of the six zonal units.
Primary schools are maintained by local community groups, but technical
assistance is provided by the Ministry when requested. The community work is
encouraged and tool kits and instructional materials are provided to the
primary schools for this purpose. The Government has prepared a satisfactory
plan to: (i) adequately maintain educational facilities; (ii) define relations
between the EMPDA and the Building Maintenance Unit; and (iii) obtain the
requisite personnel. In addition, the Government will furnish annually to the
Association a report and work program (including budgetary allocations and
staff training) for carrying out its maintenance programs, and will provide
the funds and other resources required to maintain the facilities provided
under the project (Sections 4.03(b) and 4.04, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
45.       The additional Awraja Pedagogical Centers will provide much-needed
support to the primary and secondary school development (para. 32).  Including
the 40 Centers proposed under the project, 69 of the country's 102 awrajas
will be equipped with a Center. Each APC will be staffed initially with a
*         coordinator, a development specialist, and an assistant teacher/instructor.
Five additional instructors will be assigned to each APC when its programs are
in full operation. Funds will be included in the project for about 35 three-
month overseas fellowships for training in appropriate technology and also for
staff development. The fellowships will be awarded by the Government in
consultation with the Association (Section 3.03 (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, the EEC and UNICEF are expected to provide equipment,
supplies and materials for the Centers. The Centers will be sited so as to
permit ready access to schools (Section 3.01(b)(ii), and Schedule 4, draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
46.       The Community Skill Training Centers will each comprise a modest
building that will include a work area, workshop, an office and a storeroom
(para. 33). Many will also have a dormitory, kitchen and related facilities
which will be constructed mainly by the local community. Each Center will be
staffed by a coordinator who will be assisted by development personnel from
various ministries as well as locally recruited craftsmen. The EEC is
providing funds for program development and evaluation. In selecting sites
for the Centers, priority will be given to those areas where there is no
Center at present, but where there is evidence of on-going development acti-
vity, training needs and community interest (Section 3.01(b)(ii), and Schedule
4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       The National Curriculum Development Center will be expanded and
provided with facilities to increase its capacity to prepare materials for
such subjects as family health, production technology, agriculture, busi-
ness, languages, mathematics, music, art and teacher training. The present
73 professional staff of the NCDC will be increased to about 140, and funds
also will be included in the project to employ short-term task forces of
teachers and contract personnel to assist the preparatory and testing work.
The Governnment will prepare semi-annual reports on progress in curriculum
development and the introduction of new courses in the schools, and review
them in consultation with the Association (Sections 3.05(d) and (e), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Research carried out by both the Bank Group and the Food and Agri-
cultural Organization (FAO) has confirmed that Ethiopia urgently needs a
veterinary school. The School of Veterinary Medicine will have a five-year
post-secondary program designed to meet the specific animal health problems of
Ethiopia and will contain facilities for about 120 students. The School will
be sited adjacent to the Government's existing Animal Health Institute with
which it is expected to share some facilities. The Government has appointed
the Dean of the School and provided a preliminary staff development program to
the Association. The Government will prepare a more detailed staff development
plan satisfactory to the Association by December 31, 1981 (Section 4.05, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
49.       The Government-s changes to its educational system involve major
shifts in philosophy, policy and structure. The Ministry of Education plans
to evaluate the effectiveness of the changes in school cycles, curricula and
teacher training practices by various methods including achievement tests
and tracer studies. In addition, the NCDC, with the assistance of the APCs,
will also monitor and evaluate the CSTC programs. The Government will prepare
specific proposals for the evaluation studies by November 30, 1981, and
exchange views on them with the Association (Section 3.06, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
50.       One of the pressing constraints to accelerated development in
Ethiopia is the shortage of qualified managers and skilled technicians. This
constraint is being felt in all sectors, but particularly in the agricultural
sector, which is receiving much of the focus of the Government-s plans to
increase production. In order to determine where efforts should be made to
help relieve these constraints, the Government plans to undertake a manpower



- 17 -
study. The Government will prepare proposals and an implementation schedule
for the study in consultation with the Association by December 31, 1981
(Section 3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53.7 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to US$8.1 million. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$25.3 million, or 55 percent
of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$45.6 million. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
52.       Costs have been estimated at March 1981 prices and have been derived
from recent quotations for similar items in other education projects. No
expenditures for land will be made since all building sites are owned by the
Government. Physical contingencies of five percent have been applied to all
project components. Price contingencies corresponding to expected inflation
total about 24 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies and, for
local costs, have been estimated at 15, 12, and 11 percent, respectively, for
1981, 1982, and 1983-85. For foreign costs, they have been estimated at 9.0,
8.5, and 7.5 percent, respectively.
53.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 28.2 million (US$35.0 million equiva-
lent) will finance 77 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties,
and cover all the foreign exchange requirements and US$9.7 million equivalent
of local costs. The Government will finance the remaining local costs of
US$10.6 million. In addition, the Government will meet the recurrent costs
generated by the project that are estimated to total about US$7.2 million
equivalent (in 1977 prices) annually from 1984 onwards, or about 4 percent of
the estimated recurrent education expenditure in 1985/86. Furthermore, the
EEC, UNICEF and Sweden are expected to assist elements related to the project
but no formal cofinancing arrangements are contemplated (paras. 33, 36, 45 and
46). The Association's financing of a high level of local costs is justified
in view of both the country's general economic needs (para. 22) and the sub-
stantial recurrent costs which the Borrower will have to meet.
Project Implementation
54.       The Ministry of Education will have overall responsibility for
project implementation. To fulfill this responsibility, the Ministry will
strengthen its Project Office which will be renamed the Project Management
Office (PMO). The PMO will report directly to the Permanent Secretary and
be given general authority and responsibility to oversee and coordinate
all project activities including those of the Ethiopian Building Construction
Authority (EBCA) and the Educational Materials Production and Distribution
Agency (EMPDA) (Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement). The PMO
will be established with a Project Manager, a Project Coordinator, a Project
Engineer, and a Project Accountant, all of whom will have qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association, and will be provided with
adequate technical and secretarial staff (Section 3.02 and Schedule 5, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The initial appointments of these four key
staff will be conditions for effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Locally recruited technical assistance will also be



- 18 -
provided to the PM0 to assist in project coordination (three man-years at
US$12,000 per year).
55.       The EBCA, which has competently implemented earlier IDA-assisted
education projects, will design, construct (using force account) or contract,
and supervise civil works in liaison with the PMO (Schedule 5, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The EBCA, however, will commission architects to
design the School of Veterinary Medicine and to supervise its construction.
In addition, the Ethiopian Water Resources Authority will help the EBCA to
implement the water supply component for the secondary schools. An experi-
enced General Manager heads the EBCA, which has fourteen regional offices,
each managed by an engineer. However, the accounting practices of the EBCA,
and also those of the PMO, are in need of strengthening. In connection with
project work programs (para. 57), the Ministry and the EBCA will prepare, for
review by the Association, proposals and a schedule for strengthening their
accounting practices in respect of IDA-assisted projects (Section 4.02, draft
Development Credit Agreement). About one man-year of specialist services in
accounting will be provided to the EBCA and PMO to help them carry out this
work. In addition, funds will be provided to finance the EBCA's incremental
expenses for project administration.
56.       The EMPDA will procure furniture, educational equipment and vehicles
in liaison with the PM0 (Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement) and
will be provided with specialist assistance (para. 44). The specialists
provided to the PMO, EBCA and EMPDA will be satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.03 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The Government will make available to the EBCA, as and when required,
the funds it needs to carry out its project activities (Section 3.01 (b) (i),
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the Ministry will prepare,
prior to each fiscal year, a detailed work program and budget satisfactory to
the Association for the EBCA's project activities. The Ministry will also
prepare a report at the end of each fiscal year on the EBCA-s activities
during that year, and review it in consultation with the Association (Sections
3.05 (c) and (e), draft Development Credit Agreement). The project accounts
of the Ministry (including the PMO and EMPDA) and the EBCA will be audited
annually by auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01 (c), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.       Except for the School of Veterinary Medicine, construction work
for all project items is scheduled to begin by late 1981 and be completed by
late 1984. Designs for the School of Veterinary Medicine are expected to
be ready by late 1982 and construction completed by early 1985. Monitoring
and evaluation work should also be finished by early 1985. The Government
will prepare a project completion report and furnish it to the Association no
later than four months after the Closing Date of the project (Section 3.05(g),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Contracts larger than US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and imported construction materials, estimated to total about US$21.5



- 19 -
million (including contingencies), will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Contracts smaller than US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment, vehicles
and locally produced construction materials, will be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Association. So also will civil works contracts to
construct the School of Veterinary Medicine, the NCDC and the secondary school
water supplies, since they are unlikely to attract foreign contractors not
already working in Ethiopia because of their small size. These locally
awarded contracts are estimated to total about US$4.8 million equivalent. The
EBCA will carry out all other civil works by force account. In those cases
where international competitive bidding is used, domestic manufacturers will
be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign suppliers. In
addition, local civil works contractors will be allowed a preferential margin
of 7-1/2 percent over bid prices of any competing foreign contractors.
60.       The Association will disburse against:  (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures on imported construction materials and directly imported furniture,
equipment and vehicles; (ii) 85 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory)
on locally manufactured furniture, equipment and vehicles; (iii) 65 percent
of total expenditures on imported but locally procured furniture, equipment
and vehicles; (iv) 80 percent of total expenditures on civil works (including
works executed by force account) and locally procured construction materials;
(v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures
on technical assistance including specialist and professional services,
curriculum and staff development, fellowships, and the manpower study; and
(vi) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures
to meet the EBCA's incremental expenses for project administration. Disburse-
ments for civil works executed by force account, project administration, and
curriculum and staff development, will be made against certificates of expendi-
ture with documentation retained by the agencies concerned and audited annually
by auditors acceptable to the Association.
Benefits and Justification
61.       The project will strongly support the Government s plans to improve
educational quality and manpower training, to provide a wider distribution of
educational opportunities, and to achieve universal primary education within
a decade. The expansion of enrollments that will be enabled by the project
at the primary and secondary levels will be almost entirely in the rural
areas where educational opportunities are the poorest (para. 43). This
expansion will be a significant step towards adjusting the imbalance in school
distributions and will also complement the Government's efforts in other
sectors to promote rural development. The curriculum revision with its
increased emphasis on practical subjects and community development activities,
together with the expansion of non-formal, adult education, will help to equip
a large cadre of Ethiopians to play a more productive role in the development
process and to improve their living standards.
62.       Implementing the project is expected to produce about 2,300 man-years
of employment and, when completed, the institutions included in the project are
expected to employ over 3,000 additional staff.



- 20 -
63.       Two risks could affect the project's progress.  First, the project
incorporates many elements that are innovative to Ethiopia, and therefore
could pose unforeseen difficulties. The implementation process, however,
has been the subject of considerable forethought and analysis. In addition,
safeguards such as increased school supervision and staff training, and a
monitoring and evaluation system, have been included in the project to minimize
this risk. Secondly, implementation of the Government's Education Plan entails
sizeable recurrent costs that could possibly become a budgetary burden if the
economy does not expand as expected. To anticipate and minimize any difficul-
ties, the level and growth of recurrent expenditures will be reviewed often
(para. 37).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of the Association, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
66.       An additional condition for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be the appointments of a Project Manager, a Project Coordinator,
a Project Engineer and a Project Accountant (Section 6.01, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
67.       An additional condition of suspension will apply with respect
to expenditures on any facility included in the project which shall not
be accessible to the Association-s representatives as required for the
efficient execution of the project (Section 5.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 24, 1981



- 21 -                                          A1NEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
ETHIOPIA - SOCTAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPLA                      ReEPENENcE GP0U7S (WEICHTfI 0VE94001E
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - POST RECENIGHATEDAV F)-
TOTAL           1221.9
AGR ICULTURAL    783.3                                 MOST RECENT           L.' INCOIIF            MIDDLE TNCO LO
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTDIATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOU74 0F SAHAPA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0         70.0     130.0                 26c.0                  868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
lKILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       8.0        33.0       20.0                 80.7                   691. 4
POPULATIOR AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MOD-YEAR (MILLIONS)     20.1         25.5      31.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL)  6.4          9.3      13. 4                 17.3                   2P.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       52.0
STATIONARY POPCLATION (MILLIONS)                        139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2175
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Em.                       16.0         21.0      25.0                 27.4                    71.'
PER SQ. AH. ArRICULTURAL LAND     25. 0        32.0      39.0                 82.6                   128. 0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT'
0-14 YRS.                         43.9         44.8      45.0                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         53.5        52.6       52.3                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AIID ABOVE                  2.6          2.6       2.5                  2.0                     2.8
POPULATION GROETH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1          2.1       2.5                  2.7                     2.7
URBAN                              4.9          6.1       7.3                  6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRT3 RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0         50.0      49.0                 47.4                    46. P
CRUDE DEATS RATE (PER THOUSAND)     28.0         26.0      25.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          2.9       3.3                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FPOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0       101.0       82.0/c               91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREaIENTS)                  83.0         83.0      75.0                 90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0         65.0      58.5                 53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       25.0         26.0      22.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     43.0         39.0      37.0                 27.7                    21 3
EEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0        38.0       39.0                 45.3                    5T. I
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        178.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0       6.0                 23.2                    31.n
URBAN                               ..          ..       32.0                 58.0                    66.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        2.0                 16.8 
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         14.0      14.0                 28.9
LRBAN                               ''        67.0       56.0                 67.0
RURAL                               ..          8.0       8.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         89357.0      75744.0   76318.0              30410.4                 !4508.2
POPULATION FER NURSONG PERSON         ..      24424.0   20310.0               5793. 2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           3000.0      3023.0        ..                1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                               ..       350.0
RURAL                               ..      15370.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         10.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          4.5
URBAN                              3.5          4. 2
RLRAL                               ..          4.5
AVERAGE NEIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                               ..          ..
ERBAN                              2. 7         ..
RURAL                               ..           .         .
ACCE3S TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                             58.2/          ..
RIIRAL                              ..          ..



- 22 -                             ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGEITED AVE  CES
- MDST RECENT ESTIHATE)
MOST RECENT            LOW IC0H4E             MIDtPLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLUSIEtr RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   7.0        17.0       26.0*                 57.7                    61.7
MIALE                 11.0         24.0        ..                  74.2                     69.2
FEHIALE                3.0         11.0        ..                  54. 1                    51.4
SECOtlDARY:   TOTAL                 0.4          4.0        8. O*                10.0                    20.6
MALE                   1.0          6.0        ..                   13.7                    29.2
FEtlALE                0.1          2.0        ..                   7. 1                    14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  20.0           4. 5       3.0                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDIARY                            38.0         48.0       50.0*                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                           13.0        28.0       38. 0*                25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         6. L     10.0*                 25.5
CONSUMiPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         2.0        1.8                   3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0          6.0        7.0                  31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         0. 3       0.7                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TIOUSAND POPULATION                    2.0         1. 0       2.5                   4.6                    24. 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                    ..                     0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8974.8      10955.0   13041.2
FEIlALE (PERCENT)                  35.4         34.9       34.0                  33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88. 1        84. 1      81.0                  80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.5          5.8        7.0                   8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7        43.5       42.4                  42.2                    38.8
MALE                                  58.7        57.6       56.3                  55.1                     48.4
YEIALE                                31. 2       30.0       28.9                  29.5                    29.4
ECONOhIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0       1. I                  1.2                      1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOlIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHIOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOUEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      115.0                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       77.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       37.0                  65.0
LSTDIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       60.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.0                  66.9
. 0tl  available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group a--eraNes for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
a.ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   FAO dt  diLfer somewhat from Ministry of Agriculture data, and may exaggerate the apparent decline;
Id 1965; /e Addis ababa only.
Ho-t rece t e-tiUate of UNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980
*Recent estimates from governmnicit sources indicate that primary and secondary
enrollment ratios, and the adult literacy rate, are about 38 percent, 9 percent
and  15  percent,  respectively.    Pupil-teacher  ratios  are  about  60  and  40  at  the
primary and secondary levels, respectively.



-23-                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3
Notee:  Although the data  are -cier lro   -.crto   gencrolo    dcc tOo float auth-rtotloc  nod reliable, it  ho ld ls  be noted that they may non be inter-
-mloul -obaule  heo--r   i  -s  la-k or utood-rlot-          ftns   -di --poyt  oneS           diffore-t s   . onrl"a tt ce11letieg  the dare.  The data are, e..e-
thelea  , -sefol to ...or;-  -ordr  .1rft toe,   l -dtt   -oo, -sf charntertic  -erier  -a- differeocc- beco.en  -out-r
of Che sobiotooaotro  feoept for "iaptal Voop.oa  Il E.osIMira  soe  Oddle  --oe North Afrti- aed Mhddle fa-t       chosen.because of stronger
eoo-tltuasalllotas).   o te rfosco  arcydata . the .torges are populostos e-ighed  rlith.etto ....e for c-o  tidloator aed shoe   aly when at
lenthaf f thcoera   Itagopbtot   o ht  lodiloao.    Voo  rotteaeofoa io  e.                                     e  the iodiostoon dopcsdn oe the  -ollehility nf
data ad It  ot utfort.,caorfs noa   hecu-rclnd Irrla lo   trge   fco          .steo to  oohe. Tb e  strges eretly use fuli ts-perleg she o-lac
ILAN  AREA (thouan   aqt2 Poalttos  Io PhYslftle    Populatlon dittOd. by easIe  00i rntl phy-
Taral    Tosalearfae area  -mprislf lard  .r.a I.d  -1usd oaep.                              It.a. qasild from    eedtes1 -ch-n1 as uctoe..tny level.
Agrlcalturl  -to1     nt   otar..to         ao  usedteny_IParfto              ..r reetoty.  Ptooulution per N ersloa Person -  opulsttao   dIided  hy. esmbr of pestilnio
for crope, pa-su--, surket sod hi ebohrn gardra or to lir fale;  97 data                    eanadeae          trdeat  narsee, pro  otl    naso, sdseiseate noes.
Poonlnso  oc  gmosa    d - toe.    rbeo. sod cecel -  eelto i (teemi
blNP PER CAPITA 701S)   ftP pecaIaatjaratoretaespie cl-                                           rh,anrrl)dvedb  cho   re                    clo    ebr   of bhptelbd
rulaned ho Ieoc c-__ir lot  ethod as (O-oc   .-oI Aclac  fl77Otbets:1960.                      -valable to puhblc sdprlvtogea  end,epentalieed h.mpits1lsodem
190,ad  0979 dutu.                                                                         habilitaseti eon-ers. flepleetgl ace          b en hllsmet. peemegmeely seeffe:d
by at I...n ... phyoltian. .1tenblItehmeer preo-ldieg pelmoipally oenoioll
ERG150  MOVlrfTIO9  PEb CALtT  -  -unus  conup...c...         ooris    eg   (coal               ca ear  nor ilerlde.IRrlbslse   oeve  inaebae   n                               le
end laglse. ptreloa. oaeool gasod toro-  oulorsd  -eenratec-                        erer  no- emso.tly estfe.d by a phyom               tbe  by' m mdlel aemlsloeet,
trloftry)    slore            _ fcaleaoai  rPercp Ia 96, ol1970, aod 1978                      o-re, edldefe, etc.> whIch offee  o-psteote   lotoidenloe med provide .
d.t..                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limIted range of medire1 f.arlitbee..  Par stetitihal porpossal e hee  omp-
PePI7LATIOO 0040 VITAE ITAVIOTICI                                        ro~~tsl ioolude WHO.e protni     gee.c.  no d spestehieed hospItals, end coe1
Torh  epoanec.Ol-Year  eillloi -. As ot Jucy 1. 1960, 1970,  ood 1979                  dIsosprbsle   e 8oa   ubre   dleoss   raebre
data,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fron hospitals deitded by the eamber of hede.
Ipa  Pp -t-ttpret of total ) -   'bao ot arIas to tota  yoynlotoo";
anogonrrna            h0   97.-ed198tat.Av-rane thee ot Ho..sebeld, fr....o ter h ...ehold) -ttl   -rblo,. sd ns
Perulanler Pcoiectlooa                                                              A householp  d ro.t.e.        sgroup of .indivldnusI, who gh'rI 'ltveg.qtarter
Pealstoelyoa   210 -Cerontpoplaten  rojcroto  ar  boed  n 1Sf              sd  het  mat eals   Abeedercc1adgr myhoIma  et  he_ooode   S
total yopulattot hy age sod see cod theur norra~~llllo and Iotluy  ec.        the heuseheld foroatalolpcpoo
Pro0 cotton  orseesere fo  sooraltry rtes  ospr te  et three.tleolooIeI...-   At .ot_ber of ceros  oc  romtts.  rh     ted rare1 - Aesoegsom
toe litte -eyot uny at hursh tnoreusltgath countr t,I pee on pita iocoee                  bet ef persons per Otetu" to all eh.  en .rr l oeple  eoeoettoo..l
Ictol  atdlenae hf0onpetanc  e:tahbl!,lolgat7.  ocara _The yore-                  dallss        -eetltnly.  Detgeecladeseo-pee.mnmtstnnueed
tertlut.accootogto tIon  lone) sod pset ts-ttc pl-osing oroae.                    cntolurttofcetofdllnam   - nto.  erhn.  ndruob-
and -fet'Iity Itr-dt C.r projecetos purpaen-t   h..i .                                    cf-t   tota.1  nrbso, atd crol doollilens r-p-cti-ly.                     :.
obI brth rare Is equel so the dnarh raea. aol elao the  eg  ...uct.ro or-    EDUCAIcIt
_f.tte ..nale't.  Th, I tt acIeved only after fertility cabs ortdl to tO                Ad,ardtrhhaslne
tbe r-pla--ne   1-on  of net onto  rpr-dctti  rato, oh, es.eah geserati-c                 Preotncd     n  -   totli aesd  eae-lom oa,mtendfml
oftoe  roylaco  ireell  -t-tly.  The  -tatt.-O  popcIl.ta  noeta -tnoisno1,i ee  o-heptar1evla                                                    pero des   of-1apet
In thc year 20ff, sod the rate of decine of fe-lllttrate..tCep.lat-                         yer  hot sdjntnnnd fer diffcee%ts-leogteo  prm              d edatione foc
nest leoef .                                                       otoerlen nIs~~~~~~~~~~fh ceioe-sa  edeoentoon.rellnee   ma  st...ed 100 Pern..ee
Ve Iccal    ...r I.cli..c It coahed - The yese 0cr  iteoar    ocIr..alc   -eo  pupt 1, ore below or abon the offttta1 .thoa1 ago.
etehshorsci.Vood1 col-  oa,ml  and d.                                                                                              enae-GCptedaoa bes;ssnce.dany
Pepolatlat lislsaoes o   equre  at  leas  f... o-ac  of npprn-d prImacy to-treentoo
P-t q.,..    MiOd-rea  popularton per equaekuooor1    hcaes'o                                 -ootds nesea Io-a-lonal, ec teacher nrsnegtotri                ton   foe pepit
Pett  ara                                                                                      esl   f 12 to 17 yssr  oage; cnrreposdene  teaoom acegeerall
Pocaletios ose stucur  (cron   - Choidre  lo-a4 ....r. 1, or    -g                 '1             1-o1ud   teohole   tdattotl".or onher proc-n  whnh ePereto iodePn-
64yar)  adrtred (tO tear  and        I     P          e oof)e   rns e   at et--c yPy,.  j-nny or Aa de.partentsl of...ec.ndery itintstie..
IltIo; 190,190,ad 19798aa                                                                     ,ko-e c  ratto - prims,yo. ad setnedacy - Total stdeots meoolhed ie
P.rl Croo -Gowh Asta    oret -''        toa      ...onua  greet, rooco of tots1 old-           P.Ir1-t . od scoodsr   boedvdd  yn                    .e of nnmthere in tha
yea   oclteofr195f-6l,  160-70  and 1970-7f.                                                  -c_trdnro1-1itdiniedobyIe.
PPeplatioe Growth fate (pore..) - b. ace-VenusI grotto raL.. of other pop.-                    Adnie Isesyrte  prcn.                  Littrete eda1ts (able to  :md sod -ise)
latton to 191-tV   196-70, aed 1970-78.                                                 as Ierr-tnsocof tonal edale pep.ltisto  eged 19 yaom ad _tom.
loude eirth net  (re,tsh-ooad) - hsAl ..Iao-  birthn per rhoommo.d ot  itd-yc-
pcpolattes; 1900. 1970, aed 1971 dtte.                                                  CONSUMsPTION
CIc,eles D-lat       "prIhessod) - honual desLho yor Lheu..aod of  itd-yeoc                  Paoesgevr Cars (per thusenod pepulatito) - Passeeserosstprls   ee
"Pap"et, 1960  1970  ae   99dt,cr   one   oeta   ih  pros   acue   mese                                                                                         ecm   o
looe  eordutte  Ire.- Atoog. osher of daughoerseI woto ell hea  at                       nil, -osogij ochoclele.                                            h.       .
Icroo..sipeprduotc   peiodift  he noperi-nc- preneo  age_-ipec tI t- Rrc                  Sdi Recor            ctocdc lto)- All typem of oscm.i-eo  fE.  cedjb
01icyote   sal   isy         e ranae   oiga   03   40  soS(97,                               rodoate to gec.ecll publIc per"thuado  pepaltri; sloeldes aeli-
toalo Plarts   cerors.A-Ia           uad.) -.occi nchco   tc   .                          ujrr0c    ocatosadI   eo  whenrgetrtlee of radio  n
ofthitth---ntrotdn-iososd-ccptnofIol,.,                                                                     ...oc.  ., eotrto .Stfrcn.t. er.ssthooprhntems
enoof tltild-hI..risg age 7`5-4 oasat  no    r  ,c . 0.ctr  ,tt                                  0,    -ytn.,d oprinult>q   - TO1 recetocre fot broadcemn no
IsLdee of Food Pr~dedatt  re  Cpla19h9-7~1dVI0  .  oe   i(r                                   05cto  Cruaio            er thouaotd,popu4th140) - Shoes the  -serge otinsit-
f  1  food -n-jil .Pt.    t ~       ~           ~          tor  o   dtl  gtorl  seresdomepe   ,deied  m apeie_ol  ab
poodoottod o  all, foodicoenod      dlti. Prd--co  etc-lode  todan   ee d                    lcnedeotdpimarily to reonrdi.g generl  oes1                  l Is t.....id-od
is  C atda    crhel.(esodlo    serpilrtgos(..  uoen                                     to be "datlo' if it appeoco at leas.t fear sIesateb
Isotead of esnar) erIch ate cdtln aed oenrelstnsrtenrn  (e.g. off-o ted  CLnens Asn..s) ALosac   re             2-os   oart,a-Ose.d ow the nubehe  of
to Ar  sac -laded).A ug Prg trrdotioro   ahcutyin Yanod 00                                   ttcho  tolddat.rtte,inldsgdtsootori-o   omm
na -et)anrge rroduoer prio- ceighta; 1961-65. 1970, sod 1079 data.ad eolfl, donsto..luig   .....todi i.i
ftryenta tfcet food n-rilee  oo -latl. ft  ...et.,. co  cplt-                LABcOR     F
eaporra., uAd casge  Itdoo.Ntep ..o toc lo do cots..)l fort, seed.                        j;0t.  FT?0-b  FTT,- .rtptheecdo  hsnlr,eeet,oe
used  o Icotooc   o~   td tco   t d-I   ct4           oqt-,b-                          nctu    norea ..ntgnnpeohe    9    197en
oenouoeraearistedbyft   -ood  c;,.y-t.-c-s  -cd,r rt,r nal  ci.                           n.,
olaaoaihcoendet -s   oorant            toetpo11rst., todo  ogit  ae             ftl        ruo.It - Potato       , aht.i..c an perootage of total labor forte..
and  ea  tarrIhuIcs  f"'P"'stn.adn  oief  pre   oftaso   t                        Ari-tr  Ipretl      ae   icr  ftfaon, faretry, hanetog sod
hoo.ehold  eon, 19h1-h, 1970, ar1971 data.                                               f F      npr anrg  of totallbrfrn116,17   n  198dos
Per capIa nupploof proten Jarameapr Seni-.Potlirtnntooonf p-orctpit           Iedusr  (peoct)    Labor force In nisiog, ron..sructiao, me .tfaeolog
ne   upyof food per ley.  Net eup:lr  tta  i0deIned an atb.-   P-                   .roet          1.ase   n   a   npeonaeo   oa  lbor forPe; 1960,
qa    tosefealcattsethuhdGoGo   rod   o   tiu                                         90ad17  dta.             .    I       eo.tg
aloteof h0 gran  ofarl1 pr-tel~e p   dan nd 20 graen af aoa-ai end                 PartiiaieRs   prsn   total, n-I, and fml  -"aeltipanti 
pulse poerelo. of thich 10 grae should he a           Ie portelt    Tbeae stand-td..tt.,   1, .  f-.   bl  ....
areoemteri ha  ths     toh5 rn  o   otlpo toWo Vgato                                   e   ren    rcnl. male mnd femal  populatito a S all-gemr-mp-tht-ly;
aetnalproteI  so s  onerae forthe aeict,d ovpcnd by FA40 to to hIr             1900  .970, and 1975 date.  These are110 partioip.tin  manse csflct I.&
Werld Peed Vortey; 1961-b5, 1970 o-a 1977 dots,.ao  r   r tr  of the pepulatiee, end long nine treed,  A fet seti-
Per ototta rroetn auttlo from atOnal and rolno-dro Ietapyl! f -t6o do-       loe   r   ie   saloa   noon
rnd froI alsai  aed puenI  gran  per day; i.l.,.7.sdl..r cool  ocdec   al      abee   euano   ne   9en   0sdao
Child (ages 71-1   letlit  taele housand, - heuti deah  Peth-snad to                           t  the ntat  labor foree.
son group 1-4 onore, to children is ths age graup; for moa  d:eoo.optng coos-
resdoraIderli-d from  life tehlas: 19600. 1970 end 1977 data.                        10NC540 DISTRIBLTION
P-rcotsgeof _proat Ioo.e fbonh 10 coobh med lkied) - Re..eited bY hotthm
ILATtH topy.to.t trhbem                 A- Aogo nuber of Y..rt of lateI.. ienang n0p  .. oroo, rtohest 10 percent, poorest 20 percent, end peoceme 40 perreot
at bIrth; 1960. 1970 and 1978 data.
Isfast             fitllolate  (per tha..sod) - hoa-1 deothe of lofa-te ueaer oen  dear    POVVEPTf TaRET   UdPh
Numb.:er o',fpepetaa,ah,en mal efbbitro.onableaoest  aeednIItr-ll  aq                                              Is die  pla  tmente  te-feorq _omssIs no
warorsIpyir (includn treated surfare eser  orl untreatled hnt anostmist                      I ffordable.
pbcsar   fteIr res pecttive popnlasen. In a    hn  area a pubhir                    'urnl IdRelatine P--rytcoalvl  noethdofveaeprtIs
raauosb(r  ic rs  toul  ispl  toa  t  i.ei_ o_stcil.  -r creboothof tof hi oit
do  o:  oo   o sen  a. t sedto-i.or-  or:  i-'o-Sa fr  t-.l. i   Ob                                     ..        A9nla   eotlco    otl(eet                       ca
_boSt   noeoeda          -p                                                                   orcr        rrIt fpplro r          lorbafI uod     i r oah) sh  em...... eert
hocso5.tercs lnooa   ~ornoottAsslIo  ,L                                                                                            -ti,a,dp.b,.,a
rerel- Numes o peope  toal, obar.  nd rral"  cres  byorrrct
dtaoea   opmeteeo   herres.fscpltsn.fceatntt  sdSo'Tt    oo
pens  nutattlde os cllerlon  nd dnpcac,  cto  r eihosores-esf                            tosanu       (.al-ol  aca Poinnin  pprtesne
":d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Otbrtt
of urer rerea   en   aeeoso   c  aset-h  rid           -osr    br the useto
dt i:,   Is  t  a feiof othn)ts   r                pst  ..         -       t                                                               S",nt



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
Economic Indicators
Gross National Product in FY1980 1/ 2/             Annual Rate of Growth (%, constant prices)
US$Mln.    %             FY1975-80              FY1980
GNP at Market Prices           4069.6    100.0              3.1                   6.6
Gross Domestic Investment       425.6      10.5             8.0                  73.6
Gross Domestic Savings          252.5       6.2              -                     -
Resource Balance               -173.1      -4.3              -                     -
Export of Goods and NFS         551.4      13.5             5.1                  19.3
Import of Goods and NFS         724.5      17.8             5.4                   6.6
Output in FY1980 2/                Government Finance              Central Government
Value Added                                 (Br.Mln.)         X of GDP
US$Mln.     %                                FY1980      FY1980   FY1977-79
Agriculture      1870.5     50.8  Current Receipts            1538.0       18.2       16.4
Industry          576.6     15.6  Current Expenditures        1544.2       18.3       16.3
Services        1238.4      33.6  Current Surplus               -6.2       -0.1        0.1
3685.5    100.0  Capital Expenditures         374.6        4.4        4.1
Money, Credit and Prices                                                    June        June
(Calendar Years)                        1977        1978        1979       1979        1980
(Million Br. outstanding end of period)
Money supply                            1458.2      1693.9     1863.2      1848.0      2053.1
Bank Credit to Central Government        605.7       809.5      942.7       862.3      968.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                739.2     1017.7      1345.5      1222.7     1592.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                         21.4        23.4       22.7         --          --
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         255.1       291.6      340.3       336.2       361.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       16.6       14.3        16.0         --          --
Bank Credit to Public Sector              36.1        33.6       23.0         --         --
Bank Credit to Prviate Sector             22.8        37.7       32.2 
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Fiscal Year: July 8 to July 7.
2/ Provisional



- 25 -                  ANNEX I
Page 5
Balance of Payments                                                  Merchandise Exports (1978-80)
(Fiscal Years)                  1977      1978      1979     1980 1/   (Fiscal Year Average)
(Millions US$)                               US$Mln.    %
Exports of Goods, NFS          403.9    419.6    453.4    551.4   Coffee               280.1    71.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          510.2    619.2    667.0    724.5   Pulses                12.0      3.1
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -106.3   -199.6   -213.6   -173.1   Oilseeds                 5.7      1.5
Hides & Skins    48.9    12.5
Investment Income (net)         -1.8      -4.4      -2.6       3.8   Oilseed cake        3.1      0.8
Net Transfers                   59.1      68.0      82.9      77.3   Other              39.9    10.2
Balance on Current Account   -49.0   -135.7   -133.3    -92.0                Total    389.7   100.0
Direct Private Foreign                                               External Debt, June 30, 1980
Investment                    7.0       4.1       --       __                           US$Mln.
Net MLT Borrowing               43.7      32.7      73.1      81.9   Public Debt, incl.
Disbursements               (62.1)   (49.6)   (88.4)   (98.9)    guaranteed
Amortization                (18.4)   (16.9)   (15.3)   (17.0)  Total outstanding &
Short-term Private Capital       3.5    -13.5    -19.0    -14.3        Disbursed            670.2
SDR Allocations                                      4.6       4.8   Debt Service Ratio for FY1980
Change in reserves (- =%
increase)                   -23.7    125.8       45.7     39.1   Public Debt. incl.
Errors & Omissions              18.5      13.4      28.9    -19.5       guaranteed
Gross Reserves (end year)    390.3    264.4    218.7    179.6   Total outstanding and
Petroleum Imports            57.4      60.0      68.2    120.3      Disbursed                5.6
Petroleum Exports            12.6      12.2      13.6      26.0   IBRD/IDA Lending (Feb 28 1981)
Outstanding &
Disbursed        54.7   257.4
Rate of Exchange                                                     Undisbursed           -    122.2
Outstanding incl.
Since 1974                                                         Undisbursed       54.7   379.6
US$1.00 = Br. 2.07
Br. 1.00 = US$0.48
=  not available
=  not applicable
1/ Provisional
April 10, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1981)
Amount
Loan or                                                            (US$ millions)
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number           Year     Borrower      Purpose                     Bank      IDA      bursed
Twelve loans and twelve credits fully disbursed.                   108.6    109.3
Cr. 269-ET       1971     Ethiopia      Dairy                                  4.4      1.1
Cr. 332-ET       1972     Ethiopia      Highways V                            17.0      0.1
Cr. 417-ET       1973     Ethiopia      Education III                         10.0      0.6
Cr. 485-ET       1974     Ethiopia      Drought Areas
Rehabilitation                     10.0       2.3
Cr. 486-ET       1974     Ethiopia      Wolaita Agriculture II                12.0      3.3
Cr. 552-ET       1975     Ethiopia      Highways VI                           32.0      2.0
Cr. 553-ET       1975     Ethiopia      Education IV                          23.0      4.2
Cr. 554-ET       1975     Ethiopia      Telecommunications V
(2nd Tranche)                    16.0       4.7
Cr. 603-ET       1976     Ethiopia      Rangelands Development                27.0     19.5
Cr. 708-ET       1977     Ethiopia      Road Sector                           32.0     18.7
Cr. 707-ET       1977     Ethiopia 1/  Revised Amibara Project                25.0     12.8
Cr. 789-ET       1978     Ethiopia      Grain Storage and
Marketing                          24.0      12.9
Cr.1088-ET       1980     Ethiopia      Agricultural  Minimum
Package II                         40.0 2/  40.0
Total                                                   108.6    381.7    122.2
of which has been repaid                              53.9       2.1
Total now outstanding                                    54.7    379.6
Amount Sold                                   6.0
of which has been repaid                    6.0          -         -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                        54.7    379.6
Total Undisbursed                                          -      122.2    122.2
1/ Us$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr. 418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has been
repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/ Credit 1088-ET is denominated in SDRs (SDR 32 million).



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1981)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                        Type of              Amount
Year      Obligor                             Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965      Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I        Textiles      1.5       1.0      2.5
1966      Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.         Paper          -        1.9      1.9
1968      HVA Metahara, S.C.                  Sugar         5.5       3.5      9.0
1970      Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II       Textiles      0.5       0.2      1.7
Total Gross Commitments                          9.0       6.8      15.8
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                   8.8      4.2      13.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                0.2       2.6       2.8
Total Undisbursed                                 -         -         -



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Cr. No. 269:      Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project:  US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The dairy farm investments have been completed but many farms
have experienced reductions in farm and herd sizes, partly due
to disruptive effects of the land reform. The Government is
reviewing ways to counter this problem. Following a slow
start-up, the expansion and renovation of the Shola dairy
plant has been proceeding satisfactorily and is now almost
completed. The development of milk production centers has
also progressed satisfactorily. A study of state dairy farms
has been undertaken to identify priority investments to rehabilitate
them.
Cr. 485:         Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project:  US$10 million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Disbursements on all project components have been completed
except those for the Sirinka Pilot Catchment Rehabilitation
sub-project. Both the development of the sub-project's
conceptual framework and its physical implementation have
progressed well during the past year.
Cr. 486:          Second Wolaita Agricultural Development Project:  US$12.0
million Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 4, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind
schedule, partly because of serious staffing problems
encountered in the early stages. The buildings and road
construction components have been making good progress.
The extension program has been improved, and the rural
handicrafts program has recently been showing marked
improvement. However, progress on the livestock breeding,
poultry production and conservation research components
continues to be slow.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 552:           Sixth Highway Project:  US$32 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory. All feeder road contracts are
progressing well and are nearing completion. All contracts
for highway maintenance equipment have been awarded and most
of the equipment has been delivered. A study of the technical
assistance needs of the National Transportation Corporation
has been completed.
Cr. No. 553:           Fourth Education Project:  US$23.0 million Credit of June 4,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 6, 1975; ClDsing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Physical implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The
project is over 80 percent complete, approximately in line
with the appraisal estimates. The Association approved
government requests to utilize expected savings to meet
operational costs, training and evaluation related to the
Alternative Technology Center, and to construct additional
primary and secondary schools. The University Social
Science Center has been completed and is now in operation.
Progress on the Forest Ranger School and the Cooperative
Training Center is behind schedule, but the Ministry of
Agriculture is taking steps to speed their construction.
CU. No, 554:            Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche):  US$16.0
million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
August 26, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule
because of various difficulties, including shortages of con-
struction materials and certain categories of staff, that were
encountered during the early stages of the project. In recent
years, however, the Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia (TSE)
has made concerted efforts to speed up civil works and equip-
ment installation.  Most of the buildings for exchange and trans-
mission equipment have now been completed. The interurban
switching equipment, the telex exchange, and most of the trans-
mission systems have been installed.  In addition, a compre-
hensive training program has been prepared for TSE's staff.
Cr. No. 603:           Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million Credit of
January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 18, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is over two years behind schedule,
primarily because of security constraints, but has
improved significantly in recent years in the secure parts
of the three sub-project areas. The project organization
is well-developed and most of the infrastructure is now
in place. However, a key phase of the project -- range
rehabilitation and management -- has still to be carried
out.



-30 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 707:           Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million Credit
of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The
construction of headworks and irrigation systems is mostly
on schedule, but on-farm works are behind schedule. The
quality of the on-farm works, however, has improved recently.
A first stage area (about 400 hectares) was irrigated in
1980, and good yields of cotton are expected. Significant
delays have been experienced in the preparation of settlement
plans and alternative grazing areas for the Afar people.
Cr. No. 708:           Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway):  US$32.0 million
of July 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress in implementing the Five-Year Road Program has
been slower than expected at appraisal, but generally
satisfactory. Good progress has been made on primary and
secondary road construction. Satisfactory progress has
also been made in establishing the new Rural Roads Organi-
zation,but the feeder roads component of the Program is
behind schedule. Arrangements have been concluded for
technical assistance and training. A US$10.5 million EEC
Special Action Credit (No. 34-ET) signed on November 30,
1979 to construct a 100 km Mota-Bahar Dar feeder road
subproject,is progressing well.
Cr. No. 789:           Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million Credit of
June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 7, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Start-up activities of the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(AMC) proceeded fairly smoothly and the bulk of vehicles
and equipment purchased by AMC have arrived in Ethiopia.
The quality of construction of storage facilities, however,
has not been satisfactory. Steps are therefore being taken
to improve quality, and to strengthen AMC's storage and
technical management. AMC's overall penetration of the
cereals trade has grown faster than estimated at appraisal,
giving rise to organizational, storage and transport problems.
The Government has disbanded the Ethiopian Grain Agency,
and has transferred its pricing and marketing functions to
the Ministries of Domestic Trade and Foreign Trade.



- 31 -                ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1088:           Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project:  SDR 32.0 million
(US$40 million equivalent) Credit of February 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is not yet effective. Project implementation
is just getting underay.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   Seven months
(b)  Preparation by:                    Government of Ethiopia with
the assistance of IDA staff.
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:    Continuous sector dialogue since
1965
(d)  First IDA mission:                 May 1976
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:       January 1977
(f)  First post-appraisal mission:    October 1978
(g)  Second post-appraisal mission:   January 1980
(h)  Negotiations:                      February 23 to 27, 1981
(i)  Planned date of effectiveness:   September 1, 1981
II.  Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government will prepare semi-annual reports on progress
in teacher training, curriculum development, the introduction
of new courses in the schools, and on the development of
recurrent expenditures for the operation and maintenance of
its educational institutions (paras. 35, 47, and 37 respectively);
(b) The location of the primary schools, Awraja Pedagogical Centers
and Community Skill Training Centers to be constructed, and the
selection of secondary schools to be expanded or converted,
will be decided according to agreed criteria (paras. 43, 45,
and 46);
(c)  The Government will prepare annually a report and work program
for carrying out its maintenance programs, and will provide
the funds and other resources required to maintain the facilities
provided under the project (para. 44);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The Government will award fellowships in consultation with
the Association (para. 45);
(e) The Government will prepare a staff development plan, satis-
factory to the Association, by December 31, 1981 (para. 48);
(f)  The Government will prepare specific proposals for evaluation
studies by November 30, 1981 (para. 49);
(g) The Government will prepare proposals and an implementation
schedule for a manpower study in consultation with the Associa-
tion by December 31, 1981 (para. 50);
(h) The Government will establish a Project Management Office (PMO)
and appoint to it four key staff -- a Project Manager, a Project
Coordinator, a Project Engineer and a Project Accountant -- who
will be satisfactory to the Association (para. 54);
(i) The initial appointments of the four key staff will be a condition
for effectiveness (para. 54);
(j) The responsibilities and functions of the PMO, the Educational
Materials Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA), the
Ethiopian Building Construction Authority (EBCA), and the four
key staff of the PMO, have been agreed (paras. 54, 55 and 56);
(k) The Ministry of Education and the EBCA will prepare proposals
and a schedule for strengthening their accounting practices
in respect of IDA-assisted projects (para. 55);
(1) The specialists to be provided to the PMO, EBCA and EMPDA will
be satisfactory to the Association (para. 56);
(m)  The Government will make available to the EBCA, as and when
required, the funds it needs to carry out its project
activities (para. 57);
(n) The Ministry will prepare annual reports, work programs and
budgets satisfactory to the Association in respect of the
EBCA's project activities (para. 57);
(o) The project accounts of the Ministry (including the PMO and
EMPDA) and the EBCA will be audited annually (para. 57); and
(p) A condition of suspension will apply with respect to expenditures
on any facility included in the project which shall not be
accessible to the Association's representatives (para. 67).






w                                                                          -a~~~~ 
0~ ~ ~~~~~ 
o~~~Q  ~~Q
-~~~~~~~   .~~~~~~~~~~  0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
uJ~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~)-  ~~~~~~~~  ~~~k
I                                                                            lb-i
~~~~~                     1V1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7~ ~~~~~44  



