Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17235-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$83.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
JULY28, 1998
Education Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1998)
Currency Unit =   Dong
VND 12,950 = US$1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DO            Development Objectives
E&T           Education and Training
FTE           Full-time Equivalent
HE            Higher Education
HEGTS         Higher Education Graduate Tracer Study
HEI           Higher Education Institution
HEIFS         Higher Education Institutional Finance Survey
HEQAC         Higher Education Quality Assessment Center
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IP            Implementation Progress
LAN           Local Area Network
LOI           Letters of Invitation
MOET          Ministry of Education and Training
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOSTE         Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
MPI           Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NIED          National Institute of Educational Development
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PAU           Proposal Assessment Unit
PCU           Project-specific Coordination Unit
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PPUS          Project Preparation Unit Secretariat
QlGs          Quality Improvement Grants
SC            Project Steering Committee
SIL           Specific Investment Loan
SOE           Statement of Expenses
VEFSS         Vietnam Education Financing Sector Study
VLSS          Vietnam Living Standard Survey
VND           Vietnamese Dong
Vice President            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director              Andrew Steer
Sector Manager                 Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader             Christopher Shaw



-ii-
Vietnam
Higher Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analysis
i. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
L Compliance with Bank Policies



- Hii -
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Project Description
Annex 3.      Components Project Cost Summary
Annex 4.      Cost Benefits Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance
Map           IBRD 29692



Vietnam
Higher Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Education Sector Unit
Date: July 28, 1998                                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Christopher Shaw
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Steer                 Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: VN-PE-4828   Sector: Education             Program Objective Category: EA
Lending Instrument: IDA SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                 [  Loan        [x] Credit       [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$83.3 million/SDR 62.1 million
Proposed terms:                          [x]  Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [x]  Standard Variable   [   Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                             12.6                   0.0             12.6
Cofinanciers
IDA                                                    17.1                 66.2             83.3
Universities                                            7.8                  0.0              7.8
Total        37.5                  66.2            103.7
Borrower: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Guarantor: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Responsible agency: Ministry of Education and Training (MOET)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     FY99     FY00      FY01     FY02    FY03        FY04    FY05
Annual   4.0       10.0      13.0      20.0     18.0      14.0      4.3
Cumulative    4.0      14.0     27.0      47.0      65.0     79.0      83.3
Project implementation period: six years  Expected effectiveness date: 11/28/98  Expected closing date: 06/30/2005



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project aims to: (i) increase coherence, flexibility and responsiveness of higher education to the changing
demands of society and the' market economy; (ii) improve efficiency and resource utilization in higher
education; and (iii) improve the quality of curriculum, teaching, learning and research in higher education.
Thus, the long-term objective of the project is to improve higher education's level of coordination and
coherence at the system level as well as build capacity, accountability and autonomy at the institutional level.
Progress towards the development objectives and outputs will be monitored and assessed based on the key
performance indicators shown in Annex 1. These are: (i) the percentage of participating universities that use
the project survey inforrnation to guide their institutional strategic plans; (ii) the percentage of university
graduates gaining employment within 12 months of graduation; (iii) the increase in the average size of higher
education institutions; (iv) the proportion of social scholarships allocated to student from the three lowest
income quintiles; (v) the proportion of university teaching staff with postgraduate qualifications; and
(vi) improvement in the average flow-rates of students and their graduation rate.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
Current CAS: 15053-VN. Latest CAS discussion: 5/--/98 of new CAS document under preparation
The project meets the CAS objectives of assisting Vietnam 's transition to a market economy and alleviating
poverty through human resource development by: (i) providing advanced skills relevant for the market
economy through higher education reform, and (ii) improving cost-efficiency and equity within the sector by
rationalizing higher education institutions and reallocating resources to general education (par. 62 of CAS).
The project supports the CAS objectives by improving higher education's overall quality and relevance and
revising its pricing structure. The Vietnam Education Financing Sector Study (VEFSS) showed that, while
rates of return to HE are of an acceptable level, the private rate of return to HE is consistently almost twice that
of the social rate of return irrespective of the sector of employment (public, private or joint-venture). By
improving quality and relevance, the rates of return to HE can be expected to increase (limited evidence from
other transitional economies indicate that successful qualitative reforms lead to large earnings increases for HE
graduates). In addition, by establishing a process for revising HE's pricing policy -- raising fees and
improving the targeting of student scholarships and loans -- the difference between private and social returns
to HE will be reduced and equity will be improved.
2. AMain sector issues and Government strategy:
Global Education Issues: Overall education sector issues include: (a) relatively low government expenditure
on education and training (E&T) compared to other countries in the region --in 1994 government expenditure
on E&T was only 3.5% of GDP-- and relatively high cost recovery in education, with households bearing 43%
of the cost of all E&T activities; (b) skewed distribution of education subsidies [in 1993 per capita subsidies
for education at all levels were 3 times higher for the richest population quintile as for the poorest quintile]
together with inequities in cost recovery [private costs of E&T are disproportionately greater at lower levels of
education than at higher levels]; (c) weak coordination and coherence in education planning and
administration due to the multiplicity of central agencies and ministries responsible for the management of
different levels of education; and (d) declining quality of education and its low relevance to the demands of the
modernizing society and the emerging transitional economy.



Page 3
Higher Education Issues: Some major issues specific to the higher education sub-sector include: (a) economic
inefficiencies caused by the large number of highly specialized, small, mono-disciplinary institutions;
(b) widespread subsidies provided to students in tertiary education and low cost-recovery at this level;
(c) highlyfragmented and specialized higher education institutions (HEIs) with institutional structures and
procedures inherited from the era of central planning, and the poor accountability and weak autonomy of
individual HEIs with their control and oversight exercised by the specific line ministry to which the HEI is
linked; and (d) low responsiveness of the sub-sector to the changing needs of the labor market in Vietnam's
transition economy. This is primarily due to the existing institutional structure, and quality and content of
education currently provided by HEIs.
Government Strategy: The government of Vietnam recognizes that higher education has a significant
contribution to make in achieving the economic reforms introduced in the late 1980s, and its achievements to
date are impressive. It has attempted to address some of the above mentioned sub-sector issues by:
(a) improving efficiency through mergers of a few specialized HEIs into multidisciplinary universities -- such
mergers have been only partly successful; (b) introducing student tuition fees while providing merit and need-
based scholarships and student loans to ensure equitable access; (c) allowing the establishment of quasi-private
universities; and (d) restructuring the internal pedagogical organization of some universities by switching to a
module/credit method identified within a newly formulated National Qualifications Framework. A core
curriculum for first phase undergraduates has been introduced. Issues of institutional weaknesses within
higher education have not yet adequately been addressed and the government is looking for assistance from
the World Bank to address this, and to fine tune efforts in addressing the other sub-sector issues.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
Education in Vietnam is already receiving external support (elementary education through an ongoing IDA
credit and high schooling through an ADB project). Nevertheless, the government is unable to resolve all the
above issues, and needs external support in order to initiate substantial changes in the higher education system.
Analysis undertaken jointly by government and the World Bank indicates that the above sector problems are
linked to two key issues: (i) a lack of coordination and coherence in the HE system as a whole; and (ii) the
absence of institutional autonomy, accountability, management and teaching capacity. These two issues
manifest themselves in the following three ways: (a) the lack of responsiveness of the higher education system
to changing demands of society and the market economy; (b) the low efficiency of higher education; and
(c) the poor quality of higher education. The World Bank's intervention in this sub-sector will specifically
target the above and thereby address the overarching issues within the higher education sub-sector.
Until now, institutional policy and financing have been decided centrally, based mainly upon plan targets for
student enrollments. Government funding of HE has been negotiated with individual institutions and it has
been predetermined, direct, financial support. The main strategic choice of this project is the establishment of
a sustainable, output-oriented, competitive, flexible financing mechanism where the use of funds is not
predetermined several years in advance. This strategy is supported in two ways. First, the output orientation is
supported through the creation of a performance and quality monitoring mechanism. Second, the move to
more flexible and competitive funding is supported through the introduction of "quality improvement grants"
to selected universities. Universities meeting eligibility will compete for investment funds on the basis of their
own strategic planning and choices. The eligibility criteria include satisfactory academic and financial
performance, and participation in performance monitoring and institutional strategic planning,



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component #1: System-wide and Institutional      Policy and
Capacity, Building and Computerization           Institution
(i) Improved centralized functions of governance,  building
oversight, planning, management and administration of              2.5     2%
the higher education system through training, provision
of administrative tools, software and related equipment,
computerization and technical assistance.
(ii) Improved institutional-level functions of planning,          15.0    15%        6.4     8%
management and monitoring functions of all HEIs,
through training, technical assistance and related
equipment.
(iii) Development of higher education institutions'                4.3     4%        3.2     4%
computerized networks, information sharing and
administrative management, through training, provision
of computerized administrative tools, software,
computer and related communications equipment and
technical assistance.
Component #2: University Investments through     Physical
competitive Quality Improvement Grants to selected    inputs (non-  79.1    76%     69.8    84%
qualifying universities to finance sub-projects.  civil work)
Component #3: Strengthening the MOET's capacity    Project         2.8     3%        2.2     2%
for project management and implementation through  Management
provision of equipment, staff training, and technical
assistance.
Total          103.7   100%        83.3   100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports improvement of the centralized functions needed for improved governance, oversight,
planning and administration of the higher education system at both the system-wide and the institutional
levels. The project also provides support, on a competitive basis, for qualitative improvements in teaching and
learning at selected higher education institutions. The main reform is the introduction of competitive funding
in higher education based on performance monitoring. Other reforms include integration and improved
coordination and coherence of higher education at the system level, and the strengthening of capacity,
accountability and autonomy at the institutional level.



Page 5
3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
Benefits: First, by improving the quality and relevance of higher education, the project addresses a critical
constraint in Vietnam's transition to middle income status and a more industrialized society - the shortage of
Vietnamese middle-managers and skilled professionals required to sustain industrial/manufacturing growth.
Currently, there is a paucity of such critical skills. Making higher education more responsive to these growing
skill gaps and able to respond to changing skill demands in a market economy is a key objective of the country
strategy. Second, the project will support policy development aimed at a revision of the higher education
pricing policy (tuition fees and exemptions) and more efficient use of public investments in higher education.
This will reduce distortions within the government's education subsidy, and improve equity through revisions
to the student loan and scholarship scheme. Third, the project builds on sector work on education financing
and will contribute to efficiency improvements. It will promote potential economies of scale and lower unit
costs of graduates, through incentives in Component #2 for the consolidation of higher education institutions.
Finally, by redefining the role of government in higher education and by increasing institutional autonomy and
accountability, the project will reinforce structural change and develop the institutions and courses needed to
pursue the move to a market economy.
Target population: Public and private higher education institutions and universities in Vietnam and the
student/staff population within them (except provincial teacher training colleges).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over a period of six years (start-up will be in
November M998, completion December 31, 2004, and closure June 30, 2005).
Executing Agencies: Overall coordination of all executing agencies will be through a project-specific
coordination unit created inside the Ministry of Education and Training (PCU/MOET). Responsibility for the
execution of actions under component #1 will lie with various departments of the Ministry of Education and
Training (MOET) while that for component #2 will lie with universities assisted by various departments of the
MOET. Details of the implementation responsibilities for the project sub-components are as follows:
Component #1 - Capacity, Institution Building, and Computerization
System-level
*  HE Policy Development (Project Steering Committee & MOET)
*  Performance Monitoring of HEIs (Project Steering Committee & MOET)
*  Quality Assurance and Accreditation (Higher Education Quality Assessment Center of MOET)
*  Funding Formula & Pricing Policy (Project Steering Committee)
*  University Regulations and Charters (MOET)
Institution-level
* University Strategic Plans (Universities & Planning and Finance Dept. of MOET)
* University Planning Offices (Universities & PCU)
*  Graduate Tracer Surveys (Universities & PCU)
*  Careers Advisory Services (Universities & PCU)
Information Technology Development
*  University Administration Software Packages (Universities and PCU)
Component #2 -- University Investments
University Quality Improvement Awards
*  Proposal Assessment (Proposal Assessment Unit)
* Specialized Subject Review (PAU)
* Quality Improvement Awards (Universities)
Component #3 -- Project Management & Coordination
* Project Coordination Unit (MOET)
* Procurement Advisory Services (PCU)
* Grant Application Advisory Services (PCU)



Page 6
Project coordination: will be carried out by a project coordination unit (PCU), created in the Ministry of
Education and Training. The project will have a part-time high-level National Director and the following full-
time national staff: a National Manager, two Program Officers, a Training Officer, a Finance Officer and a
Purchasing/Procurement Officer. The PCU will be responsible for all project accounting, the implementation
of component #1 activities, the oversight of the use of all QIGs awarded under component #2, and it will
provide purchasing and procurement advisory services to universities.
Project Oversight (policy guidance etc.,): will be the responsibility of the Project Steering Committee of the
Ministry of Education and Training (SC). The Project Steering Committee will be chaired by the Minister of
Education and will comprise ministers or vice-ministers from MOET, MPI, MOF, MOSTE, rectors of selected
national and regional universities, and a representative of employers.
Accounting,financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PCU will be responsible for project
financial management, accounting, reporting and ensuring external auditing of all project related expenditures
using systems and procedures acceptable to the Association. Detailed accounts will be kept for all project
expenditures and separate accounts will be maintained for use of the funds allocated to QIGs. Accounts,
including all disbursements under SOEs, will be audited annually, following international standards, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Auditors reports on project finances, special accounts, and
SOEs, will be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project supports comprehensive monitoring and evaluation of
the higher education system in component #1 and will also undertake regular monitoring and evaluation of
implementation progress and the impact of the project on the higher education system. MOET will undertake
annual surveys of the financial operations of all higher education systems and the measurement of related
information on administrative and academic performance. The MOET's Higher Education Quality
Assessment Center (HEQAC) working with individual universities and higher education institutions will make
regular quality assessments of instructional programs and university administration. Results from both of the
above will be shared with all universities and published. Individual universities will monitor their response to
the labor market by conducting regular longitudinal surveys of their recent graduates (tracer studies).
Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and impact will be guided by: (a) the initial and annual
updates of the Borrower's Implementation Plan and the annual workplan for implementation; (b) quarterly
progress reports from the PCU; (c) joint monitoring of the agreed key performance indicators and their
inclusion the quarterly reports on project implementation progress; (d) regular IDA supervision missions, the
annual joint review of project implementation, and the mid-term review of project implementation; (e) regular
meetings of the project oversight committee; and (f) the annual audits of project accounts and grants, and an
annual report on the use of Quality Improvement Grants.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Strategy: Alternative strategies to the classical scenario of public funding and provision of HE
emphasized thus far by government include: (i) private financing of public HE through tuition fees, student
charges etc.; (ii) private financing of private, fee-paying, higher education institutions (HEIs); and (iii) public
financing of private HEIs. The high private rates of return to HE in Vietnam (as demonstrated in VEFSS 1996)
provide economic justification for supporting strategies of cost-recovery and private sector development in
HE. The project would redress the present public subsidization of HE by promoting the first two strategies
described above. However, given the government's present position and limited experience with private
universities, and the absence of a coherent legislative framework and information base, while the project will
support public subsidization of existing quasi-private institutions and will promote the transfer of some public
universities off budget, it will not provide public subsidies for the creation of new private universities. Given
the present political climate in Vietnam, the project adopts the optimal strategy of making public universities
more demand driven and responsive to a market economy.



Page 7
Project Scope: The Task Team considered the following two options: (i) Tight Project Scope: the initial
strategy proposed for World Bank assistance was that of targeting the majority of project funds as pre-
determined capital investments for two specific higher education institutions. However, it became increasingly
clear that this strategy would not improve the responsiveness of the entire system to the country's rapidly
changing needs, and that there was no guarantee that the two higher education institutions targeted to receive
funds were in any better position than other institutions to take maximum advantage of project funds.
(ii) Broad Sector-wide Focus: project preparation was then revised to reassess the major sub-sector issues and
to investigate strategies that would have a broader and deeper reform impact on the whole education system by
using Bank funds as direct budgetary support and structuring the operation as a sectoral adjustment. However,
this option was not followed due to concerns regarding the demanding character and the potential risks of a
sector-wide adjustment operation with a higher education focus, and the readiness of Vietnam for a policy
based operation. The Task Team adopted a more moderate option which, in terms of project scope, lies in
between the formner two alternatives. The current project design is more flexible than the first option as all
higher education institutions, except provincial level teacher training colleges, may compete for project funds
if they meet the eligibility criteria, but is tighter in project scope and focus than the second option.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector. issue                    Project              Lts        aig
I_______________________________ L__________________________    (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Reform & rationalization of       Nigeria: Federal Universities      S                S
university system                 Development Sector
Adjustment Operation (2127)
Improve responsiveness of higher    Hungary: Human Resources         S               HS
education to market economy       (8483)
Establish competitive environment   Argentina: Higher Education      S
for improvement of higher education  Reform Project (34091)
Quality and efficiency improvement  Indonesia: Higher Education      S                S
11 (3939)
Create decentralized and demand-    Malaysia: Polytechnic            HS              HS
driven polytechnic system         Development (4309)
Improve quality and management in  China: Provincial Universities    HS              HS
provincial universities           (3443)
Expand and improve technical and    China: University                HS              HS
managerial manpower               Development 11 (3431)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project would be the first higher education project and only the second education project to be
implemented in Vietnam. However, several lessons can be drawn from similar projects in other parts of the
world (see above). The project in Nigeria is a sector adjustment operation which uses several conditions to
leverage sector-wide reform and rationalization of the federal university system. Two levels of conditions,
sector-wide and institutional specific, are used since a threshold number of universities must meet eligibility
criteria before project funds are disbursed. However, the inability to achieve the required threshold number of
eligible universities has created delays in disbursing funds, thus penalizing the few eligible universities. The
projects in Hungary and Argentina have established improvement grants for eligible universities to provide
incentives for improvements in quality, efficiency gains and transparency in funding mechanisms of higher



Page 8
education institutions. The Argentina and Indonesian projects have components that emphasize
(i) institutional development; (ii) improvements in planning and management; and (iii) increasing financial and
academic accountability. Lessons learned from the experiences of the above projects indicate that to address
similar issues of higher education's quality, efficiency and responsiveness to the economy, project design
should include several of the strategies/components used in the above projects, with the necessary adaptations
to the Vietnamese context. Examples from the region (Indonesia, China, Malaysia) and transitional economies
(Hungary, Romania) confirm the project design choice of primary emphasis on improvements in quality,
planning and management of the sub-sector and specific investments at the institutional level. Implementation
experience with the ongoing primary education project in Vietnam shows the need for detailed preparation to
ensure rapid project startup. To counteract implementation delays several of the activities in component #1
were pilot tested during preparation and will thus implement rapidly.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government and implementing agency (MOET) have been committed to a higher education project since
its identification. During the January 1997 mission, the MOET endorsed the Task Team's sector analysis and
project description, and, again during in June 1997, it confirmed its agreement with the project scope and
content. The government has taken ownership of the project by creating: (i) a project steering committee
comprising of representatives of key ministries/ government agencies to advise and guide project preparation
and implementation; and (ii) several working parties that have carried out analysis and capacity building
during the project preparation on: (a) higher education policy; (b) higher education resource use and internal
efficiency; (c) system quality assurance and national accreditation; (d) institutional management and strategic
planning; (e) pricing policy; and (f) tracer surveys of university graduates.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value-added of the World Bank support to this operation is threefold: (i) the Bank's experience and
expertise in the area of higher education reform (a comprehensive review of the sub-sector was undertaken and
the policy paper Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience was published in 1994); (ii) the Bank's
reputation for providing impartial and effective policy advice in the areas of public finance and education
policy (the recent non-lending activity Vietnam Education Financing Sector Study (VEFSS) provides such
policy advice and its recommendations ought to be taken advantage of at this time); and (iii) while government
has taken preliminary decisions and sketched out the broad lines of its higher education reform, it requires
assistance in fully implementing the reforms and translating them into operational strategies and action plans.
The unique combination of the Bank's awareness of sector and macro-economic issues makes it the best
equipped of the international partners to provide such assistance.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported byAnnex 4): [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV-US$49.2 million; ERR=18%
Economic Assessment: (see Annex 4 for details) The economic benefits of this project are estimated by
quantifying: (i) cost savings at the institutional level arising from improvements in university administration
and economies of scale reflecting the elimination of undersized universities, and (ii) an increase in the
incremental eamings of university graduates resulting from more efficient modern learning that is relevant to
the needs of the economy. The cost benefit analysis does not capture a large number of other benefits
expected from the project (see Annex 4 for examples). Conservative assumptions are made about the portion
of the incremental earnings of university graduates that arise from the project. Nevertheless, the project is
economically feasible (ERR of 18%). Quantitative sensitivity analysis undertaken to test the vulnerability of
the analysis to the critical project risks shows that the analysis is particularly sensitive to the wage differential
attributed to university graduates.



Page 9
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact: Annex 5 provides a detailed financial assessment of the project and Table 2 of Annex 5
indicates that the project impact on government finances is positive. Incremental recurrent costs resulting
from the project are well within the capacity of government's projected higher education budget. The project
assists the government in revising its higher education pricing policy and in raising income from tuition fees to
earlier levels, thus reducing higher education's claims on the government budget. The 1995 Higher Education
Institutional Finance Survey demonstrated that student charges as a proportion of the recurrent budget had
been 32 percent in 1993, but had declined to 21 percent by 1995. Revisions in the pricing policy for higher
education are projected to bring cost-recovery back to the 1993 level by the end of the project.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound and draws on best practice higher educational reform from developing
countries (Argentina, China, Indonesia, Thailand) and industrialized countries (Australia, New Zealand, United
Kingdom). Project components and performance parameters were prepared on the basis of international
comparisons while taking into account regional performance. The project will allow international and regional
comparability to other systems and will provide the necessary qualitative foundation needed for the
international equivalence of Vietnam's higher education qualifications.
The majority of component #1 activities have been tested during preparation in pilot form (performance
surveys, graduate tracer surveys), and workshops during preparation have trained the core group of staff
needed to generalize activities of component #1 (university strategic planning, drafting of university
regulations and charters). In the case of component #2, initial drafts of the operating manual for the university
quality improvement grants have been prepared jointly with the government. These drafts incorporate
experience gained in similar Bank projects elsewhere and have taken advantage of lessons learnt with other
university improvement programs.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The central ministries and the MOET have demonstrated their ability to formulate and
adopt higher education reform policies during project preparation. Likewise, the ongoing consolidation of
legislation into a single education law, the preparation of administrative regulations that relate to higher
education, together with the practical experience gained in surveys and policy analysis, all demonstrate the
ability of the central executing agencies. Universities have prepared sub-project proposals and are ready to
submit applications for quality improvement grants. Weaknesses in preparing grant applications and
subsequent purchasing will be addressed through two advisory services provided by PCUIMOET.
Project management: The MOET has some experience in managing large donor funded development projects
and, during preparation, the MOET's Project Preparation Unit Secretariat (PPUS) has acquired skill in the
coordination and management of planning, budgeting and administering funds for capacity building and
monitoring activities. The PPUS will be converted into the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and reinforced
with additional training and technical assistance.
5. Social:
The project supports the revision of the government's pricing policy in higher education. It assists the
government in its move to raise the tuition fees for the majority of higher education undergraduate students
(who tend to come from middle and upper income brackets) and post-graduate students, while targeting merit
scholarships, fee exemptions and financial assistance towards poor students and those from qualified but
disadvantaged groups. The financial assessment presented in Annex 5 indicates that the project contributes to
reducing the burden of higher education operations on the state budget and creates the possibility of a
redistribution of public subsidies to lower levels of education.



Page 1 0
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ A   []B    [x] C
No environmental risks are foreseen. This is a category "C" project.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Higher Education Institutions        IS/CON               IS/CON          IS/CON
Academic Faculty             IS                   CON             COL
Intellectual leaders and academics        CON                  CON               IS
Ministry of Education and Training     IS/CON/COL            IS/CON/COL    IS/CON/COL
b. Other key stakeholders:
i H
Local government              IS                  COL             COL
Employers               IS                   IS
Other donors           IS/CON                  IS
Other - Central Agencies/Ministries    IS/CON/COL            IS/CON/COL    IS/CON/COL
IS Information Sharing: CON Consultation; COL Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(i) Institutional sustainability: The project contributes to the overall sustainability of higher education through
system and institution wide capacity building. Component #1 builds capacity in system-wide central functions
(governance, policy analysis and formulation, oversight, monitoring, quality control, planning and
management). Component #1, together with component #2, also builds capacity in the institutional functions
of university management, administration and planning. This project strategy will leave government with
expertise and procedures that will endure well beyond the life of the project.
(ii) Financial sustainability: Project funds are 10% of the state's total public expenditure on higher education
during the life of the project. Nevertheless, there is no trade-off between the allocation of public resources to
higher education through regular channels and through the quality improvement grants under the project. The
projected macro-economic growth indicates that both channels will grow in real terms throughout the life of
the project. Credit funds play an important role in providing the time needed to allow govermnent to channel
approximately 2% of public expenditures on higher education to universities through competitive quality
improvement grants. Annex 5 shows that government could maintain the quality improvement grants after the
closure of the credit. Thus, continuation of the quality improvement channel will be fully funded through the
project's net savings and the impact of increased cost recovery and institutional earnings from contracts and
other activities.



Page 1 1
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                  Wgu               ~     s   iiiainMasurie
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to
Objective"
(a) changes in the responsibility for  M    Government is reviewing responsibility for the oversight of
the management of the HE sub-sector;        the HE. Sub-sector. The project design and implementation
has been conceived as "transportable" and thus, should any
change in portfolio responsibilities occur, only minor
adjustment will be required;
(b) overall macro-economics           M     Medium risk beyond the scope of this project. This will be
instability disturbs public spending on     monitored through macro-economic dialogue with the
HE and growth in employment of              country;
graduates;
(c) rapid growth in private sector and  M   Under the project, Govt. will analyze conditions of service of
industry leads to a loss of better          university staff and the ability of universities to supplement
university staff to an expanding            academic staff salaries from contract earnings and off-budget
private sector;                             revenues with a view to improving staff remuneration;
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
Outputs"
(d) poor support from academic        N    University managers are directly involved in the current goal
community for HE reform goals;              setting exercise that is part of project preparation;
(e) higher levels of government and   M    This is being addressed through high-level policy dialogue
the MOET block growth in university         with government and party organs. In addition, the project
level autonomy;                             will give the universities the operational tools and
administrative skills necessary to take advantage of greater
institutional autonomy;
(f) university managers make poor use    N    University managers are already involved in the design of
of capacity building.                       capacity building programs and the selection of staff for
training programs;
(g) delays in reviewing/selecting     M    Early submission and review of university grant
eligible grant proposals and                Applications (prior to project approval)
consolidating procurement
(h) lack of transparency, or          M     Project documentation will specify criteria and the Bank will
interference, in allocating university      monitor the application of these criteria in the award of
grants to qualifying institutions;          university grants through regular detailed supervision;
(i) poor monitoring and accountability    N    Project will include regular reporting on the use of awards
of grant use;                               and audit of the award funds;
(j) award criteria are not updated to  N    Project mid-term review will assess the goals of the HE
reflect the goals of HE consolidation/      reform and will revise the grant award criteria in the light of
merger and quality improvement.             progress towards these goals. Award criteria also change as
universities return for additional grants.
Overall Risk Rating                   M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
Limited controversial aspect.



Page 12
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
Prior to effectiveness, the government will confirm that for the structures and staffing needed for
implementation, it has issued invitations to recruit key external technical assistance to support the PCU. Key
external assistance posts include: (i) Senior advisor in project management and implementation; (ii) Senior
Finance Advisor; and (iii) Procurement Advisor.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Prior to negotiations, the government confirmed that for:
(a) the structures and staffing needed for implementation, it has created -- and adequately staffed -- the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and its procurement advisory service. Key full-time national positions include the
Manager of the Project Coordination Unit, the Finance Officer, and the Procurement/Purchasing Officer;
(b) the program of quality improvement grants to higher education institutions, it has furnished the finalized
operational manual for the award and administration of university Quality Improvement Grants (QIGs) in a
form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
(c) national counterpart funds: it has made provision for adequate counterpart financing and that these funds
are readily available for the initial start-up of the project.
During negotiations, the government confirmed that for:
(i) Monitoring & reporting on project implementation and impact:
*  it will provide the Association with regular quarterly progress reports (by January 31, April 30, July 31
and October 31 each year) documenting implementation progress of all aspects of the project and listing
problems and issues requiring resolutions as soon as these become apparent.
-  it will furnish to the Association by October 31 each year an annual work program for implementation for
the next twelve month period, together with an annual training program.
*  it will hold, jointly with the Association, reviews of implementation of the project by December 30 each
year, commencing in December 1999 and will also hold a mid-term review of project implementation on
or before December 1, 2001.
*  it will monitor the agreed list of key performance indicators that relate to project objectives and will
include a report on these indicators as part of the regular progress reports shared with the Association.
*  it will prepare and submit to the Association an Implementation Completion Report within six months of
the closing date.
(ii) Monitoring & reporting on university performance:
* it will carry out annual monitoring of the performance of all universities and higher education institutions
through an annual survey, and that the results from this annual survey will be disseminated to all higher
education institutions and will be shared with the Association as part of the regular reporting on the project
by July 31 of each year.
(iii) The program of quality improvement grants to higher education institutions:
*  it will include inside the structure charged with quality assurance assessments and accreditation of the
higher education institutions a unit responsible for assessing the eligibility and conformity of, ranking the
applications for, and making recommendation on the award of Quality Improvement Grants to universities
and higher education institutions.
*  activities related to the program of Quality Improvement Grants for universities will be carried out in
accordance with policies and operation guidelines, procedures, criteria and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, as laid down in the QIG operational manual.
*  it will ensure that technical audits of the QIG program are undertaken by an independent body, starting on
or before November 30, 1999 in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner acceptable to the
Association, to review activities funded by QIGs on a sample basis, and that copies of the technical audit
would be furnished to the Association for comment as part of the annual reports on project implementation
not later than January 31 of each year.



Page 13
* by January 31 each year, it will provide IDA with a comprehensive report on QIG operations
(applications, rankings, recommendations for awards, actual awards, and implementation of previous
awards).
(iv) Project financing and accounting:
* Counterpart funding: that: a). both government and the universities will provide the required counterpart
funds in a timely and cost-effective manner; b). it will finance 100% of the incremental salaries of all
national staff needed to work on and carry out the project activities; and c. the universities will finance the
incremental staff salaries needed to operate the university based planning units and the career advisory
services located in each of the higher education institutions.
* Accounts and auditing: that: a) it will keep separate project accounts, including details of the use of all
Quality Improvement Grants awarded to universities, will ensure that an annual audit is made of the
project expenditures and accounts, the project special account and SOEs by independent external auditors;
and b) Government will agree that it will report on the project finances and provide the Association with
the external auditors opinion within six months of the end of each government fiscal year.
(v) HE Policy development:
* it will develop a national policy for the higher education sub-sector, with provisions on: (i) pricing policy
in HE; (ii) changes in institutional autonomy and accountability; and (iii) quality assurance and
performance monitoring of all higher education institutions; at the same time as the report required for the
mid-term review, give the Association, for its review and comment, such a higher education policy
document; and adopt such a policy according to a timetable acceptable to IDA.
As a condition of disbursement of grants (category 2, a, b, and c), the government will confirm that it has
appointed the Manager of the Proposal Assessment Unit charged with administering the processing of QIG
applications.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Christopher Shaw
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Steer



Annex 1
0        Project Design Summary
Vietnam: Higher Education Project
Narrative Summary                    Key Performanc Indiators                Mnitoring and Supervision              Critical Assumptions *ad Risks
CAS Objedive                                                                                                               (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
Assist Vietnam's steady transition to a market    * increased number of consolidated HEls;   * CAS reports;                * improvements in the relevance, quality
economy and alleviate poverty through human    * pre-university education's share of  * pmgress reports on Vietnam's transition to a  and efficiency of higher education (HE)
resoumre development                        education budget increases.           market economy;                            will assist and accelerate Vietnam's
* analysis of national and provincial budgets.  transition to a market economy as well
as contribute to poverty alleviation.
Project Development Objectives                                                                                             (Development Objectives to CAS Obj)
(a) Increase coherence, flexibility and   a 100% ofparticpain HEls use new   *     analyze results of component #1 activities and   * labor market has capacity to absorb
responsiveness of higher education to the   inforn"tion coilected to guide  eml   reports on higher education policy and     increasing numbers of graduates;
changing demands of society and the market  decision nmking & revisions in stategic   development plans, education law, tuition  * graduates gain employment in private
economy;                                    plans and aibriada y project end;     pricing levels, university strategic plans;  sector,
* 100I  of participating IlEls with  * analyze data in graduate tracer survey and  * private sector grows at same pace as
increased institutional autonomy and  evaluate higher education's link to the labor  graduates in order to ensure employment
accountability by project end;        market;                                    opportunities;
* at least 85% of HE graduatesgain    * analyze information in universities' reports on   * graduates receive good living wages
cntent witihin 12 nmnths of      the employment outcomes of their graduates.
graduaion date eomlife aiproject.
(b) Improve effiiency and resource utilization in  . average size of HEIs increase by at lest  * analyze financial operations data from survey    * efficiency gains are used productively
higher education;                           I% emr ov fe of project,              of university operations;                   within the education sector, i.e., either
a increase in utilization of infrastructure  * supervise and monitor the rationalization and  in other levels of education, or for
and equipment by project end;         consolidation of HEls;                      qualitative and/or quantitative
* at least 79% of annual 'social      * WB Poverty reports.                        improvements in higher education.
scholarships' go to studentsfrom lowest
three incwne gairiles by projec end.
Note: Key perfonnance indicators for development objectives are underlined.                                                                          (Continued)



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring and Supervision              Critical Assumptions and Risks
(c) Improve the quality of curriculum, teaching,   * 35% of leaching staff in participatng  * evaluate and monitor academic perfonnance of  * graduates gain employment, and
learning and research in higher education.   HEls with postgraduate qualificafions by   students and staff;                      retention rates within the country is high
project end;                          * track the performance of students continuing  (no brain-drain).
* increase in number of graduates enrolled  on to postgraduate programs and the
in local and foreign postgraduate      workforce;
programs by project end;             * supervise the efficient use of materials,
* reduction in student repefition & dropout   equipment and infrastructure;
rates, and increase in graduation rates    * analyze data on internal efficiency of HEls, and
by project end                         monitor improvements.
Project Outputs                                                                                                                (Outputs to Development Objectives)
(a) System level reforms in educational quality   * 85% of participating HEls have medium    * analysis of HEls strategic plans;  * stability of portfolio management within
and relevance are initiated and a high level of  teTm institutional strategic plans by mid-   * project monitoring & progress reports on  the HE sub-sector;
human resource capacity is built throughout HE:    term review, and 100% by end of project;   overall management, finance and structure of   * overall macro-economic stability with
*   management actions focus on the         . increase in the share of off-budget    higher education system;                    stable public spending for HE. and
improvement of HE quality and distribution    financing of HEls' costs by project end;   * working reports from project sub-components    growth in employment opportunities for
of the public subsidy to the HE system;  * 100% of participating HEls utilize a  and analysis of the annual survey of HEls   university graduates.
*   tuition fees and contract earnings of HE  computerized administrative system by  operations;
system are increased and their collection is    project end;                   * draft report on higher education policy;
improved;                              * 100% of participating HEIs will prepare,   * draft and final report on education law;
*   academic community is empowered and      one year after mid-term review, charters   * financial operations and university
institutional autonomy develops.         and regulations that include institutional  performance report.
autonomy and accountability according to
models prepared by Government.
(b) Institutional level reforms in quality&   * at least 30% of participating HEls are  * monitoring & progress reports on staff  * university staff remain in the academic
efficiency of teaching, learning, administration  successful in obtaining Quality    development and training programs;          profession and are not attracted away to
and service take place in successful universities:    Improvement Grants (QlGs) under sub-    * course catalogues & curriculum reports;  the private sector or industry -- there is
*   increases in universities' demand for funds    fund A by project end;          * audit reports on the use of completed university   staffing stability within HE. institutions.
to undertake quality enhancements and  * at least 20% of participating HEls are  grant awards.
institutional improvements;              successful in obtaining QlGs under sub-
*   clear incentives given to other universities  fund B by project end;
to emulate reforming institutions;     * 100%/ of participating HEIs
*   improved qualifications of university staff;    update/innovate curricula, and conduct
*   improved student performance.            regular review of curricula and course
materials by project end.
(Continued)



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators                   Monitoring and Supervision                Critical Assumptions and Risks
(a) Component #1 : changes are made in higher    * Establishment by mid-1998, under Vice    * evaluate commitment to establish HE      (Components to outputs)
education system-level planning & management,    Minister of MOET responsible for HE, of    coordinating group and specific task forces;  * the academic community agrees with
and in institutional-level administration with  a group that coordinates the development  * evaluate drafting process of HE statement on  and supports the HE reform goals;
*   detailed statements of system and           of goals, strategies and plans for HE;    goals, strategies and plans, and the education    * higher levels of government and the
institutional-level quality goals;        * using information collected from annual   law;                                           MOET do not block growth in university
*   creation of performance and quality         surveys and other project activities, a  * evaluate progress of project working groups,  level autonomy;
monitoring mechanisms;                     draft statement of goals, strategies and   task forces and survey teams;                * major additional funds for universities
*   revision of institutional legislation;      plans for HE is submitted to IDA for    * evaluate progress of pilot graduate tracer     are unavailable.
*   revision of HE pricing policy & allocation  discussion by mid-term review;            survey;
of public finance to HE;                  * 100% of participating HEls will have    * supervise progress in establishing model
*   capacity building, training, management     adopted institutional charters & issued   charters and regulations for HEls;
tools and equipment.                       core regulations by end of project;      * supervise progress in establishing HEls' career
and universities adopt standardized computerized  * computerized administrative systems and  advisory services.
administrative systems.                         relevant software in place, and training  * evaluate quality & relevance of computerized
begun in all participating HEls by mid-   administrative systems software and training
term review.                              programs
(b) Component #2: selected universities make  * at least 20 HEls submit QIG proposals by   * monitor the implementation of sub-projects;  * university managers make good use of
investments in quality and teaching/learning    mid-term review.                        * monitor the application of and need for        capacity building.
improvement thus implementing the HE reforms:                                             revision of eligibility and assessment criteria    * mechanisms for selecting eligible
*   a system of selective institution-specific                                            for the award of QlGs.                         university grant applications occur
improvement grants is put in place;                                                                                                  without delays;
*   advisory services for universities on the                                                                                           * university grants are allocated to
preparation of sub-project proposals are                                                                                             qualifying institutions, without
made available;                                                                                                                      interference, based on the declared
*   grants are used for action such as staff                                                                                             criteria;
training, pedagogical and learning inputs,                                                                                         * there is tight monitoring and
books, equipment, development of common                                                                                              accountability of the use of the grants;
services (libraries, documentation and                                                                                             * award criteria are defined and updated
computing centers).                                                                                                                  such that they reflect the goals of HE
consolidation/merger and quality
improvement.
(c) Component #3: Project Management and      * PCU fully staffed by national specialists    * quarterly project reports submitted by the PCU.  * Government appoints qualified and
Coordination provides all oversight, management    and external advisors.                * regular WB supervision reports.               experienced national staff and recruits
and advisory services needed to efficiently   * Project is rated as satisfactory by IDA and                                              high-level external advisors.
implement the project.                          client throughout its implementation life.                                             * comprehensive project launch workshop
held at start-up and regular supervision
of the project by the WB.
Note: QIG = quality improvement grant.



Annex 2
Higher Education Project
Project Description
The Higher Education Project has three components: first, component #1 supporting system and institutional-level
capacity building, institutional development and computerization; second, component #2 providing targeted
investments for selected universities; and third, component #3 ensuring essential support for project coordination,
management and implementation.
Project Component 1 - US21.8 million (total cost of component)
Capacity Building and Institutional Development. This component is split into three sub-components:
(i) system-level planning, coordination and monitoring; (ii) institution-level planning improvements; and
(iii) computerized development of university administration.
Sub-component (i): System-level planning, coordination and monitoring (sub-component cost US$2.5
million). System-level planning, coordination and monitoring are targeted on the central agencies responsible for
higher education. They support the creation of an enabling regulatory environment and provide the necessary
tools for the central agencies to carry out their goal-setting, monitoring, guidance and quality control functions.
Project activities in this component will provide the necessary expertise, training and tools for an overall increase
in managerial efficiency of government central agencies responsible for higher education. This sub-component
covers five areas:
(a) Higher education policy development: To ensure coherence and focus for the ongoing reform of higher
education, and to provide the goal stability and the policy framework needed to ensure good linkage between
all project activities, this sub-component will support continuing development of the government's policy on
higher education. Government has prepared a draft statement on Higher Education which describes the
general direction of reform in higher education and the policy changes that have been adopted to date.
However, there are some areas such as pricing policy, institutional autonomy and accountability, and quality
assessment and monitoring, where government has indicated a general direction but where additional work is
needed.
The project supports continued policy analysis and formulation throughout implementation. Project funds
are available for: (i) visiting academics; (ii) special studies such as an analysis of student diversity and
student living expenses; (iii) additional analysis of the annual survey of higher education performance;
(iv) high-level policy study tours to examine HE policy in two countries; (v) consultation and discussion with
universities; and (vi) publication and dissemination of the revised HE policy statement.
These activities will-be coordinated by the deputy minister for higher education in collaboration with the
Inter-Ministerial Committee (precursor of the Higher Education sub-committee of the planned National
Education Council) with the support of MOET's departments of Planning and Finance, and Higher
Education and National Institute of educational Development (NIED). Coordination of activities will be
through office of MOET's Deputy Minister responsible for higher education with logistical support from the
PCU.
(b) Performance monitoring of HE: To provide feedback to the bodies responsible for the governance and
oversight of higher education, this sub-component will put into place regular annual monitoring of the
university system (two surveys have already taken place in 1995 and 1997 with support from PHRD funds).
The objective of the monitoring mechanism is to measure the financial operations of all higher education
institutions, and to measure and monitor academic and administrative performance indicators for these
institutions. Results will inform both the central authorities responsible for the oversight and quality
assurance of the higher education system and individual institutions so that the latter may see their



Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
performance relative to other institutions. The scope of the annual national survey is comprehensive in its
coverage of universities and other higher education institutions and will include all teacher training colleges.
The coverage of topics will be selective with a series of questions collecting core information each year and
the rotation in-and-out of the survey of special topics that would be monitored on a longer time frame. The
core monitoring will measure and report each year on the following areas of university activities: income;
expenditure; enrollments; student progression; instructional contact hours; and staff. Special topics might
include such themes as equipment and facilities, or student living expenditures.
The project supports the refinement of the survey design, its administration in all HE institutions, analysis,
the production of an annual report and comparative institutional performance indicators, and discussion by
and dissemination to all universities. Project funds are available for: (i) technical workshops;
(ii) consultants; (iii) data collection; (iv) equipment; and (v) information dissemination.
The annual monitoring of the higher education system and all HE. institutions will be commissioned by the
HE Inter-ministerial Committee assisted by the Planning and Finance Department of the MOET.
(c) Quality assurance and accreditation: Quality assurance in higher education is necessary for ensuring
adequate graduate supply to meet complex social and economic demands and for the international reputation
and integration of the Vietnamese system in knowledge generation and transmission. Rapid quantitative
expansion in the context of the history of higher education in Vietnam and current resource constraints gives
rise to questions regarding quality. A Higher Education Quality Assessment Center will be established to
undertake quality audits and provide objective assessments of system and institutional quality of
performance. The assessment center will have a professional staff and in conducting quality audits and
appraising institutional performance, the assessment center may establish peer review teams comprising
persons drawn from academia and business on the basis of their expertise in the fields under review.
* In making its quality assessments the national assessment center will have access to:
* the national set of key performance indicators maintained by MOET;
* the strategic plans, including the Performance Improvement Plans of institutions;
* the annual reports of institutions, including their reports on progress towards planned achievements;
* documentation of internal quality management procedures of institutions;
* management, staff and students of the institution for interview and observation as required;
* and -with the consent of the institutional management- the facilities, equipment, learning materials,
student assessment instruments of the institution and student texts prepared for assessment purposes.
Project funds are available for: (i) equipment; (ii) essential study tours and intensive in-country training
workshops; (iii) consultants; (iv) institutional assessment visits; and (v) publication of quality assessment
criteria and operational manuals.
The quality assurance and accreditation functions will be done by the HE Quality Assessment Center, assisted
by the Higher Education Department of MOET.
(d) Funding formula and pricing policy: Government has started to revise its pricing policy and wishes to
revise the method by which it allocates public funds to higher education. The project will support the
creation and work of an ad hoc inter-ministerial working party led by the Administrative Department of the
Ministry of Finance to examine pricing policy and reform of the funding/allocation mechanism. Special
studies to support revisions in pricing policy and the funding formula would be conducted on: (i) analysis of
the present fee structure; (ii) student income and expenditure on higher education; (iii) equity and diversity in
student population; (iv) analysis of the effects of current allocation mechanisms; and (v) simulation of
alternative incentive mechanisms. The above work on funding allocation mechanisms and on pricing policy
revisions will be incorporated into the continuing development of the higher education policy statement. The
latter will be discussed with the Bank at the mid-term review.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
Project funds are available for: (i) technical assistance and consultants; (ii) data analysis; and (iii) workshops
and training sessions.
The work on the revision of the funding formula and pricing policy will be led by the Ministry of Finance
and assisted by the Planning and Finance Department of the MOET.
(e) University Regulations and Charters: The university restructuring process is characterized by a shift
towards greater institutional autonomy with a corresponding increase in responsibility and accountability at
the institutional level. This generates a need for universities to adopt charters and develop clear institutional
regulations. This activity supports the following: (i) high-level support; (ii) reinforcement of the legal
drafting capacity of MOET; and (iii) preparation of university regulations and charters.
High Level Support: To provide leadership and focus for the preparation of regulations and charters required
for the university reform, a regional study tour for a policy support group of ministerial/vice ministerial level
will examine the role of clear regulations at both the national and institutional level in the effective
management of higher education. The study tour will involve up to 6 participants over 10 days. Legal
Drafting Capacity: The project will enhance MOET's capacity to develop and draft a clear and coherent set
of regulations to underpin restructuring and reform in higher education. MOET's existing legal unit will be
strengthened with three officers each with specialist drafting skills and who, with departmental officers, will
be responsible for drafting regulations under the new education law. The strengthening of the legal unit will
take place through intensive in-country training for policy and drafting personnel in two 6 week courses
conducted with the assistance of external advisors. Workshops will focus on assisting with the preparation
of regulations required under the Law. Course participants will also engage in a 10-12 day external study
tour to consider regional policy development and drafting models with an education emphasis. The project
will also provide 5 international advisor visits to assist the drafting team on specific sets of regulations.
University Regulations and Charters: Model charters and institutional regulations will form the basis on
which individual universities will each prepare their own set of internal regulations. The project will assist
with the establishment of a university charters unit within MOET's existing legal unit. This unit of three
officers will prepare model charters and regulations and will assist universities in customizing and
implementing charters and regulations that meet their specific institutional needs. The project will provide
intensive in-country training for the charters unit and university personnel in two 6-week courses conducted
with the assistance of external advisors. Course participants will engage in a 10-12 day study tour to
consider regional experience in the development, implementation and management of charter and regulation
obligations at the institutional level. The charters unit will conduct training workshops for individual
institutions and regional workshops will be supported by external advisors.
Project funds are available for: (i) study tours; (ii) training workshops and seminars; and (iii) technical
assistance.
The drafting of regulations and charters will be conducted by the MOET's department of Legal Affairs
assisted by MOET's departments of Planning and Finance, and Higher Education.
Sub-component (ii): Institutional-level planning improvements (sub-component costs US$15.0 million).
Institution-level planning improvements are targeted to universities and other higher education institutions and
will raise the efficiency of the universities, strengthen institutional-level planning and the relevance of these plans
to the changing needs of society and the economy. Project activities in this sub-component will provide the
necessary expertise for improvements in planning, management of resources for quality, and improvements in
institutional-level administration through capacity-building, training, and improved feedback from the labor
market. This sub-component covers four areas:
(a) University Strategic Plans: The main responsibility for quality assurance and institutional performance
rests with the higher education institutions themselves. Institutions are expected to have internal quality
management procedures established, documented and promulgated. As an integral part of their strategic



Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
planning, and as a condition of access to public funds, institutions will prepare and revise annually a
performance improvement plan that sets measurable targets for efficiency and quality improvement.
Satisfactory progress on key performance indicators associated with institutional quality improvement will
allow institutions to compete for quality improvement grants under component #2.
Project funds are available for: (i) short-term workshops and their related equipment for training of key
stakeholders; (ii) consultants and advisors; and (iii) internal travel and related institutional visits.
The university improvement and strategic planning activities will be implemented by individual universities
assisted by the PCU working with a core team from the pilot group of universities and the Planning and
Finance Department of the MOET.
(b) University Planning Offices: Building on the strategic planning activities started during project
preparation, participating universities will each strengthen their planning offices. These offices will have
responsibility for the preparation of the initial benchmark measurement of university performance. Over
time, with the growing availability of additional information from institutional and system-wide surveys, the
university planning offices will move from simple benchmarking of performance, through an institutional
development plan, to an annual strategic planning exercise. The university development plan will consist of
several elements: (a) an institutional mission statement; (b) a simple improvement plan; (c) detailed
qualitative improvement activities and sub-projects for submission to the QIG process; (d) enrollment and
staffing projections; and (e) projections of financial operations (expenditures and revenues). It is expected
that not all participating universities will reach the stage of undertaking the annual strategic planning exercise
before the end of the project. Nevertheless, all participating universities will have moved beyond the initial
stage of benchmarking their performance, and the majority will have adopted regular improvement planning.
Planning offices will play a central role in coordinating the flow of information from other project related
activities (performance monitoring through the annual surveys of university academic performance and
financial operations; quality assessments, graduate tracers surveys. sub-project proposals and QIG
applications). Planning offices will also assist university departments in the preparation of sub-projects for
submission as QIG applications (component #2).
Project funds are available for: (i) equipment and furniture; (ii) incremental staffing costs; and (iii) training
and fellowships.
The implementation of activities related to the operation of university planning offices will be carried out by
the MOET/PCU working with the individual universities and assisted by the Planning and Finance Education
Department of the MOET.
(c) Graduate Tracer Surveys: In order to increase the linkage between the labor market and to provide each
university with adequate and timely feedback on its performance relative to the labor market, each
participating university will undertake the monitoring of the entry of its graduates into the labor market.
Using the longitudinal survey methodology prepared-and tested during project preparation, universities will
each year survey their recent graduates and will prepare a report showing the proportion of graduates entering
employment and the evolution of the distribution of such employment over time. It is expected that each
university will also make use of this data to instruct and inform choices on the revision/renewal of its course
offerings. In addition, individual university graduate tracer studies will be aggregated into a system-wide
national report to inform higher education managers on the responsiveness of the higher education system to
the changing demands of the economy.
Project funds are available for: (i) training and workshops; (ii) consultants and advisors; (iii) data collection
and analysis of costs; (iv) printing and dissemination costs.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
The university graduate tracer surveys will be implemented by the participating universities with assistance
from the MOET/PCU working with the a core group of university staff drawn from those universities that
participated in the pilot exercise. They will be assisted by the Planning and Finance Department of the
MOET.
(d) University Careers Advisory Services: Participating universities and higher education institutions will
create an institution based "careers advisory service" aimed at strengthening the linkage between teaching and
learning taking place in each university and the needs of the rapidly evolving labor market. A small careers
advisory service, staffed by two university employees, will be supported in each of sixty higher education
institutions. The careers advisory service will: (i) liaise with employers -- especially those employers in the
immediate locality; (ii) conduct job briefing seminars; (iii) run workshops on resume drafting and individual
job search techniques for final year students; and (iv) arrange and manage an annual two-day "job fair" on
campus.
Project funds are available for: (i) equipment; (ii) staff training; and (iii) limited operating funds.
The implementation of activities related to the university careers advisory services will be carried out by the
MOET/PCU working with the individual universities.
Sub-component (iii): Information technology (sub-component cost of US$4.3 million). This sub-component
supports development of information technology in participating universities and higher education institutions
with the provision to all participating institutions of software tools for university administration.
University Administration Software: This activity will supply software for university administration and
related training to increase the capacity and overall efficiency of the administration and management of sixty
universities. Basic software packages for university administration will be provided to participating
institutions for: (i) accounts and contract management; (ii) personnel records and payroll; (iii) student
applications/admissions, registrations, course/academic records; and (iv) student tuition fees/instructional
charges, and grants, awards and loans. The project will also provide basic training in the use of these
packages to university administrative staff.
Project funds are available for: (i) software packages; (ii) consultant and advisory services; and (iii) training
and workshops.
The implementation of activities related to the university administrative software packages will be carried out
by the MOET/PCU working with the individual universities.
Project Component 2 - US$79.1 million (total cost of component)
This component consists of grants to support quality improvements in selected qualifying higher education
institutions and universities. Quality improvement grants will be awarded --on a competitive basis-- to support
selected improvement programs that have been proposed by higher education institutions. The selected
improvement programs will focus on teaching, learning, research and institutional administration. This
component has three parts: (a) the processing and assessment of all applications for QIG awards; (b) specialized
subject reviewers; and (c) the actual awards. The processing related to the award of such grants includes the
verification of institutional eligibility, the evaluation and ranking of grant applications, and advisory and oversight
costs. QlGs are available to support institutional sub-projects in the following areas:
*  academic staff development and training;
*  training in university administration and management;
*  institutional networking and computerization;
*   learning material for specific courses;



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
*  equipment purchase and renewal for selected courses; and
*  renewal, re-supply, and extension of common facilities such as institutional libraries, and documentation
and computer centers.
(a) Grant Proposal Assessment: QIG applications are processed by the Proposal Assessment Unit (PAU) set
up to undertake the proposal assessment and award processing. The PAU comprises an Executive Director, a
full-time Secretariat, and five part-time academic advisers, who will be members, with the Executive Director,
of an "Academic Panel," which will be assisted by part-time specialist academic reviewers, to advise on
technical/specialist aspects of sub-project proposals. The main task of the unit will be to undertake the first
two stages in the application assessment process: (a) the assessment of institutional eligibility; and
(b) evaluation, grading and ranking of the sub-project proposals. The PAU will submit recommendations to
the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) which is responsible for award decisions. To ensure transparency in
the application assessment process and to promote the confidence of the universities and higher education
institutions in the impartiality of the assessment procedures, the PAU will carry out the evaluation of
proposals through the Academic Panel, consisting of the Executive Director and five independent academic
members, selected on the basis of their experience of university teaching, research and management, and will
carry out regular information dissemination activities. Information activities include publication of the
membership of the Academic Panel, the standard application format, the institutional eligibility criteria, the
award processing criteria, the list of all QIG applications received and the list of awards made together with
their specific sub-projects.
Project funds will support the creation and operation of the PAU. Funds are available for: (i) the creation of
the unit (equipment, computers, software, furniture); (ii) consultant services necessary to carry out assessment
of proposals; (iii) printing and related dissemination costs for the information services; and (iv) limited
operating costs.
Implementation of this activity of the sub-component will be the responsibility of the PAU assisted by the
PCU. The PAU will carry out the proposal assessments and submit the eligible, graded and ranked sub-
project grant applications to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for decision.
(b) Specialized Subject Review: To ensure that full-time staff of the PAU have access to the necessary
technical and academic skills in all subject areas and specializations, the project supports short-term
assistance from academics to assist in the assessment of proposals. The proposal assessment unit will thus be
able to call on specialist knowledge and expertise to contribute to assessments of the feasibility, priority and
utility of individual QIG applications.
Project funds are available for: (i) consultant services; and (ii) costs associated with visits to applicant
institutions.
This activity will be implemented by the PAU assisted by the PCU.
(c) Quality Improvement Awards are made through a three-stage process: first, there is an assessment of
institutional eligibility; second, institutional sub-project proposals are evaluated and ranked in order of
priority; and third, the oversight body/Inter-Ministerial Committee examines the eligible ranked sub-projects
and makes the decision whether or not to award a QIG. Applications follow a standardized format and are
assessed against agreed criteria. Sub-projects are not wholly funded by QIGs and each university submitting
a sub-project proposal and grant application must demonstrate that it will cover at least five percent of the
sub-project costs. Institutional eligibility criteria and sub-project grading and selection criteria increase in
stringency with each subsequent application from a given higher education institution.
Checking the eligibility of institutions submitting proposals and evaluation, grading and ranking of proposals
will be the responsibility of a Proposal Assessment Unit (PAU) comprising a small Secretariat and an
independent academic panel, assisted by specialist academic/technical reviewers.    -



Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
Grants are made from one of three separate sub-funds ("A", "B" and "C"). The initial grant awarded to a
university will come from sub-fund "A" and will have a maximum value of US$0.5 million. The second
grant awarded to a university will come from sub-fund "B" and will have a maximum value of US$0.75
million. The third and all subsequent awards to a university will come from sub-fund "C" and are not subject
to restrictions on the maximum amount, although the cumulative total of all grants awarded to any institution
will not exceed $800 per FTE student. Thus, to concentrate resources on the best proposals coming from
well-prepared institutions and avoid spreading QIG resources thinly across a large number of universities, the
Inter-Ministerial Committee will apply selectivity in making awards to competing applications. It is expected
that only three-quarters of the applications for type "A" awards, only about two-thirds of applications for type
"B" awards, and only one-half of applications for type "C" awards, will be successful. As a result, of the
more than one hundred higher education institutions, less than ten would receive three or more QIGs.
Given the competitive and flexible process used to award QIGs, the distribution of specific expenditure
categories is not predetermined. Nevertheless, based on similar higher education projects supported by the
Bank in other countries, simulations indicate that approximately forty-five percent of expenditures will be
made on goods (equipment and learning materials) and thirty percent on training. Project funds are available
for: (i) fellowships and training; (ii) visiting scholars; (iii) equipment; (iv) books, journals and learning
materials; (v) consumables and administrative costs associated with the introduction of managerial
improvements; and (vi) limited physical inputs aimed at the improvement of common facilities (libraries,
documentation and computer centers). No civil works are foreseen under the QIGs.
Implementation of a particular QIG will be the responsibility of the university or higher education institution
receiving the award. The PCU will provide procurement advisory services and will assist the university in the
implementation of the sub-project benefiting from the QIG.
Project Component 3 - US$2.8 million (total cost of component)
The third component provides the essential coordination, implementation, procurement, contract management and
accounting functions and related advisory services needed to implement the project. These functions will be
mainstreamed into MOET and will increase the implementation capacity of the ministry beyond the higher
education sub-sector. This component is split into three sub-components: (i) the project coordination unit;
(ii) procurement advisory services; and (iii) QIG application advisory services.
(a) Project Coordination Unit: To provide the necessary centralized functions needed to coordinate the
implementation of the project, the present Project Preparation Unit Secretariat will be expanded and
converted into a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will be the World Bank's primary point of
contact with government for this project. The unit will consist of a central front management office, a project
administration and support office, a training and visits office, a finance office and a procurement office. The
PCU will have three key full-time national staff (National Project Director, Finance Officer and Procurement
Officer) will be supported by three external advisors who will be full-time for the first two years of the
project, and part-time thereafter. Additional national personnel are required for the PCU to be able to fully
meet its obligations. The PCU will carry responsibility for all project accounts, for monitoring the agreed
performance indicators and for all reporting to government and the Bank on project implementation and
performance.
Project funds are available for: (i) consultants and advisors; (ii) equipment; (iii) training; (iv) limited
operating costs; and (v) in-country travel costs.
Project coordination functions will be carried out by MOET's special unit.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
(b) Procurement Advisory Services: A purchasing and procurement advisory service will be created in the
PCU. This service will have responsibility for administering all the procurement and purchasing under
component #1. In addition, this service will advise all universities awarded a QIG and will ensure that the
university carries out all purchasing and procurement under each QIG in accordance with agreed procedures.
Project funds are available for: (i) consultants and advisors; (ii) equipment; (iii) training; (iv) limited
operating costs; and (v) in-country travel costs.
The procurement advisory services will be carried out by the MOET/PCU.
(c) Application Advisory Services: Some universities have already prepared sub-projects and are ready to
move ahead with their grant applications. However, others have not yet started or may encounter minor
difficulty in preparing applications for QIG awards. This activity of the sub-component will allow
universities to call for advice on sub-project design and the preparation of QIG applications from other
institutions who have already been successful. The PCU will award advisory contracts to two universities,
who have received QIGs, to act as regional advisors to other universities in the preparation of individual QIG
applications.
Project funds are available for consultant advisory services.
The Grant Application Advisory Services will be provided under a contract to be managed by the
MOET/PCU.



Annex 3
Higher Education Project
Components Project Cost Summary*
%       % Total
(US$ million)           Foreign     Base
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange    Costs
A. Capacity Building and Information Technology
1. System-level
a. HE Policy Development                              0.1        0.1         0.2      50           0
b. Performance Monitoring of HEIs                     0.3        0.1         0.4      25           0
c. Quality Assurance & Accreditation                  0.4        0.2         0.6      33           1
d. Funding Formula & Pricing Policy                   0.3        0.1         0.4      25           0
e. University Regulations & Charters                  0.3        0.2         0.5      40           1
Subtotal System-level                                  1.4       0.7          2.1      33           2
2. Institution-level
a. University Strategic Plans                         0.3        0.2         0.5      40           1
b. University Planning Offices                        4.2        1.4         5.6      25           7
c. Graduate Tracer Surveys                            0.8        0.1         0.9      11           1
d. Careers Advisory Services                          4.1        1.4         5.5      25           7
Subtotal Institution-level                            9.4        3.1        12.5      25          15
3. Information Technology Development
a. University Administration Software Packages        1.2        2.3         3.5      66           4
Subtotal Capacity Building and Information Tech.       12.0        6.1         18.1      34         21
B. University Quality Improvement Awards
a. Proposal Assessment                                0.3        0.1         0.4      25           0
b. Specialized Subject Review                         0.0        0.0         0.0       0           0
c. Quality Improvement Awards                        15.9       47.5        63.4      75          75
Subtotal Univ. Quality Improvement Awards              16.2       47.6        60.4       75         76
C. Project Management & Coordination
1. Project Coordination unit                            0.9        0.9          1.8      50          2
2. Procurement Advisory Services                        0.1        0.3          0.4      75          0
3. Application Advisory Services                        0.1        0.0          0.1       0          0
Subtotal Project Management & Coordination              1.1        1.2          2.3      52          3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                               29.3       54.9        84.2      65         100
Physical Contingencies                                   1.8       5.4          7.2      75          9
Price Contingencies                                     6.4        5.9         12.3      48         15
TOTAL COSTS                                        37.5       66.2       103.7      64         123
*Note:    Totals may not add up because of rounding; amounts less than $50,000 do not show.
Note:    An estimated US$4 million in taxes/duties would be levied on sub-projects. These taxes will be financed
by the universities counterpart contribution to their quality improvement grants.



Annex 4
Higher Education Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Background
1.     Estimates based on the 1996 Higher Education Graduate Tracer Study (HEGTS) and the 1992-93
Vietnam Living Standards Survey indicate that: (i) the overall private and social rates of return to higher
education in Vietnam are 22 percent and 15 percent; (ii) the proportion of recent university graduates working in
the private sector of the economy increased from 5 percent in 1990 to 9 percent in 1993; and (iii) the initial
earnings of graduates increased in real terms at an annual average rate of 5.8 percent between 1990 and 1993.
These are evidence of Vietnam's progress in making the transition from a centrally planned to a functioning
market-oriented economy. The estimated rates of return suggest that university education is both an attractive
private and acceptable social investment in Vietnam today. To justify, however, the specific higher education
investments supported under the proposed operation, an analysis of the rate of return to this project is estimated
here. It will be considered, along with other arguments, by Government and the World Bank to reach a decision
on whether to proceed with this operation.
Methodology
2.     Two quantifiable benefits of this project are identified: (i) cost savings at the institutional level arising
from improvements in university administration and economies of scale reflecting the elimination of undersized
universities, and (ii) an increase in the incremental earnings of university graduates as a result of more efficient
learning and the introduction of modernized curricula more relevant to the emerging market economy.
Although cost-savings arising mainly from economies of scale are calculated as a benefits stream, it is important
to emphasize that the rate of return calculated in this analysis is driven primarily by the second of the two benefit
streams, the increased earnings of university graduates.
3.     Unquantified benefits. Certain sub-components of the project contribute to general improvements in
the efficiency and quality of higher education in Vietnam. These benefits will be realized not just in those
universities eligible for specific investments under the project and by the graduates of these universities (see
PAD Annex 2) but, more broadly, in the higher education system and in society as a whole. Some of the
system-wide improvements introduced under the project are prerequisites for realizing the quantified benefits
(i and ii above) incorporated explicitly into the economic analysis. Other benefits of the project are more
diffused, not just in terms of the institutions and graduates who will benefit, but also in terms of the time frame
during which the benefits will accrue. These are external benefits and not possible to measure accurately using
current estimation methods. Examples include: (i) improved goal stability and coherence of the higher
education system as a whole owing to a coherent national higher education policy, improved administration,
more thorough data collection and targeted policy reforms; (ii) greaterflexibility and increased responsiveness
of the higher education system to the changing needs of the economy owing to quality improvements in teaching
and research; (iii) pedagogical improvements (better teaching, learning and research) that will filter gradually
out into other parts of the higher education system and down into pre-tertiary education; (iv) a reallocation of
resources to other levels of education, especially basic education, made possible by efficiency gains achieved in
higher education; and (v) the creation of knowledge workers who will contribute to technological innovation and
adaptation, to the preservation and enhancement of Vietnam's cultural heritage, and to the better management of
industry and government in the future. Since these benefits cannot be quantified, there is no way to include
them in the cost-benefit analysis presented here. To the extent that it is possible to apportion particular project
costs that contribute to such external benefits, these should be excluded as well from the analysis. The
allocation of project costs for the purposes of the economic analysis presented here is shown in Table 1.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
Table 1: Allocation of Project Costs (US$ million)
Incremental Netr
Total Cost    Cost Savings    Eaitrhni   |_N_ l
A. COMP 1: CAPACITY BUILDING                       21.8            8.5           5.1          8.2
1. System-level Planning, Coord & Monitor.        2.5            0.5           0.7          1.3
a. HE policy development                         0.3                                      0.3
b. Performance monitoring of HEIs                0.5            0.5
c. Quality assurance & accreditation             0.7                          0.7
d. Funding fornula & pricing policy              0.5                                      0.5
e. University regulations & charters             0.5                                      0.5
2. Institutional-level Planning                   15.0            3.7           4.4          6.9
a. University planning offices                   6.7            3.1                        3.6
b. University strategic plans                    0.6            0.6
c. Graduate tracer surveys                        1.1                         1.1
d. Careers advisory service offices              6.6                          3.3          3.3
3. Information Technology Development              4.3            4.3
a. University admin. Software packages           4.3            4.3
B. COMP. 2: UNIVERSITY GRANTS                      79.1                         68.7         10.4
a. Proposal assessment                           0.3                                       0.3
b. Specialized subject review                    0.1                                       0.1
c. Quality improvement awards                   78.7                         68.7         10.0
C. COMP. 3: PROJECT COORDINATION                   2.8            0.8           2.0
a. Project coordination unit                     2.2            0.3           1.9
b. Application advisory services                 0.1                          0.1
c. Procurement advisory services                 0.5            0.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     103.7            9.3          75.8         18.6
First Benefit Stream -- Efficiency Gains/Cost Savings
4.     Results from the 1995 Higher Education Institutional Finance Survey (HEIFS) support the economies-
of-scale hypothesis, demonstrating a sharp fall-off in the unit cost per student-year until enrollment reaches
1,000-1,500 full-time equivalent (FTE) students; beyond 1,500 students, unit costs may continue to decline, but
at a much slower rate. A significant proportion of component #1 funds and part of component #2 funds will be
used for capacity building, the introduction of new management tools and putting in place a stronger regulatory
framework at both system and institutional levels. These investments can be expected to improve efficiency
within institutions. For example, the sub-components that support university strategic planning and
administration software packages will provide institutions with tools to increase efficiency in planning,
management and resource allocation. The increase in both the autonomy and accountability of institutions,
coupled with a decline in administrative costs, will enable institutions to prepare and implement their own
strategic plans, increase student enrollments, enhance program coherence, raise efficiency and improve quality
of university education.
5.     Assumptions Made and Calculations Used in Cost-Savings Analysis. The key assumptions here are
as follows:
* the project will induce institutions that now enroll fewer than 2,000 FTE students to increase their enrollments
over the life of the project, by gradually admitting more students in successive years and/or by means of
institutional mergers; and
* institutions that increase their enrollments over time will, in fact, realize the cost savings that were observed in
the cross-section of institutions surveyed in HEIFS.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
6.     The cost-savings benefit stream is calculated by taking the difference in estimated unit costs with and
without the project and multiplying this by student enrollments in the institutions covered under the project.
Benefits will be assessed for 30 years, to the year 2028. Assumptions used in calculating the benefit stream
include the following:
* FTE higher education enrollments will increase at an average annual growth rate of 8.4 percent during the first
three years of the project. This assumption reflects Government's stated objective that enrollments will go up
by 50 percent between 1995 and 2000 (1996 December Central Committee Resolution). If Government's
targets are met, Vietnam's tertiary enrollment ratio will have risen from a level in 1995 that was roughly
comparable to the average level achieved by eight High Performing Asian Economies (HPAEs) several decades
ago, when their GDP per capita levels were at the level of Vietnam's GDP per capita today, to a level in 2000
that is about 39 percent higher than the HPAEs historically (World Bank 1966); and
* thereafter, i.e., from the year 2000 onward, Vietnam's growth of university enrollments will parallel the
historical growth of enrollments in the HPAEs (increasing at the same rate so as to maintain a tertiary
enrollment ratio that is 39 percent higher than the HPAEs' historical ratio).
7.     The cost stream is calculated by apportioning costs as described in Table 1 above, i.e., US$8.5 million
of component #1 costs are apportioned to the institutional cost-savings benefits. The remainder of component
#1 costs is split into two parts, $5.1 million allocated to the incremental earnings benefits, and US$8.2 million
unallocated, since this portion (i.e., policy development, performance monitoring, funding formula, and
university regulations and charters) is assumed to build capacity at the system level and to benefit society
broadly. US$0.8 million of component #3 costs are apportioned to the institutional cost-savings benefits. As
Table I indicates, the remainder of components #2 and #3 costs are either apportioned to the incremental
earnings benefits or are unallocated.
Second benefit stream -- Incremental Earnings
8.     The 1996 HEGTS suggests that there are significant differences in Vietnam today between the earnings
of graduates working in the private sector who possess skills particularly relevant to the modem market
economy and the earnings of others in the private sector who lack such skills (Sakellariou 1996). The attributes
measured in the survey and shown in the analysis of the HEGTS data to elicit a high market premium are
English language proficiency and basic computer skills. These skills are used here as proxies for the increased
relevance and the modernized curricula expected as outputs of the proposed lending operation.
9.     Component #2 of the project and portions of components #1 and #3 are assumed to contribute to
increasing graduate productivity by means of quality improvement reforms at the level of the higher education
institutions. Under component #1, for example, the financial and performance surveys, the graduate tracer
surveys and the career advisory services should improve the quality and relevance of university education, and
the quality improvement grants provided to institutions under component #2 will, of course, have these benefits
as their principal and explicit objectives.
10.   In 1996, the average earnings of graduates who possessed the identified language and computer skills
were VND 1,264,000 per month, VND 479,000 higher than the earnings of those who did not. Rather than
attributing the entire differential to the project, a more conservative assumption is used: It is assumed here that
only VND 196,000 per month, or 25 percent of the observed differential, will in fact be realized as a result of the
improved quality and relevance of university education. Sensitivity analysis is then conducted, and this
confirms that the project rate of return is quite sensitive to this assumption.
11.   It is further assumed that components 1, 2 and 3 are closely inter-linked, in that the benefits accruing
from component #2 cannot be realized without the capacity building investments provided under component #I
and the project management investments provided under component #3. For this reason, only one rate of retum,
that which accrues to the project as a whole, is reported here. Component-specific rates of return are not
relevant to the Government's or the Bank's decision to proceed with this operation.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
12.    Assumptions Made and Calculations Used in Incremental Earnings Analysis. The benefit stream is
calculated by taking 25 percent of the average annual wage differential between workers with and without the
special market-relevant skills (English and computers) and multiplying this differential by the projected number
of graduates year by year. Additional assumptions used in calculating the benefit stream include the following:
*  the incremental earnings observed in 1995 will increase at an annual rate of 5.8% in real terms. This is the rate
at which graduate starting salaries were observed to increase in the HEGTS between 1990 and 1993
(Sakellariou 1996). The justification for this assumption is that the demand for graduate skills will go up as
Vietnam's market economy continues to evolve;
*  the increase in earnings will persist during the first 10 years of a graduate's working life; thereafter, the
increment between the two groups of workers will remain constant;
*  the number of graduates will increase at an average annual rate that is 1.4 percentage points higher than the
growth rate of enrollments. This implies that the ratio of graduates to FTE enrollments will increase from
about 8 percent at the start of the project to 12 percent 30 years later. The justification for this assumption is
that the internal, flow-through efficiency of university education will improve as a result of the quality
improvements arising from the project;
*  there will be full employment of university graduates. Those not employed as salaried workers will be self-
employed or will engage in household activities, and their productivity will parallel that of those earning
salaries; and
v  the benefits of the project are projected to continue for 30 years.
13.    The cost stream is calculated by apportioning US$5.1 million of component #1 costs, US$68.7 million
of component #2 costs (University Quality Improvement Awards), and US$2:0 million of component #3 costs to
the incremental earnings benefits.
Results
14.    Given the assumptions detailed above and applying a 10 percent social discount rate results in a net
present value for the project of US$49.2 million. The internal economic (and financial) rate of return is 18
percent. These results are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: Economic Analysis of the Projecta
Present Value Flows (in US$ million; base year = 1998)
Benefits                               115.2
Costs                                  66.0
Net Benefits                              49.2
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                    17.8%
Note: aThe economic and financial flows are assumed to be equivalent.
Sensitivity Analysis
15.    The critical project risks identified in Block 3 of the PAD can be categorized as arising from: (a) poor
management/internal capacity, and (b) instability in the macro economic/external environment. Both risk
factors could erode the projected improvements in the quality and efficiency of higher education set out as the
objectives of the project. In particular, these factors could alter the following parameters of the cost-benefit
analysis: (i) the rate of project disbursement; (ii) the cost-savings per student-year; (iii) the earnings differential
per graduate; (iv) the number of FTE students enrolled in higher education; and (v) the graduation rate, i.e., the



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
ratio of graduates to FTE enrollments. In order to evaluate the impact of these risks on the economic value of
the project, the values of these parameters are altered one by one and the rate of return re-estimated. The altered
assumptions and simulated results are presented in Table 3.
Table 3. Sensitivity Analysis
Altered Assumption                                      IRR
1. Project implementation/disbursements delayed by two years -- all costs and benefits occur two  17.6%
years later relative to the 1998 base year
2. Unit cost differential resulting from improved university administration and scale economies only    17.0%
VND 10,000 instead of VND 34,000 per student per year
3. MPI enrollment targets in higher education not fully met - FTE enrollment growth between 1995  17.6%
and 2000 only 25% instead of 50%
4. Lower graduation rate -- ratio of graduates to FTE enrollments increases from 8% to only 10%  16.9%
(instead of 12%) over the 30 years
5. Lower wage differential resulting from quality improvements in higher education -- VND 98,000  9.2%
per month, or half of the VND 196,000 figure used above
6. Higher wage differential resulting from quality improvements in higher education -- VND 392,000   38.3%
per month, or twice the VND 196,000 figure used above
7. All project costs included in the cost-benefit analysis -- i.e., the costs in the last column of Table 1    14.5%
not excluded



Attachment I
Page I of 2
Checklist of Regional Guidelines for
Economic Analysis of Education Projects
I.     Project Coherently set in the CAS and ESW
See Block 2, section 5 of PAD.
2.     Quantitative Analysis of Alternative Project Design
See Block 1, Section 8 of PAD.
Public-private provision: The rate of return analyses conducted on the basis of 1992-93 Vietnam Living Standards
Survey (VLSS) data could not distinguish rates of return to investments in public and private ("semi-public" and
"people-founded") universities in Vietnam, because of the small numbers of university graduates in the VLSS
sample and because of the very recent introduction of private higher education institutions in the country. Data
from pilot university graduate tracer studies conducted during project preparation for this operation suggest (based
on a comparison of recent graduates from two public universities and one people-founded university, all in Hanoi)
that the initial employment experience of private university graduates is at least as good as that of graduates from
public institutions. Hence, it could be argued that it is better to support private institutions rather than public under
this operation. For this reason, the capacity building investments under the project will be made available to public
and private institutions alike, and both public and private institutions will be eligible for Quality Improvement
Grants under the project provided that they meet the criteria for such grants. Nevertheless, given the current
Vietnamese context and the continuing ambivalence of Government officials in regard to the opening up of private
education in Vietnam, the realistic objective of this first higher education operation is to make Vietnam's public
institutions, which will continue to dominate higher education in terms of student numbers into the foreseeable
future, more demand driven and responsive to the emerging market economy. Non-public institutions are likely to
grow in importance as Government restrictions continue to be relaxed and as Vietnamese households exercise the
option of paying for quality education wherever this can be found, in the public or private sector. This is a
secondary objective of the current operation, but to push this objective too hard and too fast at this stage would
almost certainly be counter-productive in the current Vietnamese context.
3.     Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
See Block 3, Section 20 and Annex 5 of PAD for fiscal impact.
Cost recovery: The Higher Education Institutional Finance Survey demonstrated that student charges as a
proportion of the recurrent budget had been 32 percent in 1993, but had declined to 21 percent by 1995.
Government has already put forward a proposal for revising the pricing structure for the education sector, and the
project will provide the analytical tools and guidance for introducing such revisions for the higher education sub-
sector. Student fees as a proportion of the government's recurrent budget will gradually increase over the life of the
project, from the present level of 21 percent, hack to the previous level of 32 percent by 2003, and even earlier if
this proves to be politically feasible. The increase in student fees modeled in Annex 5 of the PAD is a very
conservative estimate, well below the proposals currently being considered. Nevertheless, the impact of even a
conservative estimate will be substantial, with an increase in student fees due to the project reaching approximately
$9 million in 2003 if the 32 percent target is met.
4.     Completeness and Internal Coherence of Cost-Benefit analysis or Other Selection Criteria
See the cost-benefit analysis of the project presented in Annex 4 of PAD.
Demand analysis: In the academic year 1993/94, approximately 156 thousand students graduated from upper
secondary school (MOET, 1995); however, the estimated number of new entrants (full-time equivalent) into the



Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
first year of higher education during this period was approximately 36 thousand. The fact that there are four times
as many upper secondary graduates as there are available places in the higher education institutions in Vietnam
clearly indicates the potential demand for higher education in Vietnam. Furthermore, Vietnam's tertiary gross
enrollment ratio of 3 percent in 1993 is far below the regional average of 13 percent, and is one of the reasons
behind MOET's pledge to increase tertiary education enrollments by 50 percent between 1995 and 2000. Hence it
can be contended that Government's commitment to significant growth in enrollments in this sub-sector, recent
increases in the salaries of university graduates (especially those with new skills), as well as increasing demand by
employers for university graduates will make higher education more attractive in the coming years, thus increasing
its demand.
5.     Sensitivity Analysis
See the cost-benefit analysis of the project presented in Annex 4 of PAD.
6.     Institutional Capacity and Risk Analysis
See Block 2, Section 21 of PAD for critical project risks.
The institutional capacity and arrangements for the project were assessed in detail during the pre-appraisal mission.
Although potential changes in the responsibility for the management of the HE sub-sector was identified as a
medium-term risk in the project concept document, the appraisal team was confident that any future changes would
not affect the long-term stability of the project as several actors from key ministries, and not just MOET, will be
involved with project implementation. The creation of an inter-ministerial committee (IMC) was agreed upon
during the appraisal mission and terms-of-reference have been prepared. This committee, comprising of key high-
level actors from cross-sectoral ministries and higher education institutions, will act as the oversight body for
awarding of quality improvement funds, and hence will have the most responsibility for managing component #2 of
the project (with the help of MOET and the PCU). The composition of the IMC ensures institutional sustainability
of the project even in the event of a change in management of the HE sub-sector. It will also ensure that
institutional capacity is at its highest since key stakeholders from all relevant parts of government and the higher
education sub-sector are involved in important decision-making processes.
7.     Poverty and Gender Analysis
The project does not have any direct impact on poverty alleviation or improving gender equality.
8.     Environmental Analysis and Linkage to Economic Analysis
None.
9.     Economic Performance Criteria
See Annex 1 of PAD for key performance indicators.
10.    Overall Assessment
Based on the above nine items.



Annex 5
Page I of 2
Annex 5
Higher Education Project
Financial Summary
Table 1: Project Financial Summary (in US$ million)
Implementation Period             Initial Post-Implementation Period*
98-99   99-00   00-01  01-02  02-03  03-04   2004   2005    2006    2007
A. Financial Summary
1. Investment Costs of Project    7.0    13.1    16.9   24.8   19.3   13.4        4.6    6.1      7.8      9.7
2. Incremental Recurrent Costs of  0.6     1.3    1.6    1.8   1.9    2.0         2.9    2.9    2.9        2.9
Project, of which:
(a) communications & office leasing    0.1  0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.2         0.5    0.5      O.5      O.5
(b) increm. salaries of national staff   0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2        0.2    0.2    0.2        0.2
(c) increm. salaries of univ. staff  0.3  1.0    1.3      1.5   1.6    1.6        2.2    2.2    2.2        2.2
Total Project Costs            7.6    14.4   18.5   26.6  21.2    15.4         7.5    9.0   10.7    12.6
B. Sources of Financing   (% of Total  cost)
1. IDA                           91%    83%    79%    82%   79%    74%            0%      0%      0%       0%
2. Government                     5%      10%    14%      12%   14%    15%       71%    76%    79%        83%
3. Universities                   4%      7%      7%      6%    7%      11%      29%    24%    21%        17%
Total                        100%   100%   100%   100%  100%   100%.  100%   100%   100%    100%
Note: * It is assumed that government will continue to operate the quality improvement grant scheme after the
project closes, and that this expenditure will reach 4% of the total HE budget allocation by 2007.
Table 2: Project Impact on Government Higher Education Recurrent Budget and Sustainability of QIG Scheme
(in US$ million)
I  Initial Post-Implementation
.   Implementation Period               Period*
98-99 99-00 00-01 01-02 02-03 03-04   2004   2005   2006   2007
1. Projected government HE recurrent budget w/o project  73.4  78.0  84.2  90.5  96.5 103.0  109.8  117.1  125.0  133.3
2. Incremental recurrent costs due to project        0.6   1.3   1.6  1.8   1.9   2.0    2.9   2.9    2.9   2.9
3. Recurrent revenues/cost-savings due to project, of which:  0.5   1.3  2.5  4.5   7.1   9.6   12.7  13.4   14.5  15.4
(a) increase in studentfees due to project        0.5   1.3  2.3   4.3   6.5   9.0   11.8  12.5   13.4  14.3
(b) cost-savings from efficiency gains            0.0   0.0  0.2  0.2    0.6   0.6    0.9   0.9    1.1   1.1
4. Government recurrent budget with project         73.3  78.0  83.3  87.8   91.3  95.4  100.1  106.6  113.4  120.8
5. Projected Net Savings (1-4 = 3-2)                 -0.1   0.0  0.9  2.7   5.2   7.6    9.8  10.5   11.6  12.5
6. Governmenfs contribution to QIG scheme            0.0   0.5  0.7   1.3   2.5   4.0    4.6   6.1    7.8   9.7
7. Projected Net Savings (after government's contribution   -0.1  -0.5  0.2   1.4   2.7   3.6    5.2   4.4    3.8   2.8
to QlGs)                                                                              .



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
1.    Financial summary: Table 1 presents the total costs of the Higher Education Project during the
implementation period (1998/99-2003/04) and during the initial post-implementation period after the
close of the project (2004-07). Most of the project costs are investment costs, which include the quality
improvement grants provided to universities on a competitive basis. The incremental recurrent costs
brought about by the project consist of three categories, as shown in lines 2 (a), (b) and (c) of the first
part of Table 1.
2.     Project impact: Table 2 presents the impact of the project on the government's higher education
recurrent budget. Net savings are projected by the time that the project closes. The higher education
recurrent budget projections (without the project) are based on the Country Department's latest RMSM
model and the education model presented in Annex 6 of the Vietnam Education Financing Sector Study
(World Bank, 1996). Higher education's share of the total recurrent budget is held constant over the
period.
3.     Efficiency gains and cost recovery: As the table indicates, the recurrent revenues/cost-savings
due to the project arise from efficiency gains in universities and from an increase in student fees. Student
fees as a proportion of the government's recurrent budget are expected to gradually increase over the life
of the project, from its present level of 21 percent, to 32 percent in 2003. The Higher Education
Institutional Finance Survey demonstrated that student charges as a proportion of the recurrent budget
had been 32 percent in 1993, but had declined to 21 percent by 1995. Revisions in the pricing policy for
higher education are projected to bring cost-recovery back to the 1993 level by the end of the project.
4.     Sustainability of QIG scheme: Certain investment costs, namely, the quality improvement grants,
can continue to be financed by the government after the IDA project closes. While government's
contribution to the QIG channel will increase only very gradually during the life of the project (reaching 2
percent of the higher education budget by the last year of the project), government's contribution can
continue to rise over the next four years thereafter, reaching approximately 4 percent of the total higher
education budget by the year 2007. The incremental recurrent costs will remain constant during the
initial post-implementation period, during which the universities and government will continue to cover
the staffing, communications and leasing costs introduced under the project.
5.     Conclusions: The following conclusions emerge from the above fiscal impact analysis: (i) net
savings in the higher education recurrent budget arise due to the project; (ii) net savings in the recurrent
budget persist even with the additional costs of financing the QIG scheme; (iii) government's continued
financing of the QIG scheme is sustainable after the project closes, and hence the government and
universities have the option of assuming total financial responsibility for the QIG scheme after the
withdrawal of donor funding; and (iv) the project contributes to generating a net savings which reduces
the burden of higher education operations on the state budget and creates the possibility of allocating
resources for further expansion of the QIG scheme, or even a redistribution of public subsidies to lower
levels of education.



Annex 6
Page I of 5
Annex 6
Higher Education Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Consultants
All except Consultants Services    Services/t
Expenditure Category         ICB   NCB   Other/a NBF/b  QCBS           Other      TOTAL
(SS/individual)
A. Goods
1. Computers/Software                  1.1    2.9      0.7                                   4.7
(1.1)   (2.9)   (0.7)                                 (4.7)
2. Office, Equip., Vehicles and Fumiture       0.5     0.3                                    0.8
(0.5)   (0.3)                                 (0.8)
B.  Grants                                                78.7/d                                 78.7
(69.6)                                (69.6)
C.  Consultants Services                                                    0.7        2.5        3.2
(0.7)      (2.5)      (3.2)
D. Training
1. Fellowships & Study Tours                           1.0                                    1.0
(1.0)                                 (1.0)
2. Local Training and Workshops                                2.2                            2.2
E.  Incremental Salary/e                                            8.4                           8.4
F.  Implementation and Operating Costs                     4.0                                    4.0
(4.0)                                 (4.0)
G. Rental of Offices and Meeting Spaces                             0.7                           0.7
TOTAL                   1.1    3.4    84.7    11.3    0.7           2.5      103.7/f
IDA CREDIT               (1.1)   (3.4)  (75.6)            (0.7)      (2.5)      (83.3)



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
/a Other procurement methods include: (i) international shopping with three price quotations from at least two countries,
and (ii) national shopping with three quotations from qualified suppliers, and government's administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Requests for quotations will indicate the description and quantity of the goods as well as the
desired delivery time and place. See also note (d) for procurement using grant funds.
/b Not Bank Financed.
/c Consultants services selection methods are either: (a) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) for firms or
(b) Single-Source (SS) or qualification for individuals. The total of SS contracts will not exceed an aggregate amount
of US$150,000.
/d Grant expenditures will follow agreed procedures documented in Grant Operational Manual. Aggregation of the
procurement activities of various grant agreements signed separately is not practically feasible, given different
specialties, locations, and the procurement time schedules of university units. While grants will be awarded using
agreed procedures documented in the Operational Manual, procurement of goods and services using such grant
agreements will follow the same procedures as for other project components, i.e., for goods >$100,000 -ICB, and for
individual consultants >$50,000 and firm >$100,000-QCBS.
/e Including universities contribution of US$7.8 million.
If Taxes excluded.
Note:   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA. All figures include price and
physical contingencies.
Procedures
Procurement will follow the World Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods and services including
procurement covered by the Cofinancier. -- Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and revised September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines),
and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines) -- in all respects. Preference for domestically
manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for ICB procurement.
National Competitive Bidding procedures will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation
and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated bidder;
and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in NCB. Side letter for the NCB
procedures was agreed upon during negotiations and was attached to the minutes of negotiations.
A detailed procurement plan was prepared and discussed with the Govermment's Project Unit. The
procurement plan is filed with the project documents. It includes a timeline showing each activity under
each procurement (i.e. ICB, NCB, shopping and consultant recruitment), beginning with the required
advertisement, preparation of bidding documents/requests for proposals, bidding period, bid evaluation
reports, Government and Bank reviews, award of contract and project implementation. (see MS Project
file: Vnhepro2.mpp).



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
Thresholds for procurement and prior review are given in Table B.
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
(in US$ equivalent)
Procurement Methods
Categories         All Except Consultants Services       Consultants Services   Prior Review by IDA
ICB          NCB             Others      QCBS    SS/Individual
Goods     >100,000   >25,000 x <100,000  <25,000 (aggregate   NA   NA       >100,000
(aggregate 3,400,000) 1,000,000)
Grants                                      All                             All "A" grants, the first "C"
grant awarded to each
university and any "C" grant
> $1.5 million.
Consultants   NA           NA              NA        All firm   <50,000     Firm >100,000
Services                                             contracts   5 aggregate   Individual >50,000
150,000      Idvda 5,0
Single-source & all TORs
Training      NA           NA               All         NA         NA       Programs
The draft procurement plan for the project prepared during the Appraisal Mission including details of the
time-line of each procurement activity (including preparation of notices and advertising, and all mandatory
reviews and non-objection letters) was updated at negotiations and the MS project data-file is in the
project documentation. The value of contracts subject to prior review is anticipated to be about 61% of
IDA funded contracts. This is below the target of 80% due to this project's characteristics, which like
many education projects, has a large number of low valued contracts. The number of random post reviews
of contracts and procurement procedures has been increased proportionally. Post review of 20% of all
procurement will be done on a random basis by the Resident Mission in Vietnam.
Documents
For ICB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents
For NCB: Model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank
For Consultants: Bank's standard contracts; samples for Letters of Invitation (LOI) and Information to
Consultants
Other documents include: Bank's standard bid evaluation form and standard general and specific
procurement notices, and for grants, the operational manual.
Measures to improve PCU and universities procurement capacity
A procurement and purchasing advisory service will be created inside the PCU. PCU procurement staff
will receive training on the Bank's procurement procedures and related documents.
Universities that are awarded grants will be responsible for procurement related to the use of each grant,
following the same procedures as for other project components (goods exceeding $100,000 will be
procured using ICB procedures; consultant services from firms will be procured using QCBS procedures.
Universities receiving grants will be guided and supported by the PCU's purchasing/procurement service).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Disbursement
Disbursement will not be made for goods and service that are ineligible for IDA financing.
The US dollar will be considered an eligible currency for bidding and payment (paras. 2.29 and 2.32 of the
Procurement Guidelines) and it will also be acceptable for consultants services payment.
Allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in               Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                5.5       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
2. Grants
Grants "A"                             13.5                       100%
Grants "B"                             12.1                        90%
Grants "C"                             30.0                        80%
3. Consultant Services                  3.2                        100%
4. Fellowships and Study Tours           1.0                       100%
5. Implementation and Operating         4.0                        100%
Costs/a
6. Unallocated                          14.0
Total                      83.3
/a:    Implementation and operating costs include fees for data collection, office supplies and consumables,
communication costs, travel and allowances of project staff, but exclude all salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil
service and rental of office space.
Use of statement of expenses (SOEs):
Contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods.
Consultant contracts of less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals.
All "B" grants and any "C" grant valued at less than $1.5 million each.
Fellowships and study tours and project implementation and operating costs.
Special account:
There will be two Special Accounts: (i) one of US$3.5 million for grants; and (ii) one of US$1.5 million
for all other eligible activities.
Direct payment: minimum application amount above 20 percentage of each of the Special Account
deposit.
Disbursement conditions (for grants):
The govemment will confirm that it has appointed the manager of the Proposal Assessment Unit charged
with administering the processing of QIG applications.
Project Accounts and Auditing
The PCU will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the
Bank.
An annual audit report of project accounts, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
in accordance with the Bank document "Financial Account Reporting and Auditing Handbook", January
1995 will be submitted to IDA no more than six months after completion of each fiscal year.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Higher Education Project
Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Bank Review
Category             Total Value     Year       Estimated  Prepared By   Sign With   Procurement     Kind /b         By        Disbursement
(US$ M)                   Contract                              Method                                  Method from
Quantity                                                                     Credit Proceed
Equipment/Vehicles/Furniture
Computers/Software
Small package <$25,000                  0.5   1,2,3,4,5,6         20      PCU        Supplier     Shopping    Random Post       RMV            SOE
Medium package >$25,000-<$ 100,000      3.1    1,2,3,4,5          40      PCU        Supplier       NCB        Random Post      RMV            SOE
>$100,000                                1.1     3,4,5              3     PCU        Supplier        ICB           Prior        TTL        Full Document
Office, Vehicles & Furniture
Small package <$25,000                  0.5    1,2,3,4            20      PCU        Supplier      Shopping    Random Post      RMV            SOE
>$25,000 - <$100,000                    0.3      1,2,3             4      PCU        Supplier       NCB        Random Post      RMV            SOE
>$100,000                                 0        -               0      PCU        Supplier        ICB           Prior        TTL        Full Document
Consultancy Services
Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS)
Firm
>$100,000 - <$200,000                 0.3   1,2,3,4,5,6          3      PCU       Cons. Firm    Short listing    Prior        TTL        Full Document
>$200,000 (Mandatory Advertising      0.4      2,3,4              1     PCU       Cons. Firm    Short listing    Prior        TTL        Full Document
&
Tech Eval Prior Review)
Individual
<$50,000                              1.35   1,2,3,4,5,6         8      PCU       Ind. Cons.    Short listing   Limited Prior  TTL/RMV       SOE
>$50,000 - <$200,000                   1.0   1,2,3,4,5,6         7      PCU       Ind. Cons.    Short listing    Prior        TTL        Full Document
Single-Source Selection (SS)
Individual
<$50,000                             0.15    1,2,3,4,5           3      PCU       Ind. Cons.    Sole Source   Limited Prior  TTL/RMV         SOE
Overseas Fellowships & Study Tours          1.0   1,2,3,4,5,6    multiple     PCU       Institution     Direct     Limited Prior    TTL            SOE
Grants /a
A Grants (0.5 m each approx.)            15.1    1,2,3,4,5         27      PCU       University    Competitive      Prior        TTL        Full Document
B Grants (0.75 m each approx)            13.5   2,3,4,5,6          16      PCU       University    Competitive   Random Post  TTL/RMV           SOE
C Grants (0.75 above)                    30.2   2,3,4,5,6          25      PCU       University    Competitive    Prior/R.Post   TTL/RMV    Full Doc/SOE
Reserved Grants (undefined)              10.8     4,5,6            12      PCU       University    Competitive      Prior      TTL/RMV          SOE
Implementation/Operating Costs                4   1,2,3,4,5,6     n/a         PCU        Various        Other      Random Post      RMV            SOE
83.3                      189
/a Follow agreed operational manual; all "A" grants, the first "C" grants awarded to each university, and any "C" grant >$1,500,000 each are subject to prior review and full documentation.
/b Prior review, limited prior review (TOR, proposed program and draft contract), and random post review by RMV or SPN missions,
/c Task Team Leader



Annex 7
Higher Education Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (Bank Budget) from inception    Planned               Actual
to Board                                     (At final PCD stage)
US$635,000           US$685,000
B. Project Schedule                               Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
(concept document to appraisal departure)                               9 months
First Bank mission (identification)               --l--ll9--           04/--/1992
Appraisal mission departure                      03/15/1997            06/07/1997
Negotiations                                     05/22/1997            06/20/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/--/1997            11/28/1998
Prepared by: the Project Preparation Unit Secretariat (PPUS) of the Ministry of Education and
Training (PPUS/MOET)
Preparation assistance was made available from multiple sources and was used to develop capacity in
the universities and to pilot specific sub-components of the project. Thus, the government has already
benefited from close to US$0.9 million capacity building, training and external advisory inputs.
Major funds included a PHRD grant from Japan and two trust funds each from Australia and France.
In addition, the British Council, and the governments of Australia, the Netherlands and New Zealand,
each provided bilateral support in the form of study tours to their countries, as did a consortium of
American universities and colleges.
The PHRD Grant of US$563,000 was used during preparation to provide consultants and expertise in
project preparation that included:
-  creating, operating and assisting a small national project preparation unit (PPUS of MOET) with
technical assistance and operating expenditures;
-  supporting ten national working groups each preparing specific parts of the project;
-  undertaking national workshops to disseminate and discuss the results of analysis undertaken by
consultants and national teams;
*  carrying out the first comprehensive national survey of the financial operations of all higher
education institutions;
*  piloting the first institution-based longitudinal surveys of recent graduates from higher education
and refining a "graduate tracer survey" methodology that the project will generalize;
*  undertaking study tours; and
*  providing basic equipment and documentation to the PPUS and translating examples of similar
higher education project throughout the world.
The AUSAid Trust Fund resources of US$369,000 were used during preparation to provide technical
assistance, training and capacity building in the areas of:
*  strategic planning and university performance indicators;
*  higher education policy analysis;
*  resource allocation mechanisms and funding formula for higher education;
*  analysis of survey data on the financial operations of higher education institutions;
*  preliminary bench-marking of university academic performance;
*  review of the legislative framework for higher education; and
* initial design of eligibility and award procedures to govern the use of quality improvement grants.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
French Trust Fund resources of US$40,000 were used during preparation to provide technical
assistance in educational planning, policy analysis and initial drafting of a higher education policy
statement.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Team:    Christopher Shaw (Task Team Leader), Carol Ball, Rapti Goonesekere,
Peter Moock, Kathy Li Tow Ngow (EASED); Mai Thanh Thi (EACVF);
Gaye Lindsey (LOAAS); C. Garstang, Carlos Escudero (LEGEA).
Peer reviewers: Nicholas Burnett (AFTH2); Lauritz Holm-Nielsen,
William Experton (LCSHD).
Extended team: Price Gittinger; Kathryn Johnston; Josephine Hykin; Nguyen X. Nguyen;
Harry Patrinos; Nicholas Prescott; Shobhana Sosale.
Consultants who worked on preparation included:
Michael Boesen; Ta Ngoc Chau; Michael Gallagher; Peter Grant;
David Laidlaw; Christopher Lynch; Robyn McKay; Gregor Ramsey;
Mark Sidel; Gordon Stanley; William Thorn; Maureen Woodhall.



Annex 8
Higher Education Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan (costs and procurement plans)
I.    Ministry of Education and Training (MOET). Borrower Implementation Plan. March 1997.
2.     COSTAB files -- detailed cost tables for the project activities (File: Vn_he8-2.tab)
3.     Detailed procurement plan and timeline MS Project files (File: Vnhepro2.mpp)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The strategy underlying the economic analysis (April 1997):
1. Economies of scale analysis
2. Cost-savings/efficiency gains analysis
3. Incremental earnings analysis
4. Estimating overall rate of return to project
5. Estimating alternative rates of return through sensitivity analysis
The strategy underlying the fiscal analysis (April 1997):
1. Estimating project impact on higher education budget
2. Evaluating the sustainability of the QIG scheme
3. Education's budgetary projections until 2004 (Education Model)
C. Other
1. Chau, T.N. 1996. "Vietnam: Performance of the Educational System." Background paper for the
Vietnam Education Finance Sector study (VEFSS). International Institute of Education Planning,
Paris.
2. Dang Ba Lam. 1996. Education and Training in Vietnam and its Development Orientations up to 2010.
Hanoi.
3. Laidlaw, D. & Sidel, M. 1997. "The Legislative Framework for Higher Education Reform in Vietnam."
(Draft Report to the World Bank).
4. McKay, R. 1995. Performance Indicatorsfor Higher Education Resource Allocation. The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
5. Mingat, A. 1995. "Towards Improving Our Understanding of High-Performing Asian Economies in the
Education Sector." IREDU; CNRS and University of Dijon.
6. Patrinos, H.A. 1997. "Vietnam: Rates of Return to University Education in 1996".
7. Sakellariou, C.N. 1996. "Vietnam Higher Education Tracer Study: Discussion of Analytical Results".
8. Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 1994. General Statistical Office. Guideline for the Implementation of
Censuses and Sample Surveys in Education. Hanoi.
9. _. 994. State Planning Committee and General Statistical Office. Vietnam Living Standards Survey:
1992-1993. Hanoi.
10. _ . 995. Ministry of Education and Training. Statistical Data on Education and Training 1981-1990.
Educational Management Information Office. Hanoi.
11.    . 1995. Ministry of Education and Training. Statistical Data on Education and Training 1945-1995.
Educational Management Information Office. Hanoi.
12.    . 1995. Ministry of Education and Training and The World Bank. Vietnam Higher Education
Institutional Finance Survey. Hanoi.
13.   . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training and The World Bank. Vietnam Higher Graduate Tracer
Survey. Hanoi.
14. . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training, National Institute for Educational Development, with
Shobhana Sosale. "Financial Operations and Unit Costs of Higher Education in Vietnam: A
Descriptive Analysis of the Vietnam Survey of Higher Education Institutions, 1995-96." Background
paper for VEFSS and proposed higher education operation in Vietnam. Hanoi.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
15.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training, National Institute for Educational Development, with
Nguyen X. Nguyen. "Internal Efficiency of Higher Education in Vietnam: An Analysis of Economies
of Scale and Economies of Scope, 1993-95." Background paper for VEFSS and proposed higher
education operation in Vietnam. Hanoi.
16.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training, National Institute for Educational Development, with
M. Woodhall. "Managing Resources and Finances of Higher Education." Background paper for
VEFSS and proposed higher education operation in Vietnam. Hanoi.
17.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training. "Legislation and Regulation of Higher Education in
Vietnam." Report of Working Group 1.
18.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training, National Institute for Educational Development.
"Resources and Finance Management of Vietnam's Higher Education." Report of Working Group 2.
19.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training, National Institute for Educational Development.
"Quality Assurance and Accreditation in Higher Education." Report of Working Group 3.
20.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training. "Sub-project Proposal for Hanoi National University."
Report of Working Group 4.
21.    . 1996. Ministry of Education and Training. "Sub-project Proposal for Ho Chi M.nh City National
University." Report of Working Group 5.
22.    . 1995. Ministry of Education and Training. "The Special Fund Processes and Procedures." Draft
Report of Working Group 6.
23.    . 1996. Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs with C. Sakellariou. "Vietnam Higher
Education Tracer Study: Discussion of Analytical Results." Background Paper for VEFSS Higher
Education Graduate Tracer Study. Hanoi.
24.    . 1996. Government Statistical Office and Asian Development Bank. Vietnam Social Sector Survey.
Hanoi.
25. Sosale, S. and M. Woodhall. 1996. "Higher Education Student Loan Scheme." Background paper for
VEFSS and proposed higher education operation in Vietnam. Hanoi.
26. Sosale, S. 1996. "External Assistance for Tertiary Education." Background paper for proposed higher
education project.
27.    . 1996. "Vietnam Higher Education Finance Survey 1995: An Assessment of Lessons Learned."
Background paper on behalf of Working Group 2.
28. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). 1995. Development Co-operation Reportfor
Vietnam. 1994 Report. Hanoi.
29. VEFSS. 1996. Report of VEFSS Working Group on Education Statistics. Ministry of Education and
Training. Hanoi.
30.    . 1996. Report of VEFSS Working Group on Labor Market Linkages. Ministry of Labor, Invalids
and Social Affairs. Hanoi.
31.    . 1996. Report of VEFSS Working Group on Public Finance. Ministry of Finance. Hanoi.
32.    . 1997. Law on Education (sixteenth draft). Ministry of Education and Training, Law on Education
Preparation Commission. Hanoi.
33.    . 1995. National Policy and Legislation (Final Report). Higher Education Consolidation and
Reform Project, Working Group 1. Ministry of Education and Training. Hanoi.
34. Vu, Minh. 1995. "Legislative Framework for Higher Education in Vietnam." Draft report for the Higher
Education Operation.
35. World Bank. 1996. Vietnam Education Financing Sector Study. A Sector Report (Report No. 15925-VN)
East Asia and the Pacific Region, Country Department 1, Washington, D.C.
36.    . 1993. The East Asian Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy. New York: Oxford
University Press.
37.    . 1993. Vietnam: Transition to the Market: An Economic Report (Report No. 11902-VN). East
Asia and the Pacific Region, Country Department 1, Washington, D.C.
38.    . 1994. "Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience. Washington, D.C.
39.    . 1995. Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review. Washington, D.C.
40.    . 1995. Vietnam: Poverty Assessment and Strategy (Report No. 1 3442-VN). East Asia and the
Pacific Region, Country Department 1, Washington, D.C.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1998)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
VN-PE-45628   IDA30340       1998   GOV                                TRANSMISSION & DISTR              0.00      199.00             0.00        192.28        4.93       0.00
VN-PE-4839    IDA29960       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                   FOREST PROT.& RUL DE              0.00       21.50             0.00         20.47        0.00       0.00
VN-PE-4843    IDA30000       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                   INLAND WATERWAYS                  0.00       73.00             0.00         70.51        -.28       0.00
VN-PE-4844    IDA30990       1998   GOV                                AGRI DIVERSIFICATION              0.00       66.85             0.00         66.05        0.00       0.00
VN-PE-39021   IDA29290       1997   GOV'T OF VIET NAM                  RURAL TRANSPORT                   0.00       55.00             0.00         41.22          .53      0.00
VN-PE-4830    IDAN0260       1997   GOV                                WATER SUPPLY                      0.00       98.61             0.00         94.94       12.84       0.00
VN-PE-4842    IDAN0130       1997   GOVT OF VIET NAM                   HIGHWAY REHAB II                  0.00      195.60             0.00        176.58       17.31       0.00
VN-PE-36042   IDA27850       1996   SOC. REP. OF VIETNAM               BANKING SYSTEM MODER              0.00       49.00             0.00         43.29       37.68       0.00
VN-PE-42236   IDA28200       1996   GOVT. OF VIETNAM                   POWER DEV                         0.00      180.00             0.00         14.50      -20.41       0.00
VN-PE-4838    IDA28080       1996   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE          NATIONAL HEALTH SUPP              0.00      101.20             0.00         80.50        8.82       0.00
VN-PE-4841    IDA28070       1996   SOC REP OF VIET NAM                POPULATION & FAMILY               0.00       50.00             0.00         36.48        8.09       0.00
VN-PE-4847    IDA28550       1996   GOV                                RURAL FINANCE                     0.00      122.00             0.00        100.29       42.02       0.00
VN-PE-4834    IDA27110       1995   GOV                                IRRIGATION REHABILIT              0.00      100.00             0.00         70.33        1.08       0.00
VN-PE-4836    IDA27240       1995   EVN PC2 PC3                        POWER SECTOR REHAB &               0.00     165.00             0.00         65.06       64.76    -32.30
VN-PE-4832    IDA25490       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                   HIGHWAY REHAB                      0.00     158.50             0.00         79.72       77.70      31.70
VN-PE-4835    IDA25480       1994   SOC REP OF VIET NAM                PRIMARY EDUCATION                  0.00      70.00             0.00         40.09       19.27       -.67
VN-PE-4837    IDA25610       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                   AGRIC REHABILITATION              0.00       96.00             0.00          4.11        -.43       0.00
Total                                                                                                    0.00   1,801.26              0.00     1,196.42       273.91      -1.27
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  501.23              243.82              745.05
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                5.67                 5.67
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,801.26               239.03            2,040.29
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                             1,196.42                 0.00            1,196.42
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Vietnam
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Jun-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Hanoi Metropole          4.00    0.00    3.50   13.46    4.00    0.00    3.50   13.46
1995                  Baria Serece Prt         3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80
1995                  Foremost Dairy           7.20    0.00    0.00    5.85    7.20    0.00    0.00    5.85
1996                  Kyoei Steel             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Morn.Star Cement        30.00    0.00    0.00   66.60   27.90    0.00    0.00   61.94
1996                   Sucre de Bourbon       22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1996                   SMH Glass Co.          10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50   10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50
1996                  Vimaflour                8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00
1996                  VILC                     0.00     .75    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00
1997                   Saigon Hilton          13.05    0.00    0.00   28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  112.25      .75    3.50  143.21   97.10      .75    3.50  110.55
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  BA RIA                  24.20    4.00    0.00   49.00
1998                  BAWC                    12.50    0.00    0.00   12.50
1998                  MFL VINH PHAT             .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  NGHE AN SUGAR           20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                  NGHI SON CEMENT         30.00    0.00    0.00   26.50
1997                   SEM HOTEL               0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00
1996                  VIETNAM INTL LSE         5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1997                   VINAFOOD               10.50    0.00    0.00   13.50
Total Pending Commitment:         102.50    4.00    4.50  141.50



Annex 10
Vietnam at a glance                                                                7130/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East    Low-
Vietnam      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1997 (millions)                        76.8      1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1997 (US$) (prel.)                      320        890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1997 (billions US$)                                25.9     1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                       T
Population (X)                                         1.9       1.3      1.7      GNP                             Gross
Laborforce (Ai)                                        1.9       1.3      1.7      per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)              51
Urban populafion (% of total population)                21         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68         68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                41         40       69               Access to safe watr
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              45          ..      ..
Access to safe water (% of population)                  38         49       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     6         17       34                Vietnam
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  114        117      105            -  Loe-ncm
Male                                                  ..        120      112    ILow-income group
Female                                                ..       116        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                                   Est.
1975     1985      1996     1997
Economic rastos
GDP (billions US$)                             ..    17.0        23.3     25.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..        ..      27.9     27.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..       *-      41.6     44.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..      16.7     18.6
Current account balance/GDP                     ..    -3.1      -11.3     -8.8
Interest payments/GDP                          ..        ..        ..               Savings                     Investment
Total debtGDP                                   ..       ..      97.8
Total debt servicelexports                      .        .       15.4     14.4                    \V
Present value of debtVGDP                      ..
Present value of debUexports                   ..        ..         .                           Indebtedness
Est.    Proj.
197S-85  1986-96     1996      1997  1998-06
(average annual growth)                                                                       Vietnam
GDP                                    ..     6.9       9.3       8.8      7.7
GNP per capita                         .      4.9       5.7       6.8      5.5                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..    25.4     24.2       14.8      9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1996     199117
(% of GDP)                                                                 Est      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..      27.2     25.7      a0
Industry                                       ..        ..      30.7     31.7     so
Manufacturing                                 .                   .1     4        402./
Services                                        .        ..      42.1     42.6    |20-.
Private consumption                                 ..             ..       ..       91    92    93    94    95    9s    97
General government consumption                 ..I   -                                                          DP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..       55.3     53.8
1975-85  1986-96      1996     1997
(average annual growth)                                                    Est.     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%/.)
Agriculture                                     ..     5.2        4.4      4.0      so
Industry                                        -    11.7        14.4     13.0    so
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..        ..        ..    40
Services                                       ..      8.2       10.0      8.0      30
Private consumption                             ..      ..         ..       ..    10 ,
General govemment consumpfion                  ..        ..        ..       ..      o
Gross domestic investment                      ..    26.4        17.2      6.5       91    92    93    94    95    9a    97
Imports of goods and services                  ..    24.3        29.0      4.8
Gross national product                          ..      7.2       9.3      8.8               -     Exports  ---Imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Vietnam
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                              Est.
Domesfcprices51975                                    1985       1996     1997      Ifon
(% change)                                                                        i00
Consumer prices                                                   5.6      3.2        0
Implicit GDP deflator                                  94.2       6.1      5.6      4 0t
Govemment finance                                                                    o
(% of GDP)                                                                            73   33   14   1S   20    a         6
Current revenue                                                  23.6     22.4        91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                            5.9      5.2              -     GDP dsf. ---CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -0.2      -0.6
TRADE
(millions US$)                               1975     1985       1996     1997      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                    507      7,330    8,951     12,000
Rice                                          ..       ..985
Fuel                                          .         ..    1,346    1,443
Manufactures
Total imports (ci)                                     930    11,528   11838
Food
Fuel and energy200
Capital goods                                                                                                      1
Export price index (1987=100)                   .2                                                        4 e      o
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..        ..        ..       ..   J               cExports    a imports
Terms of trade (1987 100)                                                         |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996s    1997
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP rato (#)
Exports of goods and services                                   9,695   11,492       o
Imports of goods and services                                  12,870   13,917         L9           s 93   94   a  Be 9S   97
Resource balance                            -                  -3,176   -2,425       2
Net income                                             -90       -505     -564     -4
Net current transfers                                   52      1,045      711       ..
Current account balance,                                                            ..
before official capital transfers                    -534    -2,636   -2,278                                _
Financing items (net)                                  265      3,107    2,578
Changes in net reserves                                269       -471     -300    .12
Memo:                                                                              ____
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)
Conversion rate (local/US$)                             8.3  11,080.0 12,000.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           22,041   22,791                          BC  D
IBRD                                                              0        0                         4104s 113
IDA                                                            231      412
Total debt service                                                309                                   |l 3
IBRD                                                              0        0                          /
IDA                                                              2         3                         /.         \
Composition of net resource flows                                                           l 2
Official grants                             249       38        150      150
Official creditors                                             298       466
Private creditors                                              -67
Foreign direct investment                                     2,236    1,838
Portfolio equity                                                                                      E
21820.6
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                                    265       502      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   47       189      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Privato
Principal repayments                                              1        1      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       46       188
Interest payments                                                 2        2
Net transfers                                                    45      188
EASPR                                                                                                                7/30/98
Note: Debt includes non-convertible currency debt.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29692
102                   104                  106'                   108'                  110'
,,    R  r aGiong"\t'-?        C  H  I N  A
>                      ~~~~~~~~~Coo B;
< <~~~~~a Cal't            g        aoBng J
-22'          \Lai CIai '\y6n                                  S                                     22Ty
%  >       t't' ~So' Lc '      e B6i     V    Neen            3  ohr  Es  7
\->->t?   V    N9anS   Xo9g,    H;lB~~an @g in Lai -A 
N  S '                   f H  BocG Gang
H6a   6g
LAO   PEOPLE'S                  '-- ,   Nom  .,n-                      .   C
Guilf
\                    ~               Hainan I.
0 stoLe ~ ~~f(China)
1'                                 0             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tonkin9
VIETNAM
HIGHER EDUCATION                                                   .
PROJECT                                 I';-
,16'             PROJECT LOCATIONS                                 >                  "     '  ':' 16
A      NATIONAL UNIVERSITY
*      REGIONAL UNIVERSITY
OTHER HIGHER EDUCATION
INSTITUTIONS                                        J        Gu6ng-
NgaT
s    PROVINCE CAPITALS                         -                  KonTumr
    NATIONAL CAPITAL                              \..          K:n
-14'        -"   RIVERS                                \    g;>       <Plei Ku
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    Nh.
C A M B 01 A                           T
T H AI                            Ag                            B   'oa
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -GMi n$h iy  _$
9uf   '    ?9 h i o    
Thailnd -
o;n--- 0 0  X-                           S Xuy8n  0T  u 0   1 NU Ho Chi Minh City
This nias was~ prodtcod b 
Mdp Qest4n Unijtof rh ho 4d ok.  -:                                               -
Th bounanes co6F r.s derlnminoT- : 
0ad any t1der is7 nfonows-                                   .-  0                  1S0 .i-om-tei5
thbismo  dccnoety i er-ofq- . :           'Ca
Thae Wbfald Banl Gre p any jacrd9mefieS -t / ;       fma-.-  :                           Cgrs 
- on dw Jeganfsieas'f sany Serwitoryj: ;      f.---,- 
-any endrJrseeveet oIacceptQance0. o .J   1 998
ssicb~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL 1oOlre                            998'10



