Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3126 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Higher Education Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 8, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3126 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1998, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Dong” means the currency of the Borrower. 
(b)
“Grant Special Account” means the account established for the purpose of 
Part B of the Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement. 
(c)
“MOET” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Training, and any 
successor thereto. 
(d)
“Operational Manual” means the manual approved by the Borrower pursuant 
to paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the administration of Quality 
Improvement Grants to QIG Grantees under Part B of the Project. 
(e)
“Project Coordination Unit” and the acronym “PCU” mean the unit 
established by MOET pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(f)
“Project Special Account” means the account established for the purpose 
of Parts A and C of the Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(g)
“Proposal Assessment Unit” means the unit established by MOET pursuant to 
paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(h)
“The acronyms “QIG-A”, “QIG-B” and “QIG-C” mean a grant made or proposed 
to be made by the Borrower to a QIG Grantee out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
pursuant to paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement to assist in financing a portion of the cost of a 
Sub-project. 
(i)
“Quality Improvement Grants” means collectively the QIG-A, QIG-B and 
QIG-C and “Quality Improvement Grant” means any one of them. 
(j)
“QIG Grantee” means a university or similar higher education institution, 
established and operating in the territory of the Borrower, that meets the criteria 
for the award of a QIG-A, or QIG-B or QIG-C to undertake a Sub-project. 
(k)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Grant Special Account and the 
Project Special Account. 
(l)
“Sub-project” means a specific research, education or technical support 
project to improve the quality of undergraduate and graduate higher education and the 
relevance of the study programs offered, to be carried out by a QIG Grantee, financed 
in part out of the proceeds of a Quality Improvement Grant under Part B of the 
Project.
Page  3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty two million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 62,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars: (i) a special deposit account for the purpose of Parts A and C of the Project 
(the Project Special Account) and (ii) a special deposit account for the purpose of 
Part B of the Project (the Grant Special Account); each in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2009, and ending July 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2018, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
Page  4
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOET with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, higher education, management and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project, including sources of 
funding for amounts required to cover recurrent costs; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
Page  5
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Coordination Unit shall have been established and its 
Manager, Finance Officer and Purchasing Officer shall have been appointed in 
accordance with paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the letter of invitation for the consultants to assist the Project 
Coordination Unit in Project management and implementation, finance, and procurement, 
in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall have been 
issued;  and 
(c)
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been 
approved by MOET pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Governor or any of the Deputy Governors of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
VIETBANK
412248 NHTWVT
Hanoi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   4,100,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures
for other 
items
procured locally
(2)
Grants:
(a) QIG -A
  10,100,000
100% of the Grant
 amount  
(b) QIG -B
   9,000,000
90% of the Grant 
amount
(c) QIG -C
  22,300,000
80% of the Grant 
amount
(3)
Consultants’ Services
   2,400,000
100%
(4)
Fellowships and Study tours
     700,000
100%
(5)
Project implementation and
operating costs
   3,000,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
  10,500,000
  __________
TOTAL
  62,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project implementation and operating costs” means  data 
collection costs, travel expenses, office consumables, communication expenses of MOET 
in connection with the implementation of the Project and excludes all salaries and 
allowances of the Borrower’s staff and rental of office space.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
 payments for expenditures under Category 2 for a QIG Grant until the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association 
that the Manager of the Proposal Assessment Unit of MOET’s Higher Education Quality 
Assessment Center has been appointed in accordance with paragraph 1(c) of  Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(c)
payments for expenditures under Category 2 (a) for a QIG-A Grant unless: 
(i) the contract for a QIG-A Grant shall have been entered into pursuant to paragraph 
5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) the QIG-A Grant shall have been approved 
Page  8
by the Association pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(d)
payments for expenditures under Category 2 (c) for a QIG-C Grant unless: 
(i) the contract for a QIG-C Grant shall have been entered into pursuant to paragraph 
5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) the QIG-C Grant shall have been approved 
by the Association pursuant to paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) all goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (d) QIG-B Grants; (e) QIG-C Grants of less than $1,500,000 each; and 
(f) fellowships and study tours and Project implementation and operating costs; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) increase 
coherence, flexibility and responsiveness of  the higher education sub-sector to the 
changing demands of society and the market economy; (b) improve efficiency and 
resource utilization in the higher education sub-sector; and (c) improve the quality 
of curriculum, teaching, learning and research in higher education institutions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A: 
1.
Development of centralized functions for improved governance,  oversight, 
planning, management and administration of the higher education system through, inter 
alia, staff training, provision of administrative tools, software and related 
equipment, computerization and technical assistance. 
2.
Development of higher education institutions’ planning, management and 
monitoring functions through, inter alia, staff training,  provision of related 
equipment and technical assistance. 
3.
Development of higher education institutions’ administrative management through, 
inter alia, staff training, provision of computerized administrative software tools 
and technical assistance.
PART B:
Financing, through provision of Quality Improvement Grants to selected higher 
education institutions, of sub-projects to be carried out by such institutions, 
consisting of specific research, education or technical support projects to improve 
the quality of undergraduate and graduate higher education and the relevance of the 
study programs offered.
PART C:
Strengthening MOET’s capacity for project management and implementation 
including provision of equipment, staff training and technical assistance.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Page  9
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: Preference 
for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
 With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Page  10
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Advisory services for preparation of QIGs application under Part B of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, through MOET, establish and thereafter maintain at all times 
during the implementation of the Project:
(a)
by January 31, 1999, a Project Steering Committee chaired by a 
representative of MOET and with representatives, inter alia, of the Borrower’s Office 
of Government, State Bank of Vietnam, Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of 
Finance, Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment and Rectors of national and 
regional public universities selected by MOET, assigned with such functions and 
responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required for the 
overall coordination and oversight of Project implementation; 
(b)
a Project Coordination Unit, headed by a qualified and experienced 
Manager,  satisfactory to the Association, with such functions, responsibilities and 
resources, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, including a qualified and experienced Financial Officer and Purchasing 
Officer, as shall be required for the day-to-day implementation of the Project, 
including the preparation of Project reports, the maintenance of consolidated Project 
accounts, the implementation of procurement activities under International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding procedures, and the provision of guidance to 
the  higher education institutions implementing Sub-projects; and
(c) 
a Proposal Assessment Unit, headed by a Manager with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, with such functions, responsibilities and 
resources, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, as shall be required for assessing the eligibility and conformity of, ranking 
the applications for, and making recommendations on, the award of Quality Improvement 
Grants to higher education institutions, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the Operational Manual.
2.
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
MOET:  
(a)
adopt an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
include implementation responsibilities, procedures, guidelines and criteria for the 
selection of QIG Grantees and the awarding of Quality Improvement Grants (the 
Operational Manual); and 
(b)
thereafter implement such Part of the Project in accordance with such 
Manual and with the selection criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,  in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  The 
Borrower further undertakes not to amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or 
any provision therein without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
3.
To assist the PCU in carrying out its responsibilities relating to Project 
management and implementation, finance and procurement, the Borrower shall, through 
MOET, retain the services of consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II, Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall, through MOET, by October 31 of each year, commencing October 
31, 1999, furnish to the Association for its concurrence a proposed annual work 
program, including a training plan and budget for Project activities to be implemented 
in the following calendar year, and by December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 
1999, review with the Association progress on the implementation of the Project. 
5.
The Borrower shall, through MOET, by July 31 of each year, commencing July 31, 
1999, carry out annual monitoring and evaluation of the performance of all higher 
education institutions in Vietnam, including financial and academic operations of the 
same, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.  The results of 
such monitoring and evaluation shall be furnished to the Association and to each of 
Page  12
the higher education institutions surveyed.
6.
The Borrower shall, through MOET: 
(a)
by November 30 of each year, commencing November 30, 1999, carry out on a 
sample basis, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, technical audits 
of the Quality Improvement Grants under Part B of the Project;
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, the results of 
such technical audits by not later than January 31 of each year, the first of such 
report shall be furnished by January 31, 2000; and
(c)
by July 31 of each year, commencing July 31, 2000, furnish to the 
Association under terms of reference  acceptable to the Association, a comprehensive 
report on all Quality Improvement Grant operations, including grant applications, 
rankings thereof, recommendations for awards, actual awards and implementation of 
previous QIGs. 
7.
The Borrower shall, concurrently with the report mentioned in paragraph 8(c) of 
this Schedule, furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a draft of its 
national policy for the higher education subsector, including provisions on (i) 
pricing policy in higher education; (ii) changes in institutions’ autonomy and 
accountability; and (iii) quality assurance and performance monitoring of higher 
education institutions, and thereafter adopt such policy in accordance with a 
time-table satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by  March 31, 1999, establish and maintain operational procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, to adequately monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory  to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, 
commencing April 30, 1999, furnish to the Association quarterly reports on the 
implementation of the Project, during the preceding calendar quarter, satisfactory to 
the Association;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about  October 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date. The report should also 
identify the source of funding and amounts required to cover recurrent costs after the 
Project completion date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by December 1, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means in respect of: (i) the Project 
Special Account, Categories 1, 3, 4 and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Grant Special Account, Category 2 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  13
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means in respect of: (i) the Project 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $1,500,000; and (ii) the Grant Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $3,500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount in respect of: (A) the Project 
Special Account, equivalent to $1,000,000; and (B) the Grant Special Account, 
equivalent to $2,500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for: (1) Categories 
1, 3, 4 and 5 shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000 and (2) 
Category 2 shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  14
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Quality Improvement Grants
1.
Each Quality Improvement Grant under Part B of the Project shall be made by the 
Borrower, through MOET:
(a) 
to a QIG Grantee which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual in respect of the organization, management, staffing and other resources 
required for the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project; and
(b)
to finance no more than 95% of the cost of a Sub-project that meets the 
technical, cost-effective, and educational standards and criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, and for which the QIG Grantee has a satisfactory plan for the 
carrying out of such Sub-project.
2.
Subject to paragraph 1 above:
(a)
the first Quality Improvement Grant to a QIG Grantee shall be in Dong or 
Dollars in an amount not greater than $500,000 equivalent (a QIG-A Grant);
Page  15
(b)
the second Quality Improvement Grant to a QIG Grantee shall be to a QIG-A 
recipient in Dong or Dollars in an amount not greater than $750,000 equivalent (a 
QIG-B Grant); and
(c)
each subsequent Quality Improvement Grant to a QIG Grantee shall be to a 
QIG-B recipient in Dong or Dollars (a QIG-C Grant) and the aggregate amount of all 
Quality Improvement Grants to a single QIG Grantee institution shall be in an amount 
not greater than the $800 equivalent per full time equivalent student enrolled in such 
institution.
3.
The Borrower shall cause the QIG Grantees to:  (a) carry out the Sub-projects 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, higher education, management and technical practices; and (b) provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Sub-project.
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, in each case in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 5 below, for its prior approval:
(a)
each contract for the award of a QIG-A Grant; and
(b)
the contract for the award of the first QIG-C Grant to each QIG Grantee 
and the contract for the award of each subsequent QIG-C Grant in amount greater than 
$1,500,000 equivalent.
5.
Quality Improvement Grants shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual and on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with each of the QIG Grantees or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, including the 
right to:
(a)
require the QIG Grantee to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound educational, technical, financial and 
managerial standards and practices, to maintain adequate records and accounts and to 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Sub-project;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices, provided, however, that (A) contracts for goods estimated to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I, 
Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (B) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent and contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II, Part B of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
require the QIG Grantee to maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis and in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Sub-project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
require that the QIG Grantee shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the QIG Grantee to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
Page  16
financial condition of the QIG Grantee, and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the QIG Grantee to the use of the 
proceeds of the Quality Improvement Grant or Grants upon failure by such QIG Grantee 
to perform its obligations under any of its contracts with the Borrower for the award 
of a Quality Improvement Grant.
