Report No. PID1429
Project Name                     Vietnam-Higher Education Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       VNPE4828
Borrower                         Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education and Training
49 Dai Co Viet St.,
Hanoi, Vietnam
Vice MinisterVu Ngoc Hai (National
Project Director)
Mr. Truong Thanh Hai (Manager)
Project Coordination Unit
Phone:    (84)-4-869-3227
Fax:      (84)-4-869-3229
Date of this PID                 September 7, 1998
Date of the initial PID          January 31, 1994
Appraisal                        June 1997
Project Board Date               August 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Higher education in Vietnam has been similar to that of the former
Soviet Union with a multiplicity of small mono-disciplinary institutions with
limited linkage between teaching and research. The structures and procedures
have been inherited from the era of central planning when higher education was
segmented by economic sectors with many specialized institutions, each with
little autonomy of its own, reporting to a particular line ministry. Between
1993 and 1995, total higher education enrollments grew by 117% (from 162,000
to 354,000), while expenditures grew by 63%. The number of institutions
dropped from 120+ to 110 with the consolidation of several public institutions
into larger multi-disciplinary institutions (called national and regional
universities). Higher education expenditures in 1995 were funded from three
main sources: (i) student charges 14%; (ii) institutional production,
contracts and other revenue 3%; and (iii) government current and capital
grants 83%. Tuition and accommodation fees are modest. Consequently, during
the last few years the HE system has become more reliant upon public funding
for its operation.
2.      Analysis undertaken jointly by government and the World Bank agrees
on the two central issues: the inability of the higher education system to
respond to the demands of the market economy, and the low efficiency and
quality of higher education. The system's poor response to the economy stems
from its inherited vertical organizational structure. Even though the
linkages to sector ministries have been loosened, central control over input
norms or curriculum content leaves most institutions with little freedom to
adapt their training and respond to the needs of the market economy through
institutional innovations and adjustments. No responsibility has been placed



on institutions to monitor economic requirements and to devise their own
responses. The real need is to reform processes and to promote innovation and
institutional initiatives through greater institutional autonomy, diversity
and flexibility.
3.      Low efficiency in higher education results from the small size of
higher education institutions. Compartmentalization has inhibited the
realization of economies of scale. There are duplications of academic courses
between neighboring institutions and sub-optimal use of physical and staff
resources. Staffing norms are rigid and employment terms are not under the
control of the institutions. Rationalization is needed to make efficiency
gains. The project will promote institutional mergers through funding for
improvements and quality. The issue of the low quality of university
education stems from a perception that graduates that are ill-equipped for the
market economy. At present, teaching in the universities emphasizes the
awareness of facts over the use of knowledge for problem solving. The
pedagogical emphasis is upon fixed skills tailored to a particular segment of
the labor market served by the institution, whereas what is required are
dynamic skills i.e., how to interpret and apply information to new contexts.
The project will support a change in the pedagogical emphasis from mastery of
the facts to problem-solving under uncertainty.
4.      The strategy to address these issues is the creation of a system of
selective quality improvement grants for qualifying universities. The project
strategy supports revisions in the allocation of public funds to higher
education so as to provide incentives to maximize off-budget revenues and to
reward performance or qualitative improvements. These improvements will be
accompanied by a move to greater institutional autonomy, while at the same
time strengthening institutional accountability.
5.      Government Strategy:   Recognizing that higher education no longer
responds to Vietnam's needs, government has embarked on reform. Tertiary
education policy changes have included: (a) introduction of semi-public and
non-public tertiary education; (b) tuition fees and charges for students,
coupled with an extensive range of student scholarships; (c) encouragement of
entrepreneurial activity by institutions to raise additional non-government
revenues; (d) reducing the system's segmentation with the consolidation of the
responsibility for pedagogical functions of all institutions under a single
authority; (e) experimentation with a new unified structure of education to
promote coherence in course structures, qualifications and standards; (f)
preliminary testing of a credit system of pedagogical organization; and (g)
limited consolidation of a few existing mono-disciplinary institutions into
multi-disciplinary universities.
Project
6.      Project Objectives:   The long-term development objective of the
proposed project is to improve higher education's level of coordination and
coherence at the system level as well as build capacity, accountability and
autonomy at the institutional level. The project aims to: (i) increase
coherence, flexibility and responsiveness of higher education to the changing
demands of society and the market economy; (ii) improve efficiency and
resource utilization in higher education; and (iii) improve quality of
curriculum, teaching, learning and research in higher education.
7.      Project Description:   The project supports improvement of the
- 2-



centralized functions needed for improved governance, oversight, planning and
administration of the higher education system at both the system-wide and the
institutional levels. In addition, the project provides support, on a
competitive basis, for qualitative improvements in teaching and learning at
selected higher education institutions.
The Project consists of the following three components:
Component 1:     support for system wide and institutional level improvements in
policy formulation, performance monitoring, quality assessment and
accreditation, resource allocation and management, preparation of
institutional regulations and investment support for computerized
administration in all universities. Support will take the form of capacity
building, training, administrative tools and related equipment and technical
assistance.
Component 2:     support for quality and teaching/learning improvement measures
in selected qualifying universities with quality improvement grants. Grants
will support sub-projects in the areas of : staff training, pedagogical and
learning inputs, books, equipment, development of common services (libraries,
documentation and computing centers). Awards of grants for sub-projects is
linked to university performance monitored under component 1.
Component 3:     improved implementation capacity of MOET in the areas of
coordination, procurement, contract management, accounting and monitoring
project effectiveness.
8.      Project Costs and Financing:   The total project cost is estimated at
US$103.8 million. Of this, the IDA credit would provide US$83.3 million, the
government and universities would provide US$20.4 million. Approximately
US$21.8 million of the total project costs would support the first component
aimed at capacity building actions for the higher education system, US$79.2
million would finance actions under the second component, and a further US$2.8
million would finance the project management and coordination.
9.      Implementation:   The project will be implemented over a period of
six years (start-up will be in November 1998, completion December 31, 2004).
Overall coordination of all executing agencies will be through a project-
specific coordination unit created inside the Ministry of Education and
Training (PCU/MOET). The PCU will be responsible for all project accounting,
the implementation of component #1 activities, the oversight of the use of all
quality improvement grants awarded under component #2, and it will provide
purchasing and procurement advisory services to universities. Responsibility
for implementation of grants under component #2 will lie with universities
assisted by various departments of the MOET. Project oversight (policy
guidance etc.,) will be the responsibility of a Steering Committee, chaired by
the minister of education and comprising ministers, vice-ministers and other
similar ranked officials from SBV, MOET, MPI, MoF, MOSTE, and rectors of
selected national and regional universities, and a representative of
employers.
10.     Sustainability:   Institutional Sustainability:   The project
contributes to the overall sustainability of higher education through system
and institution wide capacity building. Component #1 builds capacity in
system-wide central functions (governance, policy analysis and formulation,
- 3 -



oversight, monitoring, quality control, planning and management). Component
#1, together with Component #2, also builds capacity in the institutional
functions of university management, administration and planning. The third
component strengthens implementation capacity for the Ministry of Education
and Training. This project strategy will leave government with expertise and
procedures that will endure well beyond the life of the project. Financial
Sustainability:   Project funds are 10. of the state's total public expenditure
on higher education during the life of the project. Nevertheless, there is no
trade-off between the allocation of public resources to higher education
through regular channels and through the quality improvement grants under the
project. The projected macroeconomic growth indicates that both channels will
grow in real terms throughout the life of the project. Credit funds play an
important role in providing the time needed to allow government to channel
close to 3t of public expenditures on higher education to universities through
quality improvement grants. Simulations show that the government, from its
own resources, could maintain the quality improvement grants after the closure
of the credit.
11.     Lessons learned from past operations:   The proposed project would be
the first higher education project and only the second World Bank education
project to be implemented in Vietnam. However, several lessons can be drawn
from similar projects in other parts of the world. Higher education projects
in Hungary and Argentina have established improvement grants for eligible
universities to provide incentives for improvements in quality, efficiency
gains and transparency in funding mechanisms of higher education institutions.
The Argentina and Indonesian projects have components that emphasize
(i) institutional development; (ii) improvements in planning and management;
and (iii) increasing financial and academic accountability. Lessons learned
from the experiences of the above projects indicate that to address similar
issues of higher education's quality, efficiency and responsiveness to the
economy, project design should include several of the strategies/components
used in the above projects, with the necessary adaptations to the Vietnamese
context.
12.     Poverty:  The project would address poverty concerns indirectly.    It
would support revisions in higher education pricing policy and would assist
government re-examine its present policies for student tuition fees,
scholarships (merit and welfare) and student loans.
13.     Environment:   The project would have no adverse impact on the
environment.
14.     Program Objective Categories:   The POC is 100l related to Human
Resources Development.
15.     Benefits:  First, by improving the quality and relevance of higher
education, the operation will contribute significantly to the upgrading of
labor, thereby improving the linkage with the labor market during a time of
high growth, structural change and rapid transition. Second, by working on
the pricing policy for higher education, the operation will contribute to
growth with equity, freeing-up resources for use at other levels of education,
redressing the way government subsidizes education and making more efficient
use of public investments in education. Third, by redefining the role of
Government in higher education and by increasing institutional autonomy, the
operation will reinforce structural change and develop the institutions needed
- 4 -



to pursue the move to a market oriented economy. Fourth, the operation will
also contribute to improvements in efficiency, reducing the cost of higher
education graduates and taking advantage of the economies of scale by
consolidating institutions. It will also mainstream the monitoring of the
financial operations and regular measurement of academic performance in higher
education institutions that was started during sector work, thereby providing
the baseline measurements needed to guide regulation, pricing policy and the
allocation of public expenditure to higher education.
16.     Risks:  The risks associated with the project have been reduced
through the reformulation of the project concept and a refocus of project
scope.  One potential risk is that instability in the overall macroeconomic
situation could disturb both public spending on HE and growth in employment of
HE graduates. This is a medium risk, beyond the scope of this project, but
one that will be monitored through the Bank's macroeconomic dialogue with the
country. A further risk is that rapid growth in private sector and industry,
coupled with attractive private sector remuneration packages, will lead
academic staff to quit the universities and would contribute to instability
within higher education. Government is currently analyzing conditions of
service for academic staff and changes that would reinforce the ability of
universities to supplement academic staff salaries from contract earning and
off-budget revenues.
17.     Weak support from the academic community for HE reform goals and
poor use of the project's capacity building is not seen as a major risk.
University managers are directly involved in the current goal setting exercise
that is part of project preparation and they are responsible for the design of
capacity building programs and the selection of staff for training programs.
Finally, higher levels of government and the MOET might block growth in
university level autonomy, and there might be interference, or a lack of
transparency, in allocating improvement grants to qualifying institutions.
These risks are being addressed through high-level policy dialogue with
government and party organs. In addition, the project documentation will
specify award criteria and Bank will monitor the application of these criteria
for university grants through regular detailed supervision. The project mid-
term review will assess the goals of the HE reform and will revise the grant
award criteria in the light of progress towards these goals.
18.     Capacity Building Inputs:   The project will provide external technical
assistance and fund short-term consultant contracts and three medium-term in-
country advisory posts. Short-term external assistance is required in the
areas of:
(i)     institutional planning for universities;
(ii)    preparation of university charters and internal regulations;
(iii)   academic peer review in specialist subject areas;
(v)     use of software for administration of universities.
The three medium-term in-country advisory posts in the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), will be for:
(a)     a senior advisor in project management and implementation;
(b)     a senior financial advisor; and
(c)     a purchasing and procurement advisor.
The external technical assistance and consultant contracts will be linked to
overseas fellowships and study tours for senior Vietnamese ministry and
- 5 -



university personnel, and a large variety of local training and in-country
workshops. External assistance consultant personnel will assist in the
preparation and delivery of such training.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
- 6 -



