                   Document of
                 The World Bank




                                          Report No: ICR0000561



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-31260)



                       ON A

                     CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 83.3 MILLION


                      TO THE

       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                      FOR A

         HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT



                 February 21, 2008



          Human Development Sector Unit
              Vietnam Country Unit
            East Asia and Pacific Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


              (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 29, 2007)


                     Currency Unit = Vietnamese ng (VND)

                      VND 10,000 = US$ 1.62

                         US$ 1.00 = VND 16,110


                     GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                        January 1   ­     December 31




                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
COREHEG Higher Education Sector Group
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
GA      QIG Grant Agreement
GoV     Government of Vietnam
HERA    Higher Education Reform Agenda
HEI     Higher education institution
HEP1    First Higher Education Project
HEP2    Second Higher Education Project
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation status and results report
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoET    Ministry of Education and Training
MTR     Mid-term review
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
ODA     Official Development Assistance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAU     Proposal Assessment Unit
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
QIG     Quality improvement grant

Vice President:         James W. Adams

Country Director:       Ajay Chhibber

Sector Manager:         Christopher J. Thomas

Project Team Leader:    Thanh Thi Mai

ICR Team Leader:        Thanh Thi Mai

                                              VIETNAM

                                 Higher Education Project




                                             CONTENTS

Data Sheet

   A. Basic Information

   B. Key Dates

   C. Ratings Summary

   D. Sector and Theme Codes

   E. Bank Staff

   F. Results Framework Analysis

   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

   H. Restructuring

   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1

 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5

 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18

 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19

 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22

 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24

 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26

 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 36

 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37

 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 40

 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43

 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 44

 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 45

 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46

 MAP

A. Basic Information

Country:                Vietnam               Project Name:          VN-HIGHER EDUC.
Project ID:             P004828               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31260
ICR Date:               02/26/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     SOC REP OF VIET
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     NAM
Original Total
                        XDR 62.1M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 56.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education and Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/10/1996    Effectiveness:         03/01/1999        03/01/1999
Appraisal:             05/30/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/27/1998    Mid-term Review:                         05/17/2002
                                     Closing:               06/30/2005        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              4                  3
Tertiary education                                           96                  97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                         Primary            Primary
Improving labor markets                                    Secondary         Secondary
Social analysis and monitoring                             Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                   James W. Adams
Country Director:        Ajay Chhibber                    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:          Christopher J. Thomas            Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:     Thanh Thi Mai                    Thanh Thi Mai
ICR Team Leader:         Thanh Thi Mai
ICR Primary Author:



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to : (a) increase coherence,
flexibility and responsiveness of the higher education sub-sector to the changing demands
of society and the market economy; (b) improve efficiency and resource utilization in the
higher education sub-sector; and       (c) improve the quality of curriculum, teaching,
learning and research in higher education institutions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revision was made in the project development objectives




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Proportion of participating HEIs using new information collected (from surveys)
                to guide overall decision-making and revisions in strategic plans and curricula.
                                                                               187 out of 210
                                                                               (90%) of HEIs
                No information available                                       provided
Value           (prior to 1999 Higher                                          information to the
quantitative or Education Institution       100%                               2005 survey and the
Qualitative)    Monitoring Surveys and                                         MoET uses the
                Graduate Tracer Surveys)                                       information to
                                                                               define university
                                                                               admissions quotas
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments        Not all HEIs participated in the project (over 120 HEIs were set-up during the
(incl. %        life of the project). Nevertheless an actual value of 90% participation in the
achievement)    survey shows that this has been a key tool for decision making in the sub-sector.

Indicator 2 :   Proportion of HE graduates gaining employment within 12 months of graduation
                date
                                                                               The 2002 graduate
                                                                               tracer survey shows
                                                                               94% employment
Value                                       85% (over life of                  within 12 months of
quantitative or No information available                                       graduation. LSMS
Qualitative)                                project)                           data for 2004 show
                                                                               95% employment
                                                                               of graduates aged
                                                                               18-24
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments        The survey was held twice but not repeated as the MOET disputed the design and
(incl. %        results of the second survey. Other data sources show little change from the
achievement)    figure of 95% during the life of the project. Achievement of the target is 112%
Indicator 3 :   Increase in average size of HEIs

                Average size: 5,330                                            The average

Value           students (ie. 4.050 in      10% increase                       institutional size

quantitative or mono-disciplinary HEIs, (over life of                          has reached 6,416

Qualitative)    and 6,911 in multi-         project)                           by 2005 (11,414 for

                disciplinary HEIs)                                             universities and
                                                                               2,260 for colleges).
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                         06/30/2007

Comments        The target value of this indicator was surpassed as the Government #grew#

(incl. %        higher education at a much faster rate thereby addressing the issue of high-cost,

achievement)    small, specialized institutions through this rapid growth strategy. The average
                increase is 20%
Indicator 4 :   Proportion of "social scholarships" awarded to students from lowest three income



                                                 iii

               quintiles
Value                                                                         Detailed
quantitative or No information available 70%                                  information was
Qualitative)                                                                  unavailable
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments        This indicator was problematic throughout the project as no reliable data on
(incl. %        social scholarship was obtained. University surveys showed 11% of enrolled
achievement)    students receive fee waivers and/or social support

Indicator 5 :   Proportion of teaching staff in participating HEIs with postgraduate
                qualifications
                                                                              Staff with post-grad
Value                                                                         qualification in
quantitative or 37%                         45%                               2005 was 47.2% for
Qualitative)                                                                  all HEIs and 53%
                                                                              for universities
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target value of this indicator was surpassed (achievement of the target is

achievement)    119%)

Indicator 6 :   Student repetition rate, student dropout rate

Value                                                                         1.4% repetition and

quantitative or 1.4% repetition;            Improvement                       3% drop out was

Qualitative)    1.2% drop-out                                                 reported by the
                                                                              2005 survey
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments        This indicator was not met as repetition & drop-out rates fluctuate. This
(incl. %        fluctuation can be explained by the rapid expansion of enrollment (more than
achievement)    10% annual increase)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Proportion of participating HEIs having medium-term institutional strategic plans
Value           No HEIs known to be                                           More than 60 HEIs
(quantitative   engaged in strategic        100%                              have prepared their
or Qualitative) planning                                                      stragegic plans
Date achieved 03/01/1999                    06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Proportion of participating HEI having charters and regulations (for autonomy
                and accountability) according to Government models
Value           No autonomy or
(quantitative   accountability, since all   100%                              None
or Qualitative) HEIs under direct



                                                 iv

               authority of central
               government ministry (or
               provincial authorities)
Date achieved 03/01/1999                  06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The model charter had been developed and approved by the Prime Minister but

achievement)   guidelines on the roadmap for adoption have not been elaborated

Indicator 3 :  Proportion of participating HEIs having obtained QIG A and QIG B
                                          90% (QIG A),

Value                                     67% (QIG B),

(quantitative  No QIGs (before project)   50% (QIG C)                        100%
or Qualitative)                           [Modified at MTR
                                          by GOV
                                          Regulation]
Date achieved 03/01/1999                  06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       In financing terms, the total QIG funds awarded to universities increase by more

achievement)   than 10%

Indicator 4 :  Proportion of participating HEIs conducting regular reviews of curricula and
               course materials
Value
(quantitative  No information available 100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1999                  06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       All QIG universities report having their curricula reviewed and updated, albeit no

achievement)   information is available on the quality of the revisions.

Indicator 5 :  Share of HEIs' financing coming from off-budget sources, including tuition fees
Value                                     Increase (over life                47% off-budget
(quantitative  21%                                                           revenue is reported
or Qualitative)                           of project)                        for 2005-2006
Date achieved 12/31/1995                  06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       100% achieved
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  Number of participating HEIs using a computerized administrative system by
               project end
                                                                             59 HEIs operated

Value                                                                        integrated

(quantitative  No computer network or     60 public HEIs                     administrative

or Qualitative)system exist                                                  softwares at their
                                                                             institutions (survey
                                                                             2006)
Date achieved 03/01/1999                  06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments       The 95% achievement of this indicator is not the result of the project as HEIs
(incl. %       already developed or purchased these softwares and did not need the project
achievement)   support for this activity




                                               v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
 1    12/16/1998        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 2    05/19/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.00
 3    10/05/1999        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             1.00
 4    01/14/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.00
 5    07/26/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               3.54
 6    02/05/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               6.34
 7    05/08/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               6.34
 8    12/14/2001        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             8.39
 9    05/03/2002        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           11.97
10    06/27/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             13.69
11    12/29/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             16.47
12    06/23/2003        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           18.69
13    12/08/2003        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           22.60
14    05/09/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             25.84
15    12/20/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             36.57
16    06/07/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             41.96
17    02/23/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             54.22
18    03/27/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             72.85



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The preparation of this project was started in the mid-1990s and appraisal took place in
mid-1997. At that time the context was characterized by Vietnam's major transition from
a centrally-planned to a market-based economic approach. The key economic and policy
changes, launched ten years earlier by the Doi Moi reforms, had led to the expansion of
the economy (annual GDP growth in the period 1989-92 was 7%) and had brought down
annual inflation from 400% in 1988 to 5.2% by 1993.          Nevertheless, in 1993 the per
capita GNP was still below US$200, and poverty incidence was high (the average
poverty rate in 1993 was 58.1%). And while the GoV's policy orientation and overall
development strategy clearly stressed transition, the majority of institutions and public
servants, including those in the education system and the universities, remained tied to
the centrally planned approach and had yet to change their operating practices to match
the new orientation.

At the start of project preparation, there were a total of 110 higher education institutions
(HEIs), of which 65 were universities and 45 colleges, with a total student enrollment of
354,103. By 1998 enrollments had grown to 459,724 in a total of 130 institutions but
Vietnam's higher education system was still closely modeled on that of the Soviet system
with a multiplicity of small, specialized, mono-disciplinary institutes, each attached to a
Government ministry according to their field of specialization. Universities were not
autonomous: student enrollments were centrally determined and based upon plan targets;
course content and course offerings were subject to central approval, and teaching and
research were separated with research being conducted outside the universities in
specialized establishments. The main issues in higher education included: (a) economic
inefficiencies caused by the large number of small mono-disciplinary institutions; (b) a
limited resource base for universities with little cost-recovery; (c) a fragmented system
with structures and practices inherited from the command economy era, and very limited
autonomy and accountability of HEIs; and (d) a lack of responsiveness to the changing
needs of the transition economy.

The Government of Vietnam (GoV) had recognized that higher education had a
significant contribution to make to the Doi Moi reforms and through Decree 90/CP it had
started to address the issues in higher education with: (a) the merger of a few specialized
HEIs into multidisciplinary universities (two national universities and three regional
universities were formed to improve efficiency each through the merger of several
existing smaller institutions); (b) the introduction of student tuition fees while providing
merit and need-based scholarships and student loans to ensure equitable access; (c) the
approval of the establishment of semi-public and non-public institutions; and (d) the
adoption of a "learning unit" coursework system.

Rationale for Bank investment: World Bank support for investment in higher education
was consistent with the Country Assistant Strategy (CAS) objectives of assisting
Vietnam's transition to a market economy and alleviating poverty through human
development. The project was expected to: (a) provide advanced skills relevant for the
market economy through higher education reform; and (b) improve cost-efficiency and
equity within the higher education sector. IDA's support to implement the GoV reform


                                              1

program in other fields and to translate reforms into operational strategies and action
plans made it an attractive partner to the GoV. The Bank had acquired a reputation for
providing impartial and effective policy advice in the area of public finance and
education policy, and it had acquired detailed knowledge on higher education through a
comprehensive study of education sector financing and a 1994 policy paper. In addition,
this project complemented the Primary Education Project, which addressed the issue of
access to basic education in 36 provinces.         Finally, other members of the donor
community had prioritized their support to basic education, and were unavailable to assist
the reform of higher education.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project had three development objectives: (a) to increase coherence, flexibility and
responsiveness of higher education to the changing demands of society and the market
economy; (b) to improve efficiency and resource utilization in higher education; and (c)
to improve the quality of curriculum, teaching, learning and research in higher education
institutions.

Nine performance indicators were specified and from these the following six indicators
were designated as the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs):

· The percentage of participating universities that use the project survey information to
    guide their institutional strategic plans;

· The percentage of university graduates gaining employment within 12 months of
    graduation;

· The increase in the average size of higher education institutions;
· The proportion of social scholarships allocated to students from the three lowest
    income quintiles;

· The proportion of university teaching staff with postgraduate qualifications; and
· Improvement in the average flow-rates of students and their graduation rate.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

Throughout the life of the project both the MoET and the participating HEIs continued to
focus on the original project objectives and consensus on meeting these objectives
remained high. The project allowed for sufficient flexibility to respond to minor changes
during implementation within the context of the stated development objectives and
project components. Thus, neither the project development objectives nor the project
components were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

Target population: The project was designed to benefit the public and private higher
education institutions and universities in Vietnam and the student/staff population within
them (it did not include the provincial teacher training colleges).




                                              2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Higher Education Project had three components to meet the objectives of the project.

Project Component 1: Capacity Building and Institutional Development (base cost
US$2.12 million).

    The sub-component "System­level planning, coordination, and monitoring" aimed to
    support the creation of an enabling regulatory environment and provide tools for the
    central agencies to carry out their goal-setting, monitoring, guidance and quality
    control functions. It covered five sets of activities:

        Higher education policy development supported the development of the
        Government's policy statement on higher education reform and continued policy
        analysis and formation throughout project implementation.

        Performance monitoring of HE aimed to measure the financial academic and
        administrative operations of all higher education institutions.

        Quality assurance and accreditation aimed to establish a Higher Education Quality
        Assessment Center to undertake quality audits and provide objective assessments
        of system and institutional quality of performance.

        Funding formula and pricing policy supported an inter-ministerial working party
        to examine pricing policy and reform of the funding / allocation mechanism in
        higher education.

        University Regulations and Charters supported the preparation of university
        regulations and charters.

    The sub-component "Institutional-level planning improvements" aimed to improve
    efficiency and strengthen institutional-level planning through five related activities:

        University Strategic Plans. This activity was to support the development of
        strategic planning by helping institutions to prepare and revise their strategic
        plans that set measurable targets of efficiency and quality improvement.

        University Planning Offices aimed to support strategic planning activities,

        Graduate Tracer Surveys, aimed to monitor the linkages between the labor market
        and performance of university graduates. By using a longitudinal survey
        methodology, universities were to survey their recent graduates and prepare a
        report showing the proportion of graduates entering the labor market.

        University Career Advisory Services helped higher education institutions to create
        "careers advisory services" to strengthen the linkage between teaching/learning
        and the needs of the rapidly evolving labor market.

    The sub-component "Information technology" sought to develop information
    technology in higher education institutions with the provision of University
    Administration Software.

Project Component 2: Quality Improvement Grants QIGs (base cost US$63.74
million)




                                               3

This component consisted of grants to support quality improvements in selected
universities. Quality Improvement Grants were to be awarded ­ on a competitive basis ­
to support programs proposed by higher education institutions.

        Grant Proposal Assessment supported the creation and operation of the Proposal
        Assessment Unit (PAU) that would undertake the assessment of QIG applications
        (eligibility, evaluation, grading and rank, and award processing).

        Specialized Subject Review provided support to the PAU with specialized
        technical and academic knowledge necessary for assessing QIGs applications.

        Quality Improvement Awards covered three grant categories ("A", "B", and "C").
        The A grants awarded to a university would have a maximum value of US$ 0.5
        million. The B grants awarded would have a maximum grant value of US$ 0.75
        million. The third and all subsequent C awards would not cumulatively exceed
        $800 per FTE student.

Project Component 3: Project Management and Coordination (base cost US$2.33
million). This component provided the coordination, implementation, procurement,
contract management, and accounting functions and related advisory services needed to
implement the project.

        Project Coordination Unit. was responsible for managing project accounts,
        monitoring the agreed performance indicators, and for reporting to Government
        and the Bank on project implementation and performance.

        Procurement Advisory Services administered the procurement and purchases
        under Component 1 and advised universities awarded a QIG so that procurement
        under each QIG was made in accordance with agreed procedures.

        Application Advisory Services allowed universities to call for advice on the
        design and the preparation of QIG applications.

1.6 Revised Components

The project was not restructured during its implementation. Hence, no major revision
was made to the project components. Minor adjustments were made to the Information
Technology sub-component. Instead of providing software for university administration,
the project assisted in the creation of a video-conferencing network linking five
universities and the two MoET offices. It also supported the installation of multimedia
teaching classrooms at 46 HEIs and provided basic IT equipment for presentations to a
further 91 HEIs.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the design, scope, scale, and the implementation arrangements
for the project during its implementation. However, significant changes were made in the
project schedule to take into account the delays that accumulated at start-up and in a later
phase of the project. These are discussed in more detail under part 2 of this report.

The closing date for the project was extended twice. The first extension from June 2005
to December 2006 (18 months) was made in mid 2005 to address delays in
implementation. These delays had been brought about by (i) the slow start-up, (ii)


                                               4

repeated changes in the key project management personnel, and (iii) a period where
following a new Government directive there was some confusion over the responsibility
for Government's contract approval processes. A second extension from December 2006
until June 2007 (6 months) was made in December 2006 to allow the completion of
ongoing contracts from the final batch of quality improvement grants (QIGs).

Change in Credit amount: The original credit amount was SDR 62.1 million, equivalent
at the time of appraisal to US$83.3 million. As the US$ weakened during the
implementation period, the original credit amount valued in terms of US$ rose to
US$ 96.9 million. At the closure of the credit a total of SDR 56.8 million had been
disbursed (equivalent to US$ 88.7 million), and the remaining undisbursed SDR 5.3
million of the credit will be cancelled.

A comparison of the original and actual amounts by disbursement category and
component are shown in the following tables. The major reallocation was made from
"unallocated" to Grants B and C.

                                                                        Millions SDR

     Disbursement category                    Appraisal    Actual       Percent of
                                              estimate     amount       Appraisal

     Goods                                           4.100       3.008             73

     Grants "A"                                     10.100     11.986             118

     Grants "B"                                      9.000     11.660             130

     Grants "C"                                     22.300     26.906             120

     Consultants' services                           2.400       2.051             85

     Fellowships/Study tours                         0.700       0.176             25

     Implementation & Op costs                       3.000       0.403             13

     Unallocated                                    10.500       0.000

     Total                                          62.100     56.796             91.5

                                                                 Millions US$

     Project Components                       Appraisal    Actual       Percent of
                                              estimate     amount       Appraisal

     Capacity Building & Institutional               18.15       14.91            82%
     Development

     University Quality Improvement                  63.74       81.48           128%
     Grants

     Project Management &                             2.33        2.36           101%
     Coordination

     Contingencies                                   19.53        0.00            n.a.

     Total                                          103.75       98.75            95%



                                            5

A breakdown of the project costs by sub-component is given in Annex 1 of this report.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

This was the first World Bank project for higher education in Vietnam and only the
second in the education sector (the other supported primary education and was the first
World Bank project in Vietnam since lending resumed in the early 1990s). In the course
of preparing the project the World Bank changed its project team. This resulted in a
revised project concept with greater linkage to analytical work and the incorporation of
best practice examples drawn from other Bank investments in higher education, but
resulted in a long preparation phase. The resulting design was a "process" project with a
sector loan approach that aimed at decentralizing greater management responsibility to
universities and --through a competitive funding mechanism-- improving the universities'
capacity, management and administration. The project incorporated important linkages
and sequencing across activities and made the implementation of the universities' sub-
projects dependent on completion of earlier capacity building activities. It was a complex
design that "back-loaded" the actual investments in the sub-projects and underestimated
the time needed for the earlier activities.

There was good participation from Department of Planning and Finance of MoET, who
led the preparation of the project for the Government, but design of the project's
implementation was not adequately linked to Department of Higher Education of MoET
and it also overestimated the borrower's implementation capacity. The project was not
subject to QAG review or rating at entry but was reviewed and endorsed by the Bank's
higher education sector group (COREHEG).

2.2 Implementation

The project was declared effective in March 1999 and closed at the end of June 2007
after a total implementation period of 100 months.              Frequent delays in project
implementation were encountered, especially at the start of the project. Factors that led
to delays included:

(a) This was the first higher education project of a new borrower. Thus, not surprisingly,
    none of the borrower's project staff at the central level or in the universities were
    familiar with the procedures needed for implementation of large externally funded
    development projects. There was confusion in some Government departments as to
    the role that they should play with some wishing to continue as a supplier of paid
    services to the project rather than acting as the beneficiary.

(b) Capacity was limited at all levels. Many of the staff appointed to the project came
    from universities but retained their previous affiliation and teaching duties; likewise
    the government personnel assigned to the project cumulated this new task with their
    ongoing responsibilities. Thus, few staff were available full-time and the project
    remuneration was insufficient incentive for them to relinquish their previous
    affiliations. Grant funds were not available to fund consultants to reinforce the



                                               6

    national implementation team. Consequently, like most projects of this era, a severe
    shortage of qualified and experienced staff plagued the project.

(c) There was high turnover in the key project management staff. During the project the
    Vice Minister responsible for higher education, who was the National Project
    Director, changed four times as did the manager of the Project Coordination Unit.
    With each change in management, a delay was incurred as the new incumbents
    familiarized themselves with the project and its implementation procedures.

(d) Bureaucratic risk aversion slowed the decision making process. The project design
    did not anticipate the delays brought about through multi-layered decision making
    that characterized the government administration at this period. Delays in decision
    making was compounded when changes in the GoV procurement regulations required
    approval of a project's procurement plan; and again when a redefinition of the
    responsibilities for management of ODA projects led to a large backlog of contracts
    awaiting the MoET's approval. After a period of hiatus, a high-level review by
    Government's central ministries was undertaken to address this issue and
    implementation speeded up. Both of the foregoing revisions to legislation improved
    management of investment projects but their introduction delayed the implementation
    of this project.

The total duration of the delays from the above factors is estimated between 24 and 33
months (limited capacity: 3-4 months; changes in project management: 8-12 months;
cumbersome decision making processes and changes in the legal environment for
projects: 8-12 months; sequencing issues inherent in the project design: 5 months).
However the total extension given to the project was 24 months.                Thus, actual
implementation of QIGs was slightly compressed into final 60 months of the project
rather than spread over 70 months as originally planned.

The counterpart to these delays in project implementation was the attention paid to
building capacity of the PCU and the universities. The project design required several
preliminary steps before procurement for the sub-projects could start. Thus, a series of
inter-related capacity-building activities were carried out to reinforce the central project
coordination unit and the universities (surveys, strategic institutional planning, drafting
grant proposals). Consequently, the first batch of QIG "A" grants was awarded sixteen
months after effectiveness and followed by an additional period of capacity building and
training for the universities in the use of competitive bidding procedures. Much of the
institutional development and capacity building was an integral part of the project and,
given the already lengthy period of project preparation, it is difficult to see how more of
this could have been placed under project preparation.

The unsatisfactory status of project implementation was flagged to the borrower on three
occasions each time for issues related to project management. First, seven months after
effectiveness it became evident that project start-up was very slow (staffing, counterpart
funds and office space for the PCU were problematic); second in November/December
2001, when remedial activities agreed upon earlier that year had not been carried out; and
third, one year after the mid-term review in the second half of 2003 when difficulties in
project management and delays in contract approvals resurfaced.




                                             7

The mid-term review (MTR) of the project (June 2002) assessed the validity of the
original project development objectives, the project components and weaknesses that had
characterized project implementation. The borrower's preparation for the MTR was
comprehensive, detailed and of good quality. The GoV confirmed that the original
development objectives remained valid and that the project components responded to
their needs. The MTR identified a delay in implementation of approximately twenty
months, but it did not restructure the project design or immediately extend the closing
date of the project. Instead it recommended that an extension of the closing date and
reallocation across disbursement categories should be addressed during regular
supervisions in a further 24 months (late 2004).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The results/outcomes approach to project design that is the present practice had not yet
been adopted and the project was designed using a logical-framework. The project
included M&E activities designed to provide regular information on key performance
indicators and outcomes. Baseline values for all the KPIs were established at the start of
the project and they were monitored and reported in the PCU quarterly implementation
reports.

Monitoring and evaluation of changes in the higher education system and the evolution of
graduate employment rates were incorporated under component one in two different
surveys that were to be conducted on an annual basis throughout the project. The
indicators of the performance and finances of the HEIs were assembled in a data series
covering 1998 to 2005, but because the survey was not conducted regularly, nor reviewed
in detail and disseminated to all HEIs, its M&E function was weakened. A similar
weakness occurred with the graduate tracer survey initially designed as a short, simple,
postal survey of recent graduates. A subsequent redesign of this survey to include
substantially more information led to very low response rates that compromised the
results and the graduate tracer survey was not subsequently repeated.

Monitoring and evaluation of the QIGs under component two was split into two parts ­
first a review of the application and award process, and second an evaluation of the QIG
outputs and results. The first of these allowed the project to monitor the distribution and
concentration of the QIG resources, and to evaluate whether the QIG assessment and
award process had followed the agreed procedures and regulations. The evaluation
confirmed that all parameters were being respected. Prior to the closure of the credit, the
PCU called upon external evaluators to review the short-term impact and outcomes of the
QIGs. Unfortunately, because of slippage in the implementation of the QIG "C" awards,
this evaluation was made before all the QIGs had been completed and the impact of the
investments could be ascertained with any degree of accuracy. The QIG grant agreements
required universities to specify KPIs and expected outcomes for each of their sub-projects
and to report these during sub-project implementation in their regular reports to the PCU.
This was done. However, because delays in the project implementation compressed the
time available to carry out the sub-projects, and because both the PCU and the
implementing units at university level were preoccupied with concerns related to
procurement, contract administration and sub-project implementation, in the run-up to the
closure of the credit these concerns took precedence over an evaluation of the outcomes



                                            8

and the impact of the QIGs. It should be noted that the outcomes and impact of education
projects lag behind the investments themselves and are often apparent only sometime
after the closure of the credit. Post-evaluation of the impact of the QIG "C" awards will
continue under a follow-on higher education project. This includes a review of the
university reports that summarize the outcomes and impact of the sub-projects supported
by the Quality Improvement Grants.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguard issues were triggered by this project. No environmental risks were forecast
at appraisal and the project was classified as a category "C" project.

Annual audit reports of the project accounts were received throughout the project
implementation.    These reports provided an unqualified auditors opinion but made
several suggestions to strengthen the management of the project. Bank supervision of the
project also reviewed the financial management of the project and increased attention was
paid to financial management during the life of the project. Following a supervision
mission of June 2006 the financial management was rated as unsatisfactory because of
weaknesses in internal controls at both the PCU and at the units implementing sub-
projects in HEIs. The project was required to address weaknesses in budgeting and
financial reporting. Finally, at the time of project closure, there were difficulties in
reconciling the draw down of funds for one expenditure category (QIG awards for type
"C") as there had been both a change in the disbursement percentage allowed for this
category and a misunderstanding as to how this should have been applied. The issue was
resolved with a retroactive amendment to the DCA.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

This project has provided several pathways for the further development of the higher
education system. First, and most importantly, capacity building under component one
led to (i) the adoption of the Government's "Higher Education Reform Agenda 2006-
2020" (HERA) with Prime Minister's decree 14/2005/NQ-CP of November 2005; and
(ii) the establishment of a quality assurance and accreditation process in higher education.
Second, through its support for HERA, the project has helped create a more robust higher
education sector and assisted in the adoption of government policies that call for the
continued expansion of the sub-sector with an increased role for private partnerships and
provision (40% of enrollments in higher education are expected in non-public higher
education institutions by 2020). Third, data collected by the financial and performance
monitoring surveys in component one has been used to underpin the 2007 sector analysis
resulting in the Bank report entitled "Vietnam: Higher Education and Tertiary Skills for
Growth".      Fourth, these policy frameworks and the sector analysis serve as the
cornerstone for the design of the two new Bank investments in higher education.

The new Second Higher Education Project (HEP2), approved by the World Bank in June
2007, picks up the key policy themes of HERA (governance, financing and quality
assurance) with a view to operationalize these policy directions and provide a further
grant scheme to support innovation in training and research at universities. The lessons
from the first higher education project have been incorporated in HEP2: for example, the
MoET's departments responsible for system governance, financing and quality assurance



                                              9

will lead the implementation of the policy development component. The grant scheme in
HEP2 has been designed to avoid delays in the award of grants, and it will use an update
of HEP1's grant instruments. The first Higher Education Project (HEP1) has financed
the preparation of the new grant proposals for HEP2 and the activities of the assessment
panel, thus partially completing the award of HEP2 grants prior to effectiveness.
Responsibility for grant implementation is decentralized to the university level.

A further higher education project, the third, is under preparation. It is tentatively called
"Developing Advanced Institutions for Higher Order Capacity", and it is expected to be a
development policy loan (DPL) that will seek to institutionalize revisions in the policies
for governance (giving greater autonomy to the universities) for financing (with resources
following students including student loans and scholarships) and quality (including
standardized testing and a flexible admissions system).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the project were highly relevant to the reform of higher education and
they remain relevant today, reflecting as they do the strategic priorities and the
Government's vision for higher education as laid out in the "Higher Education Reform
Agenda; 2006-2020". At the time of its design, the project identified the key issues in
higher education (the need for reform and the introduction of models of quality assurance,
governance, autonomy, efficiency and cost improvements adapted to the Vietnamese
context). The project objectives were derived directly from this analysis and good KPIs
were chosen to reflect them. Linkage between the PDOs and KPIs was generally good
with minor exceptions. Specifically, the goal of an improvement in the quality of learning
had only the KPI that measured the proportion of teaching staff with post-graduate
qualifications. It proved difficult to monitor the proportion of "social scholarships"
awarded to students from the lowest income quintiles because recording of such
scholarships -administered directly by each institution- was inconsistent. However, the
national living standards household surveys were used to reinforce the information
needed for the KPIs. Not surprisingly it was difficult to quantify the behavioral/attitudinal
changes needed for universities to become more responsive to market forces.

Given the political climate in Vietnam, the project design adopted the optimal strategy of
supporting capacity building and policy analysis to underpin system-wide changes in
higher education, especially in the areas where GoV was already working and wished to
makes changes. This led to making public universities more demand driven and
responsive to a market economy and did not explicitly include non-public HEIs. The
project design was aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy; it called on best
practice experience in higher education elsewhere and incorporated recent in-country
sector analysis. But despite this relevance to the country and the sector, the design of the
project was complex and required substantial institutional capacity building to assist in
the change away from the command economy era. It concentrated the majority of the
project investment resources on universities and made them responsible for the
preparation and implementation of all sub-projects so as to increase their effective
autonomy and make them more responsive. But in doing this, the project did not pay
sufficient attention to the MoET's Department of Higher Education. Together with a


                                            10

complicated project management structure and slow decision making, the price paid for
this approach was often a lack of attention or support from the Department of Higher
Education and the dilution of some of the policy aspects of the project.

Implementation of the project suffered from three things. As one of the first generation
of externally funded development projects undertaken in Vietnam, the limited knowledge
and experience of the national personnel of large-scale externally funded projects --with
their implementation and procurement procedures different from those of Government--
delayed implementation. Frequent changes in the Government's implementation team
and the shortage of full-time personnel had a negative impact on implementation. Finally,
the regulatory framework for the management of development assistance and the
procurement of goods and services was changed several times. However, by the end of
implementation, the capacity building and institutional development activities of the
project had succeeded in creating a pool of expertise ­both at the central level at in the
universities--that now provides the foundation for subsequent investments in higher
education to be made under better conditions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall Rating: Satisfactory

This section takes each of the three project development objectives in turn and reviews
the changes in the KPIs and the delivery of the expected outputs that are related to each
objective.

The first development objective was to increase the coherence, flexibility and
responsiveness of higher education to society's demands and the market economy. The
two KPIs linked to this first objective show a positive trend.         They were: (i) the
proportion of participating universities making use of the information from the
performance monitoring surveys of higher education to guide decision making and
institutional level strategic planning, and (ii) the proportion of graduates gaining
employment within 12 months of graduation.

 From a beginning where very little information was available, by the end of the
    project 187 higher education institutions (out of a total of 210) were included in the
    performance monitoring survey. Sixty universities had developed their own
    institutional strategic plans using information from the survey and ­as part of the QIG
    application process-- all universities making QIG grant applications revised these
    strategic plans when new survey information became available. In addition the
    MoET was using the information from the performance monitoring survey to define
    the university admissions quotas.       Thus, the information base was substantially
    reinforced and the information was put to good use at both the university and central
    levels. The trend in the value of this KPI was strongly positive throughout the project.
 Linkage to the market economy was reinforced with the creation at sixty-eight
    universities of planning offices that conducted inter alia tracer surveys of recent
    graduates and provided careers advisory services to graduating students. Regular
    monitoring of the proportion of graduates quickly gaining employment was
    problematic, nevertheless the employment percentage of recent graduates was 94% in
    2002 and in 2004 the living standards surveys showed 95% employment of graduates


                                             11

    aged between 18 and 24. The information from the university surveys and the
    feedback from the job fairs and careers advisory work provided information to
    universities about the market and the employment situation for their graduates. These
    feedback signals from the market were incorporated into the universities' institutional
    strategic plans. The KPI for recent graduate employment remained well above its
    target of 85%.
 Outputs from the project related to this objective --such as the national policy
    statement on the development of higher education (Higher Education Reform Agenda
    2006-2020), and the reports and studies on governance in higher education, the
    funding framework, tuition fees, scholarships and student loans-- all show clear
    indications of increased responsiveness to the needs of the market economy. The
    quality improvement grant mechanism also contributed to meeting this objective (24
    sub-projects or 31% of the total awards, were classified as largely reflecting the
    objective of "increasing the flexibility and responsiveness of higher education
    institutions").
 The response of the higher education system to society's demands has also increased.
    The GoV's strategy of aggressive and rapid growth in higher education enrollments
    was a direct response to society's desire for increased access to higher education and
    the perceived needs of the rapidly growing economy. The result has been a significant
    increase in the higher education gross enrollment ratio from 2% in 1993 to about 13%
    in 2002. But as no expansion of universities' physical capacity was created by the
    project inputs, it is not possible to attribute the growth in enrollments to this operation.
    However, the rapid growth in higher education was not achieved solely by replicating
    the model of a mono-disciplinary state-run higher education institution. Instead,
    government allowed diversity in higher education provision with variety in
    institutional ownership, governance, funding arrangements, course structures and
    offerings. Much of this variety was the subject of policy analysis and debate that was
    supported by the first component of the project.



                         Enrollments in Higher Education                                        Universities by type

     1,200,000                                                                    60


     1,000,000                                                                    50


      800,000                                                                     40

                                                                                                                       Mono-disciplinary
                                                                Colleges only     30
      600,000                                                                                                          Multi-discipline
                                                                Universities only

                                                                                  20
      400,000

                                                                                  10

      200,000
                                                                                   0
                                                                                     2001 2002 2003   2004       2005
             0
                2001   2002      2003          2004      2005                                  Years


Underpinning all of this has been widespread and fundamental change in attitudes and
perceptions that resulted from the capacity building and institutional development
activities of the project. The institutional support for planning, and the preparation of



                                                                           12

applications for discretionary grants for universities, both required an attitudinal change
from the institutions. Workshops and short-term courses were delivered to universities
and this capacity building was critical in helping the universities break with the earlier
passive approach of the subsidized era and has supported the transition to a higher
education system that is now more pro-active and responsive to the market economy.

The second development objective was to improve efficiency and resource utilization in
higher education. Again a review of the trend of the two KPIs linked to this second
objective shows a similar positive trend. The KPIs were: (i) the average size of higher
education institutions; and (ii) the proportion of social scholarships awarded to students
from the three lowest income quintiles.

 Sector analysis during preparation showed that there were significant efficiency gains
   to be had from economies of scale if the size of the smaller HEIs could be raised
   above a threshold of 1500 students. This analysis led to the inclusion of the KPI on
   the average size of HEIs and also led to the inclusion of an objective in the quality
   improvement grant regulations of "promoting the consolidation and merger of HEIs
   into multidisciplinary universities". However, the Government addressed the issue of
   cost inefficiencies due to small institutional size by "growing" the system and not by
   promoting mergers or consolidation across universities. The average size of higher
   education institutions (universities and colleges) grew by almost 20% from 5330
   students to 6416 -- well above the target of 10%. The average size of a university is
   now over 11,000 and there are only ten universities where enrollments are below
   1500 students (all of these smaller institutions are in the specialized areas of music,
   fine arts, sports and culture). The trend in the related KPI has thus been strongly
   positive and the expected value of the KPI was exceeded.



                                  Average size of HEIs


  12000


  10000


   8000


                                                                            Colleges
   6000
                                                                            Univ

   4000


   2000


        0
              2001        2002         2003        2004        2005


 The KPI included monitoring equity in resource use (the proportion of social
   scholarships awarded to students from low-income backgrounds) was problematic
   with reliable data disaggregated by income quintile unavailable.           Nevertheless,


                                             13

   despite the rapid growth in student enrollments during the life of the project (an
   average of over 10% p.a.) an increasing number of students and a constant percentage
   of the total university student population benefited from fee waivers and/or social
   welfare support (11% of total students).

 The project outputs that were expected to have an impact on efficiency and resource
   utilization --policy analysis on tuition fees, scholarships and student loans, and a
   revised funding framework-- were all produced.          However, these outputs were
   overtaken by events when the Government moved to a block financing mechanism
   for universities. The adoption of the block grant financing mechanism contributed to
   the increased discretionary authority accorded to universities and is reported to have
   led to savings of administrative expenditures which could be used for supplementing
   academic spending.

 Universities have also pursued this objective through the quality improvement grants
   that make "improvements in university administration and management" (five sub-
   projects or 6% of the awards).         Much of the investment made in information
   technology, improved communications, and connectivity (between the different sites
   of a multi-campus university and across the whole network of universities) has
   allowed improved oversight, coordination and resource utilization.         The project
   requirement that HEI disclose information on their performance and finances has also
   raised public accountability in the use of resources and the monitoring surveys
   provided the universities with information that was structured for a more effective
   management of their resources.

Universities were able to diversify their resource base by mobilization domestic resources
from tuition fees, consulting and contractual work. This has reduced their dependence on
the state budget (in 2005 income from the state budget was 50% of total income with
44% coming from other domestic sources exclusive of the state budget). Finally, the
average unit cost/student remained stable between 2003 and 2005 at VND 5 million per
student.

The final project development objective was to improve the quality of curriculum,
teaching, learning and research in the HEIs. For this third objective the linkage to the
two chosen KPIs was somewhat weaker than the two earlier objectives and the indicators
also show movement in opposing directions. The KPIs were: (i) the proportion of
university teaching staff with postgraduate qualifications and (ii) the internal efficiency
as measured through student flows (repetition and drop-out).

 From a situation where just over one-third (37% of higher education teaching staff)
   had postgraduate qualifications, at the end of the project 47% of all higher education
   staff had post graduate qualifications. The target value for the KPI was surpassed and
   for universities alone over half of university teaching staff (53%) had such
   qualifications.




                                             14

                         University Academic Staff by highest degree


 18,000

 16,000

 14,000
                                                                               phd
 12,000

 10,000                                                                        masters

  8,000                                                                        bachelors

  6,000                                                                        and all other

  4,000

  2,000

      0
             2001        2002          2003           2004          2005

                                       Years


 The rapid growth in the size of the higher education system (university enrollments
   grew at an annual average of 10.5% from 643,000 in 2001 to 959,000 in 2005) has
   had a cost as the internal efficiency of the universities --measured by student flow
   rates-- declined. Student repetition and dropout rates have fluctuated from 1.4% and
   1.2% in 1999, to 2.0% and 4.5% in 2002; and to 1.39% and 3.01%, respectively in
   2005. It must be stressed that much of this slight increase in repetition and drop-out
   is an understandable normal consequence of the large and rapid increase in
   enrollment.

 Nevertheless, despite this fall in internal efficiency, other outputs related to quality
   expected from the project have been met. The project has institutionalized the
   concept of quality assurance with the establishment of national standards for quality
   assurance; the MoET has set-up a department with responsibility for quality
   assurance, prepared regulations governing quality assurance, and it is reviewing the
   results of a quality assurance pilot exercise conducted by twenty universities. The
   impact of the quality assurance activities has been profound and has been embedded
   in the reform agenda for higher education and will be further supported by the follow-
   on investments in higher education.

 At the institution level, universities have pursued the objective of improved quality
   through the sub-project grants. Forty-one of the sub-projects (52% of the total
   awards) were classified as largely reflecting the objective of either to "adapt and
   update course materials, modernize teaching and learning methods" or to "improve
   and update the knowledge and skills of academics". Quality improvement grants were
   used to make improvements in common services such as libraries, information
   systems and computerization (29 sub-projects) and to improve course content and
   delivery and staff qualification (28 sub-projects). A further 16 sub-projects provided
   support for increased research activities. Equipment supplied to basic science
   laboratories has allowed courses to include practical work in basic sciences for the
   first time. Specialized laboratories have allowed research activities to be developed
   in some HEIs.

Finally, the accompanying chart shows the impact of the quality improvement grants on
the learning environment by comparing differences in library and computer/internet
services between two fictive universities. The first is an average of universities that were


                                            15

awarded improvement grants, and the second an average of all universities not receiving
an improvement grant. While both types of institution show an improving learning
environment in such common services as libraries, information access, computing and
internet access, not surprisingly universities that have undertaken QIG sub-projects have
seen their learning environment improve more rapidly. The project has thus helped to
update the learning infrastructure and introduce new teaching methodologies to
universities. The impact of these improvements on student performance has yet to be
evaluated.



                               Learning Environment QIGand Non-QIGuniversity

                                                                                Student internet rooms

  140

  120                                                                           Capacity reading rooms (00s)

  100

  80                                                                            Number books (000s)

  60

  40                                                                            Computers for library search

  20

   0                                                                            Internet connected computers
        2003   2004 QIG   2005                  2003    2004 Non-QIG    2005
                 univ.                                      univ.



In conclusion, while the contribution of the project is difficult to separate from the
programs that the GoV has followed throughout the life of the project, the trend in the
value of the chosen KPIs has been positive and the expected project outputs (see
Annex 2) have been achieved. The project did face difficulties in the management of its
implementation and --because of the lags inherent in education activities-- the impact of
the investments still need to be monitored. Nevertheless, the project made a critical
contribution to the development of the higher education system by providing the capacity
building and institutional development needed to breakout from the earlier centralized
system of the command economy. It has made important contributions to government
policy, and by backing good policies up with investments, has helped contribute to a
healthier higher education sector and underpin the Government's reform of higher
education.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic analysis of the rate of return of the project investment at appraisal estimated
the value of the ERR of 18%. At the time of appraisal the rate of return to higher
education was estimated at 8.7 per cent. More recent estimates made with data from the
VHLSS for the period up to 2004 show that the returns to higher education studies have
increased to 10.2 per cent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The Overall Outcome Rating is put as "Satisfactory" for the following reasons:




                                                    16

    · First, while the development objectives were ambitious and were stated in broad
       terms, the project has remained relevant and has met its objectives. The associated
       targets and outputs such as the policy papers, the higher education reform agenda,
       and the institutionalization of quality assurance in higher education are all clear
       positive results;
    · Second, the project has made substantial achievement in institutional
       strengthening and capacity building at universities. By introducing institutional
       strategic planning and the competitive system of improvement grants, the project
       supported changes in managerial behavior that increased the effective autonomy
       of universities while strengthening their accountability. Reports from the
       universities and feedback from them provided in the project completion workshop
       show clearly that skills related to the design, preparation and implementation of
       sub-projects have been developed and the expected institutional changes have
       taken root in the universities;

    · Third, investments in universities made through the competitive sub-projects have
       improved the learning environment at many universities.              Much of the
       improvement has not been limited to particular subject areas but has been in
       "common services" such as libraries, information retrieval, computerization and
       connectivity that have an impact on all academic staff and students.
    · Fourth, set against the foregoing achievements it should be noted that there were
       shortcomings in the project design with its over-ambitious goals, complex design
       and insufficient attention to the MoET's Department of Higher Education. These
       together with the inexperience of the national team and the lack of continuity in
       key management personnel delayed implementation, but did not block the
       delivery of the project's expected outputs; and

    · Finally, the project has helped the GoV define its future reform program in higher
       education and create a more conducive environment for the development of a
       diversified higher education sub-sector. Furthermore, it has created the capacity
       and expertise in the universities to execute investment projects that will now be
       used in the second Higher Education Project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was not expected to have a direct impact on poverty; instead it was to
contribute to economic growth by providing the advanced skills needed by the market
economy and to improve cost effectiveness and equity in higher education. The poor,
ethnic minorities, women, and persons with disabilities are all under-represented in
higher education. Women and minorities are only 40% and 1.5% respectively of the total
university student body. The proportion of students benefiting from fee waivers and/or
social welfare support has remained constant at 11% of the total university student
population. Fee waivers and welfare support and social scholarships will continue to be
needed to offset the increasing cost of higher education fees.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                            17

This project included substantial activities aimed at institutional strengthening, capacity
building and fostering institutional change. Surveys and their analysis were seen as key
outputs of the project. The institutional strengthening addressed three levels: sector-wide
policy analysis and formulation; the introduction of strategic planning and competitive
funding mechanisms to universities; and decentralizing implementation responsibility to
universities and building their capacity to carry out the design, preparation and
procurement of sub-projects. The policy analysis studies and surveys have provided a
sound information base for planning the development of the higher education system and
have underpinned the GoV's higher education reform agenda. Institutional strategic
planning and the competitive funding mechanism introduced to the universities have led
to an attitudinal change away from a passive, subsidized approach to a more forward-
looking, market approach. Decentralized implementation has built substantial capacity in
procurement and contract management at the universities that were awarded quality
improvement grants.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

One of the unintended positive outcomes of the project has been to raise universities'
awareness -and use- of the local treasury payment system. This will allow further
decentralization of implementation needed for future operations and may well be used
when universities are eventually granted their autonomy. Coupled with the financial
reporting required from universities in the project's surveys, this has raised the public
accountability of universities. A further positive impact has been that, by using their
strategic plans and experience in implementing their sub-projects, some universities have
been able to attract further funding from new overseas partners. Universities have also
used their experience to strengthen their professional links with higher education
institutions outside Vietnam. This has broken down some of the barriers that isolated
many of Vietnam's higher education institutions from the global academic and university
community.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

An interim evaluation of the short-term impact of the QIGs included a beneficiary survey
of the universities that were awarded quality improvement grants was conducted in
March 2007 on behalf of the PCU. A summary of the survey results is provided in
Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to the development outcomes is rated moderate. Given that the policy
orientations of the higher education reform agenda resulting from the project have
already been endorsed by the leadership of the country and discussed by both the MoET
and the universities, a reversal of the policy direction is seen as unlikely. The issue is
likely to be the speed at which the changes needed to effect the reform of higher
education are implemented. Delays are more likely from uncertainty as to how to move
forward and what steps should be taken in the next phase rather than from direct
opposition to policy changes. The consensus and collective decision making process that
characterizes Vietnam's administration will slow the pace of reform but is unlikely to


                                             18

block the progress made to date. This risk is addressed by the follow-on investments in
higher education that focus and maintain the momentum of reform in higher education.

Two issues identified during the post-evaluation of some to the QIG sub-projects point to
a moderate risk to the outcomes of some of the university level sub-projects. First, at one
or two universities the equipment supplied through the grants was not yet being used for
the original objective of the sub-project. Hence, some of the specialized investments in
research laboratory equipment may have their narrow impact further limited. The number
of such cases was a distinct minority and this is not be seen as a general risk affecting all
the institutions. Second, a consolidation of information on the operation and maintenance
arrangements and whether sufficient resources were available to meet these has not been
made by the PCU (universities have provided information on O&M arrangements).
Consequently, there is a moderate risk that the improvements to the learning environment
of the university sub-projects may be limited. Follow-up under the next higher education
project (HEP2) and the regular implementation of the quality assurance and accreditation
procedures at all higher education institutions will identify such weaknesses and provide
opportunities to address these issues.

Sustainability of the majority of the results of this project are supported through the new
project in higher education project that was just starting-up as this project was being
closed.    The new project has been designed to continue improving institutional
arrangements and will build on the achievements and the capacity created under this first
project. Thus, the policy directions started under this project such as the introduction of
quality assurance in higher education, the reform of higher education, the move to greater
institutional autonomy and accountability, are all embedded in the GoV's ongoing
program and are supported by a series of future operations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through
lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank changed its project team during the lending phase to improve the linkage of the
project design to ongoing in-country sector analysis and incorporate best-practice from
other investments in higher education. Despite this there were weaknesses in project
design that may have had an impact on the quality at entry. The project was complex and
challenged the capacity of the Government. Implementation arrangements were
complicated with disbursements limited in the first half of the project as the capacity
building, information and assessment systems were put in place before the majority of the
resources (sub-project funds) could be disbursed. Monitoring and evaluation was built
into the project and the initial baseline measurements were recorded. Risk assessment
was undertaken but the critical weaknesses in the borrower's implementation capacity
were under-estimated. While the project was not subject to a QAG review at entry, a
Bank higher education sector group (COREHEG) reviewed and endorsed the project
design.



                                             19

(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision by the Bank was timely, frequent and technically sound.             There was
continuity in task team and, as the bulk of the Bank's supervision team was based in-
country, frequent informal supervision and feedback to the national implementation team
was facilitated. This allowed for quick identification of problems -such as the slow
project start-up- and specific responses to deal with such problems. However, changes in
the Government's project management team compounded these delays. On each occasion
that a problem was identified the Bank proposed a remedial action program and
monitored the activities closely to ensure that the project was brought back to satisfactory
status. Once the project was fully staffed and operating, Bank supervision continued to
focus on implementation but during the latter stages of the project did not devote
sufficient effort to monitoring the development outcomes and impact of the project.

Bank reporting of the project performance in the PSRs and ISRs of the development
outcomes and the implementation progress is comprehensive. However, greater
information could have been provided to explain why when implementation was flagged
as unsatisfactory the development outcomes were still rated as satisfactory. Given that
the bulk of disbursement was expected only in the second half of the project, it is
understandable that the rating of implementation progress during the first half of the
project was driven more by concerns about the project's management and
implementation rather than by disbursement and outputs. Nevertheless, greater concern
for slow disbursement earlier in the project would have sharpened the focus of
supervision, and more use could have been made of the monitoring and evaluation
included in the project to stress results and outcomes.

Procurement: The challenge of procurement thrown up by this project was to ensure that
decentralized competitive bidding was correctly carried out by the universities with the
support of the procurement unit of the PCU. This was done satisfactorily with a total of
336 bidding packages.

Fiduciary issues: As the Bank's attention to fiduciary standards increased throughout the
project, insufficient internal controls were identified as an issue and addressed with a
remedial action program. A closer watch over disbursements could have been kept
during the second half of the project and the drawdown of the special account started
earlier in the last year of implementation. This would have permitted adjustment to the
disbursement categories in advance of the closure of the credit.

Monitoring and Evaluation: As already mentioned a M&E baseline was established at
the start of the project and the PCU quarterly reports continued to report on the evolution
of the majority of the KPIs. However, in the last year of implementation, insufficient
attention was paid to the outcomes and results of the university sub-projects supported by
the improvement grants.       Data had been collected on the sub-projects through the
universities' reports to the PCU, but pressure of time in the run-up to the closure of the
credit meant that little use was made of this data to assess the impact of the QIGs. Post-
evaluation of the QIGs will continue under HEP2 -- the follow-on higher education
project.


                                              20

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated as "Satisfactory". The project design was highly
relevant to the Government's program and was adapted to the policy context. The
development objectives and outcomes were well aligned with the higher education
system. The project suffered from some of the implementation difficulties that were
generic to many projects in Vietnam during the late 1990s; due mainly to the
unfamiliarity of the borrower with the implementation of large-scale, externally funded,
development projects.     The borrower and the Bank addressed these issues during
implementation.     The candor and detail of reporting from Bank supervision was
satisfactory. Adequate attention was paid to the ISRs, aide-memoires, but greater effort
should have been paid to the use of the monitoring and evaluation of the project outputs
and impact.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's ownership and commitment to the project was demonstrated when a
high-level steering committee was created to provide oversight of the project, the vice-
minister responsible for higher education was designated as the National Project Director
and there was engagement from the key central ministries as well as the sector ministry.
Both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Training were actively
engaged in discussions on financing policy for higher education. As the Government's
experience with development projects increased, the regulatory environment for all ODA
projects was repeatedly changed; each time in order to improve and clarify management
and oversight of externally funded projects. Prior to applying for an extension of the
closing date of the credit, the Government undertook a comprehensive review of the
project. There were minor delays in the availability of counterpart funds but these were
quickly resolved. Finally, during implementation the central ministries undertook a high-
level review that identified administrative bottlenecks and clarified where responsibility
should be placed for contract approval. The intervention from the Ministry of Planning
and Investment resolved this issue.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Ministry of Education and Training and its implementation unit responsible for this
project were clearly engaged and committed to the development objectives of the project.
However, weaknesses were apparent in implementation and for the first three years
progress was very slow. Changes in key project management positions were made
several times and this, combined with the limited capacity and the cumbersome decision
making process, led to further delays in project implementation. Internal communications
between MoET's departments and the PCU was weak; consequently, the PCU had some
difficulty in mainstreaming policy analysis and results into the relevant departments of
MoET. The PCU was unable to mobilize additional support or staffing or to get timely



                                            21

leadership attention on bottleneck issues. Much of the foregoing was not specific to this
project but was systemic in the 1990s and affected most first-generation operations in
Vietnam. Two noteworthy achievements of the project's implementing agency are the
successful introduction and operation of a competitive funding mechanism that provides
discretionary funding to universities, and guiding decentralized procurement and sub-
project management by the universities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating for Borrower performance is "Satisfactory" for the reasons given
above. Both the Government and the sector ministry carrying out the project remained
focused and committed to the original project objectives throughout the project. Central
government agencies provided support or stepped in to resolve difficulties when required.
And while there were serious weaknesses in project management that were compounded
by the high turnover of project management staff, such difficulties were exacerbated by
the changing regulatory framework that governed the management and implementation of
ODA projects. Nevertheless, the overall project results and outputs are close to those
expected and in addition to achieving the expected results, the project has built capacity
at the center and in universities that is necessary for future investments in higher
education.

6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

Policy related lessons: Two policy-related lessons can be drawn from this project.

 First, to ensure relevance to the sector issues and the government's strategy, project
    design should be based on up-to-date in-country sector work and analysis. Such
    linkage ensures that the critical issues are being addressed and that the project design
    incorporates the government's strategies.

 Second, consistency with the government's strategy is a key factor for successful
    programs.     Including a policy component in a higher education investment can
    enhance the impact of a project as long as the project activities match the timing of
    Government's policy changes "avoid doing the right thing but at the wrong time"

Process and Capacity issues:

 Continuity between the teams responsible for project preparation, design, and project
    implementation can have a major impact on the project start-up. Likewise, continuity
    in the staff responsible for project oversight, management and implementation is a
    major contributor to success.

 Key inputs for the implementation unit must be available prior to effectiveness (full-
    time staff, counterpart funds, consultant funds, and workspace).         This includes
    institutional capacity for fiduciary management and procurement.

 Decentralizing project implementation to the lowest level possible can increase
    participation but may delay execution. This project was prepared mainly with the
    national level agencies but the universities executed the majority of the project.
    Changes in personnel at the central agencies and in those at the universities executing



                                             22

    sub-projects delayed implementation. Strict sequencing of grants from "A" to "C"
    was very slow and also delayed implementation. It would have been better to have
    had greater involvement of the universities during project preparation thereby
    building the needed capacity earlier in the project cycle.

Monitoring and Evaluation:

 M&E activities must be within the capacity of the borrower and may need continuing
    Bank support over and above the Bank's supervision budgets in the form of
    institutional development funds or parallel technical assistance grants.

 A well designed results framework coupled with a monitoring and evaluation system
    should remain simple and focus attention on outcomes; thus avoiding being swamped
    by administrative issues that tend to dominate whenever implementation is delayed.
    However, because of the lags inherent in the education process, the outcomes and
    impact of many investments in education are often only apparent sometime after the
    closure of the credit.

 Measurement of outcomes related to institutional strengthening and capacity building
    is a challenge, especially where behavior and attitudinal change underlies the
    project's objectives. On projects that support large reforms, it is equally difficult to
    isolate the contribution of the project from that of the broader range of strategies
    being pursued by the Government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7 for comments from MoET and universities

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

See Annex 5 for a summary of the stakeholder survey.




                                             23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                            Appraisal  Actual/LatestPercentage
                Components                Estimate (USD  Estimate       of
                                            millions)     (USD
                                                         millions)  Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING &
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT of                  18.15       14.91       82%
which

    System-level planning, coordination &
    monitoring                                 2.12         1.26      59%

       Higher Education Policy
       Development                             0.25         0.12      48%

       Performance monitoring of HEIs          0.40         0.51      128%

       Quality Assurance & Accreditation       0.57         0.55      96%

       Funding formula & pricing policy        0.42         0.02       5%

       University regulations & charters       0.48         0.06      13%

    Institutional-level planning              12.51       10.20       82%

       University planning offices             0.54         0.12      22%

       University strategic plans              5.65         5.80      103%

       Graduate tracer surveys                 0.89         0.31      35%

       Careers advisory service offices        5.43         3.97      73%

    Information Technology development         3.52         3.45      98%

       University software packages            3.52         3.45      98%

UNIVERSITY QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS of which:                  63.74       81.48       128%

    Proposal assessment                        0.33         0.20      61%

    Specialized subject review                0.02         0.01       50%

    Quality improvement awards                63.39       81.27       128%

PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND
COORDINATION of which:                         2.33         2.36      101%

    Project coordination unit                  1.86         2.02      109%

    Grant application advisory services        0.08         0.33      413%

    Procurement advisory services              0.39         0.00       1%



                                         24

Total Baseline Cost                           84.22         98.75       117%

Physical Contingencies                          7.18         0.00        n.a.

Price Contingencies                           12.35          0.00        n.a.

Total Project Costs                          103.75         98.75       95%

                    Project Preparation Fund    0.00         0.00        n.a.

                         Front-end fee IBRD     0.00         0.00        n.a.

                 Total Financing Required    103.75         98.75        95%



(b) Financing

                                            Appraisal
                                             Estimate  Actual/Latest
       Source of Funds           Type of                 Estimate    Percentage
                               Cofinancing    (USD                   of Appraisal
                                             millions) (USD millions)

Borrower                                      12.64       8.80          70%

International Development
Association (IDA)                             83.32       80.8          97%

Local Universities                            7.79        12.49         160%




                                         25

     Annex 2. Outputs by Component (Table 2.1)


Component/Sub-      Expected output          Outputs actually               Comments
   component             (from                   delivered
                      PAD/original
                     implementation
                         plan)


Component One: CAPACITY BUILDING & INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT


Sub-component: System-level Planning, Coordination and Monitoring

  Higher           A national policy    Following various            100% achievement
  education        statement on the     workshops and working
  policy           development of       group reports, the "Higher
  development      Higher Education is Education Reform Agenda       HERA now drives the
                   prepared, approved   2006-2020" (HERA) is         HE reform agenda and
                   & disseminated       adopted by PM.               has set university reform
                                                                     on a clear forward-
                                                                     looking path..

  Performance      A survey of all      Only four surveys are        80% achievement
  Monitoring of    HEIs to monitor      carried out but they provide
  higher           performance and      data for each of the years
  education        resource use is      1998 through 2005.           As a feedback and
  institutions     designed,                                         monitoring mechanism
                   conducted annually,                               the surveys are not fully
                   reviewed and                                      successful. The survey
                   disseminated                                      is not conducted
                                                                     regularly. Coverage of
                                                                     the survey is not
                                                                     comprehensive (in 1999
                                                                     158 out of a total 161
                                                                     HEIs, and in 2003 187
                                                                     out of 209). Each HEI
                                                                     receives only its own
                                                                     results.




                                             26

Quality        A body responsible   MoET created a               90% achievement
Assurance and  for Q.A. in H.E. is  Department of
Accreditation  created and          Accreditation &
               procedures for Q.A. Examinations and three key    Participation in
               in HEIs are          documents were produced:     conferences and regional
               designed.            i.Ministerial decision; ii.  visits changed MoET
                                    QA regulation; iii.draft     attitudes to QA and
                                    indicators & standards for   confirmed GoV's
               QA takes place on a  QA.                          choice. The pilot work
               pilot basis in 30                                 now proceeds apace.
               HEIs                                              However, MoET's Dept.
                                    20 HEIs had made self-       has yet to be granted the
                                    evaluation assessments by    power to give a formal
                                    2006 and an external         accreditation.
                                    review of these to assess
                                    results was undertaken.
                                                                 Vietnam's team have
                                                                 also contributed to
                                                                 SEAMEO's QA
                                                                 standards framework

Funding        Analysis of pricing  Document review prepared     50% achievement
formulae and   policies (fees) and  and policy framework paper
pricing policy resource allocation  on funding was issued.
               in HE is carried out.                             A funding formula was
                                    Draft policy on tuition fees not developed or
                                    & scholarships and the       simulation of resource
               A funding formula    funding framework were       allocation carried out as
               is developed and     produced                     the GOV adopted a
               trialed by           Reports on strengths &       block grant funding
               simulation           weaknesses of current        process for universities.
                                    financing system of HE and
                                    also on the student loan
                                    mechanism

University     A set of draft       Model institutional charters 50% achievement
Regulations &  charters and         were prepared and
Charters       institutional        approved by MoET. Two
               regulations for      universities asked to pilot  There is an ongoing
               HEIs are developed   the financial autonomy       lively debate over the
                                    portion of the new           degree of autonomy to
                                    regulation.                  be provided but it is
                                                                 acknowledged that other
                                                                 systems need to be in
                                                                 place (QA, Governance
                                                                 structures etc.,) before
                                                                 the charters can be
                                                                 implemented



                                         27

Sub-component: Institutional Level Planning

  University        Prepare training      Eight courses in             90% achievement
  strategic         package & train       institutional strategic
  planning          staff from 60 HEIs.   planning are held and over
                                          200 planners from 85 HEIs    Of the 60 HEIs that
                                          were trained. A planning     prepared strategic plans
                    Produce 60            manual produced.             the majority reported
                    institution-level                                  they found the exercise
                    strategic plans and                                useful. Similarly all the
                    review these plans    60 universities have         QIG awards showed
                                          prepared their strategic     clear links to each HEI's
                                          plans                        strategic plan

  University        Create 60 HEI         Planning & Career            90% achievement
  planning offices planning offices       Advisory Offices were
                    staffed by univs.     established and equipped at
                                          68 HEIs                      Despite staff turnover,
                                                                       planning offices played a
                    Deliver in-country                                 key focal and
                    modular training      During project a total of    implementation role for
                    and 12 overseas       250 persons training in      HEIs with QIGs. Even
                    masters level         planning & related           those HEIs not awarded
                    courses in planning   techniques.                  QIGs used their planning
                                                                       offices for strategic
                                                                       planning and QA. This
                                                                       is especially true of the
                                                                       non-public HEIs.

  Graduate Tracer Review survey           Two surveys were             25% achievement
  surveys           design & produce      conducted but MoET did
                    manuals               not subsequently repeat it
                                          as it disputed the 2nd       As the survey was not
                                          survey's design and results. repeated regularly, its
                    Train planning staff                               feedback role was not
                    from 40 HEIs and                                   met. A few HEIs have
                    conduct annual                                     repeated the survey at a
                    surveys by HEIs                                    local level and use it to
                    followed by a                                      guide careers advice.
                    national review




                                                28

   Careers          Careers advisory    The careers advisory        95% achievement
   advisory offices services created in services were created in 68
                    60 HEIs             HEIs and linked with the
                                        university planning offices Without the results from
                                        (see above). Workshops      the proposed graduate
                    Workshops each      and job fairs were carried  tracer surveys the
                    year on resumes,    out.                        careers advice did not
                    job search & annual                             fully reflect local labor
                    job fairs                                       market changes.

Sub-component: Information Technology Development

   Software etc.,   Software packages   Video conferencing          Not rated as the activity
                    (in admin/finance,  network covering two        was changed.
                    personnel, student  MoET sites and five univs
                    records, student    throughout VN
                    finance) delivered                              After lengthy delays,
                                        46 HEIs provided with one
                    to 60 HEIs                                      provision of
                                        multimedia classroom with   administrative software
                                        20 learner stations         was replaced by more
                    60 HEIs trained in  A further 91 HEIs provided  general ITC support.
                    use of packages     with one PC & projector     MoET can use the
                                                                    communications
                                                                    network for
                                                                    administrative oversight.


Component Two: QUALITY IMPROVEMENT GRANTS


Proposal            Unit created to     PAU unit processes 154      90% achievement
assessment          assess proposals    applications for QIGs and
                    and process award   recommends awards to 78
                    of QIGs             of these applications       The assessment and
                                                                    award process followed
                    National Academic                               the regulations. Some
                    review panel                                    HEIs with failed
                    created                                         applications raised
                                                                    concerns about the panel
                                                                    composition.

Specialized subject Specialist academic Subject specialists were    90% achievement
review              review of QIG       used for reviews where
                    applications takes  required
                    place.




                                             29

Quality           Grant awards are     Twelve rounds of               Process: 100%
improvement       made on a            competition were held.         achievement
awards            competitive basis,   They resulted in a total of
                  with increasing      78 QIG awards for sub-
                  selectivity criteria projects as follows:           Guidelines were
                  applied to                                          respected.
                                       QIG "A" 36 awards to 36
                  subsequent rounds    HEIs                           Selectivity: "A" from 57
                  of awards, and                                      applications 36 awards
                  funds are            QIG "B" 26 awards to 26        were made; "B" from 48
                  concentrated in a    HEIs                           applications 26 awards
                  limited number of    QIG "C" 16 awards to 12        were made, "C" from 49
                  HEIs                 HEIs                           proposals only 16
                                                                      awards were made.

                                                                      Concentration: QIG
                                                                      resources were spread
                                                                      across a total of 36 HEIs.
                                                                      The competitive
                                                                      "pyramid" structure led
                                                                      to the distribution of
                                                                      QIGs resources as
                                                                      follows

                                                                      38% went to four HEIs
                                                                      with single A and B but
                                                                      two C grants;

                                                                      35% went to eight HEIs
                                                                      each with single A,B,
                                                                      and C grants,

                                                                      19% went to fourteen
                                                                      HEIs with and A and B
                                                                      grant;

                                                                      And 8% went to ten
                                                                      HEIs with a single A
                                                                      grant.

                                       Details of the content,        A summary of the
                                       purpose and classification     evaluation of the
                                       of the sub-projects            implementation and
                                       supported by the grant         outcomes of the QIG
                                       awards are provided below      awards is provided
                                       in Tables 2.2 et seq., of this below in Tables 2.2 et
                                       report                         seq., of this report


Component Three: PROJECT COORDINATION



                                            30

Project            PCU created and   The PCU was created and     60% achievement
Coordination Unit  operational       functioned throughout the
                                     project. However, it was
                                     often handicapped by        Changes in key
                                     changes in management.      personnel over the life of
                                                                 the project had a major
                                                                 impact on
                                                                 implementation (4
                                                                 different National
                                                                 Project Directors, 4
                                                                 different Managers of
                                                                 the PCU as well as other
                                                                 staff changes. The
                                                                 resulting delays and
                                                                 slow implementation led
                                                                 to over attention to
                                                                 administrative issues and
                                                                 left little room for
                                                                 adequate M&E or a
                                                                 rigorous focus on the
                                                                 outcomes of the QIGs.

QIG Application    Advice/guidance   Guidance and advice was     90% achievement
advisory services  given to HEIs     provided through
                   applying for QIGs workshops and direct
                                     institution to institution
                                     contacts

Procurement        Advice given to   The PCU provided training   100% achievement
advisory services  HEIs awarded      and support to the HEIs to
                   QIGs              carry out the decentralized
                                     procurement of goods an     336 bid packages were
                                     services under the QIG      carried out by HEIs (211
                                     awards.                     ICB and 125 NCB) Only
                                                                 16 packages needed re-
                                                                 bidding. As HEIs
                                                                 progressed from A
                                                                 through B to C the time
                                                                 for procurement was
                                                                 reduced. Nevertheless
                                                                 average time for
                                                                 procurement/package
                                                                 was about 17 months,
                                                                 often due to delays of
                                                                 approval at the MoET.




                                           31

    Table 2.2 Distribution of QIGs by Institutions (type number and total value)


                                                Quality Improvement Grants awarded

                                                                  Total
  Name of Higher Education Institution        # of    # of # of   # of        Value
                                               A      B     C     QIGs
                                                                           US$ millions

National University of Hanoi                   1       1    2       4          8.59

National University of Ho Chi Minh City        1       1    2       4          8.45

Hanoi University of Technology (Poly)          1       1    2       4          8.74

National Economic University ­ Hanoi           1       1    1       3          6.42

Can Tho University                             1       1    2       4          4.75

Hue University                                 1       1    1       3          3.86

Vinh University                                1       1    1       3          3.89

HCM University of Medicine & Pharmacy          1       1    1       3          3.77

University of Transport & Communications ­     1       1    1       3          3.73
Hanoi

Hanoi University of Education                  1       1    1       3          3.40

Foreign Trade University ­ Hanoi               1       1    1       3          2.38

Hanoi University of Agriculture 1              1       1    1       3          2.39

Thai Binh University of Medicine               1       1    0       2          1.23

Thai Nguyen University                         1       1    0       2          1.17

Hanoi University of Architecture               1       1    0       2          1.22

Fisheries University ­ Nha Trang               1       1    0       2          0.60

Danang University                              1       1    0       2          1.19

Architecture University ­ HCMC                 1       1    0       2          1.24

Hanoi University of Medicine                   1       1    0       2          1.20

University of Education ­ HCMC                 1       1    0       2          0.92

University of Forestry -- Ha Tay               1       1    0       2          1.13

University of Commerce ­ Hanoi                 1       1    0       2          1.03

Hang Hai University ­ Hai Phong                1       1    0       2          1.23

University of Physical Education & Sports 2 ­  1       1    0       2          1.19



                                             32

Thai Binh

Da Lat University                             1      1       0       2          1.26

Hanoi University of Foreign Studies           1      1       0       2          1.28

University of Mining & Geology ­ Hanoi        1      0       0       1          0.51

University of Agriculture & Forestry HCMC     1      0       0       1          0.60

Institute of Banking ­ Hanoi                  1      0       0       1          0.49

University of Culture ­ Hanoi                 1      0       0       1          0.50

University of Education 2 ­ Hanoi             1      0       0       1          0.49

Hong Duc University ­ Thanh Hoa               1      0       0       1          0.49

Quy Nhong University of Education ­ Binh      1      0       0       1          0.51
Dinh

Tay Nguyen University ­ Da Lak                1      0       0       1          0.48

University of Civil Engineering ­ Hanoi       1      0       0       1          0.42

Institute of Finance ­ Hanoi                  1      0       0       1          0.50

                                              36     26      16     78          81.27




     Table 2.3 QIG sub-project alignment with objectives stated in QIG regulation


                                            Sub-projects           Sub-projects

            Objective stated in QIG      largely reflecting    minimally reflecting

                  Regulations               this objective         this objective

                                         Number     Per cent   Number      Per cent

     Encourage mergers and consolidation
     of universities                        0         0%           0         0%

     Adapt & update course materials,
     teaching & learning methods            26        33%         29         37%

     Improve and update knowledge and
     skills of academics                    15        19%         68         87%

     Increase the flexibility &
     responsiveness of universities         24        31%         25         32%




                                            33

     Table 2.4 QIG sub-project alignment with activities stated in QIG regulation


                                                                          Sub-projects

                                                     Sub-projects          minimally
                                                                           reflecting of
                    Activities                     largely reflecting
                                                   approved activities approved activities

                                                   Number    Per cent  Number      Per cent

Capacity improvements in research, training,         15        19%        70        90%
management/administration (excld. Staff training)

Training of academic staff                           44        56%        47        60%

Revision of course syllabus, curricula and content   20        26%        20        26%

Equipment purchase for upgrading teaching and        40        51%        48        62%
research

Renewal of common facilities (libraries,             25        32%        30        38%
documentation and computer service)

Institutional networking and computerization         14        18%        16        21%




     Table 2.5 QIG sub-projects by Purpose/Outcome and value


                   Type of inputs                  Sub-Projects       US$        %

                                                  Number     %      Millions

     Library and Information Resources              19      24%       11.76     14%

     Information technology & Computerization       17      22%       20.39     25%

     Laboratories ­ basic sciences                  8       10%       8.20      10%

     Laboratories ­ training methods                18      23%       10.55     13%

     Specialized research laboratories              16      21%       30.37     37%

     TOTAL                                          78     100%       81.27    100%




                                                34

Table 2.6 QIGs sub-projects by major purpose/focus and value


               Purpose/focus                 Sub-Projects     US$         %

                                           Number     %      Millions

Improvements in common services (library,     29     37%      26.18      32%
information and computerization)

Improvements in university administration     5      6%       2.40       3%
and management

Improvement in course content, delivery       28     36%      23.08      28%
and staff qualifications

Support for increased research activities     16     21%      29.61      36%

TOTAL                                         78    100%      81.27      100%




Table 2.7 Training delivered under the Project

                                             Post-      Short-term courses &

          Topic               Audience      graduate   study tours (int. & nat.)
                                            courses   Participants    Courses

HE Policy                  MOET & HEIs         -           33              -

Quality Assurance &        staff               -           85              -
Accreditation

Career advisory services                       -           30              -

Strategic planning                             -           15              -

Different topics           HEIs staff
according to the                              60         >20,000         (374)
particular QIG award

Procurement etc.,          HEIs planning       -           80              -
                           staff

Project management &       PCU staff           -           30              -
procurement




                                          35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

(including assumptions in the analysis)


Not applicable




                                        36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members

                                                              Responsibility/
         Names                      Title               Unit
                                                                 Specialty

Lending

                                                             Project
Kathryn Johnston       Education Specialist            EA1HR preparation (TTL
                                                             to Feb.1996)

Josephine Hykin        Sr. Science & Technology
                       Specialist                      ASTHR

Shobhana Sosale        Consultant ­ Higher Education

                                                             Task Team
Christopher Shaw       Lead Education Specialist       EA1HR Leader (from
                                                             March 1996)

Peter Moock            Lead Economist                  EA1HR Economic
                                                             analysis

Mai Thi Thanh          Operations Officer              EA1HR

Carol Chen Ball        Operations Officer              EA1HR Procurement plan

Kathy Li Tow Ngow      Team Assistant                  EA1HR

Rapti Goonesekere      Consultant

Michael Gallagher      Consultant ­ Higher Education         HE Policy

Gordon Stanley         Consultant ­ Quality Assurance        HE Planning

Michael Boesen         Consultant ­ Data processing          HE Survey

David Laidlaw          Consultant ­ Legislation              University
                                                             charters

Maureen Woodhall       Consultant ­ Economist                HE Survey &
                                                             QIGs

Ta Ngoc Chau           Consultant ­ Educational Planner      QIGs




Supervision/ICR

Carol Chen Ball        Sr Operations Off.              EASHD Procurement

Christopher Shaw       Lead Education Specialist       EASHD TTL (to 2002)



                                     37

Maureen Woodhall        Consultant ­Education
                        Economist                              QIGs

Peter Russell Moock     Lead Economist HD              EASHD QIGs & labr mkt

Mai Thi Thanh           Sr. Operation Officer          EASHD TTL (from 2002)

Linh Van Nguyen         Program Assistant              EAPCO

Linh Hoai Nguyen        Coordinator                    EACVF

Hiet Thi Hong Tran      Procurement Spec.              EAPCO Procurement

Phan Thi Xuan Quynh     Financial Management Specialist EACVF FM

Jeffrey Waite           Sr Education Spec.             EASHD

Anh Thuy Nguyen         Operations Analyst             EACVF



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                  No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)

Lending

  FY89                                                             0.25

  FY90                                                            29.11

  FY91                                                            25.99

  FY92                                                           106.71

  FY93                                                           157.50

  FY94                                                           228.10

  FY95                                                           191.63

  FY96                                                            40.67

  FY97                                                            21.66


                       Total:                                    801.62

Supervision/ICR

  FY97                                                            86.86

  FY98                                                            92.80




                                      38

FY99                      63.56

FY00               34    112.64

FY01               31    123.84

FY02               30     46.63

FY03               28     49.80

FY04               19     62.03

FY05               16     21.46

FY06               27     62.03

FY07               14      0.03


        Total:    199    721.68




                 39

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


The MoET's Project Coordination Unit commissioned an evaluation of the short-term
impact of the Quality Improvement Grants made under the Higher Education Project.
This external review included a beneficiary-evaluation for all the institutions that were
awarded QIGs. The Beneficiary Survey had the following coverage:


              Activities                        Target                 Actual

 Institutional Survey                     78 sub-projects 78 sub-projects1

 Individual Beneficiary Survey            900 samples          1189 samples

  Staff                                   180 samples          276 samples

  Researchers                             108 samples          50 samples

  Students                                612 samples          863 samples


The report calculated four different indices:

(a) A Project Design Index that measures a sub-project's linkage to the overall objective
    of the higher education project and an institution's ability to develop measurable KPIs
    for its sub-project.

(b) An Impact Index, a composite measure that reflects self-reported and externally
    validated impact on teaching and learning methodology, research, staff capacity
    building, library resources, course/curriculum, information technology facilities, and
    administration.

(c) A Beneficiary Feedback Index that reflects the quality of library resources, laboratory
    equipment and IT facilities, as perceived by end users (student, staff and researchers).

(d) A Strategy/Sustainability Index that was derived from all documented information on
    the sub-project supplemented by leadership interviews at the beneficiary institutions.


The specific details related to the first index on sub-project design are given broken down
by the different types of QIG awards in the following table.                        This shows that as
institutions moved from the initial type "A" awards through type "B" and on to type "C"
awards, the quality of their sub-projects' design improved over time.




1At the time of the survey the majority of institutions with QIG "C" awards were still implementing their
sub-projects; thus, the beneficiary survey is based mainly on the experience of the earlier type "A" and type
"B" QIG awards.




                                                    40

            Reference Parameter                 Type "A"         Type "B"        Type "C"
                                               sub-projects    sub-projects    sub-projects

 Linkage with overall project objectives            1.9             3.3             3.5

 Quality of KPIs                                    2.7             3.0             3.3

                                                     (scale 0 to 4 with 4 as maximum score)


While the report did not provide the values of the indices for each institution it classified
institutions into "best" and "weakest" performers. The following table summarizes these
results and shows that while no institution was consistently rated the best or the weakest
across all four indices, several institutions rank best in three out of the four indices.


            Index                     Best Performers                Weakest Performers

                              VNU Hanoi                          Pedagogical Univ. Quy Nhon

 Project Design               Hanoi Univ.                        Univ. Civil Engineering

                              National Univ. Economics           Univ. Forestry

                              Hanoi Univ. Technology             Danang Univ.

 Best      -- above 75%       Dalat Univ.                        Hanoi Cultural Univ.

 Weakest ­ below 59%          Hue Univ.                          Medical Uni. Hanoi

                              Univ. Agriculture #1               Univ. Sports & PE #1

                              Univ. Commerce Hanoi               Univ. Mining & Geology

                              Univ. Architecture HCMC            Banking Academy

                              Pedagogical Univ. Hanoi            VNU Hanoi

 Self-reported Impact         Univ. Forestry                     Univ. Architecture Hanoi

                              Danang Univ.                       Pedagogical Univ. Quy Nhon

                              Thai Binh Medical Univ.            Univ. Civil Engineering

 Best      -- above 98%       Thai Nguyen Univ.                  Nha Trang Univ.

 Weakest ­ below 90%          Univ. Mining & Geology             Univ. Finance & Accounting

                              Nong Lam Univ.                     Pedagogical Univ. HCMC

                              Banking Academy                    Pedagogical Univ. #2 Hanoi

                              Univ. Foreign Trade                Univ.

                              Hanoi Univ. Technology             Transport&Communications

                                                                 Hanoi Cultural Univ.

                              VNU HCMC                           VNU Hanoi

 Beneficiary Feedback         Hanoi Univ. Technology             Univ. Architecture Hanoi


                                               41

                        Can Tho Univ.             Univ. Agriculture #1

                        Dalat Univ.               Univ. Civil Engineering

Best    -- above 93%    Pedagogical Univ. HCMC    Hong Duc Univ.

Weakest ­ below 75%     Pedagogical Univ. Hanoi   Nha Trang Univ.

                        Univ.Transport&Communica Univ. Commerce Hanoi
                        tions                     Univ. Finance & Accounting
                        Hue Uni.                  Tay Nguyen Univ.
                        Uni. Foreign Trade        Pedagogical Univ. #2 Hanoi
                        Medical Uni. Hanoi        Danang Univ.

                                                  Hanoi Cultural Univ.

                        VNU HCMC                  VNU Hanoi

Strategy/Sustainability National Univ. Economics  Univ. Architecture Hanoi

                        Dalat Univ.               Univ. Civil Engineering

                        Hanoi Univ.               Vinh Univ.

Best    -- equals 100%  Pedagogical Univ. Hanoi   Pedagogical Univ. Quy Nhon

Weakest ­ below 75%     Hanoi Univ. Technology    Hong Duc Univ.

                        Can Tho Univ.             Nha Trang Univ.

                        Uni. Foreign Trade        Univ. Finance & Accounting

                        Medical Uni. HCMC         Pedagogical Univ. HCMC

                                                  Tay Nguyen Univ.

                                                  Thai Nguyen Univ.

                                                  Hue Univ.

                                                  Hanoi Cultural Univ

                                                  Univ. Sports & PE #1

                                                  Univ. Mining & Geology

                                                  Univ. Architecture HCMC




                                     42

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

On October 22, 2007 MOET organized a workshop to present and review the project
outputs and outcomes. The Project coordination team presented project achievements in
the capacity building component, the Quality improvement grants as well as project
implementation processes such as procurement and financial management. Key MOET
departments in charge of higher education policy including governance, financing and
quality assurance were attending and presenting their assessment of the project activities.
Many participating universities presented their Quality Improvement Grants, ranging
from university-wide efforts to specific study program improvements. The discussion
revolved around lessons learnt from the project implementation experience. Activities
that were not fully carried out were highlighted and discussed. The delineation of
responsibilities in higher education management between the national government
through MOET and universities' autonomy and accountability was stressed as particular
important for the project success.




                                            43

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The draft ICR has been shared with MOET as the implementing agency. In general
MOET is in agreement with the description of the project implementation and the
assessment of the project outcomes. In particular, MOET stressed the importance of the
project supporting system level policy development activities that are tightly linked with
MOET efforts for system restructuring. Furthermore, the quality improvement grants
have created impetus and demand for institutional-level improvement programs. While
the outcomes of many of these grants cannot be fully evaluated at the time of the ICR,
initial reviews showed many university-wide effects of improved facilities and
networking. Being the first large ODA project in the higher education sector, this project
brought about many lessons in the design and implementation, at both the national
(MOET) and the institutional level. Many of the experience and lessons learnt from this
project had informed the design of the follow-on Second Higher Education Project. The
thrust of higher education reforms to increase institutional autonomy and social
accountability introduced by this project is being carried forward in the future Sector
Development Policy Loan.




                                             44

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                     45

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu / Vietnam Auditing Company, March 2002, Higher Education
Project ­ Technical Audit of Quality Improvement Grants


Government, The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, June 1998, Agreed Minutes of
Technical Discussion between the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and
the International Development Association, mimeo


KPMG, 2006 (June), Financial Audit: Financial Statements for the year ending
December 2005 an cumulative financial statements for the period March 1999 to
December 2005, Hanoi


Ministry of Education & Training, 2003, Regulation for the Implementation of Quality
Improvement Grants, Higher Education Project, Hanoi


Ministry of Education & Training, ND, Autonomy & Accountability in Higher Education
Institutions, Draft report of the Working Group on Charters and Regulations, Hanoi


Ministry of Education & Training, ND, Decentralization in the Management for
Universities in Vietnam, Draft report of the Working Group on Charters and Regulations,
Hanoi


Price Waterhouse Coopers, March 2007, Draft Final Report -- Interim Evaluation of the
Short-term Impact of the Quality Improvement Grants (QIG), Higher Education Project


Proposal Assessment Unit and Project Coordination Unit, 2003, Quality Improvement
Grants ­ Comprehensive Report


Project Coordination Unit, 2006, QIG Impact Evaluation 1998-2006


Project Coordination Unit, 2001. Graduate Tracer Survey: Comments from PCU, mimeo.


Project Coordination Unit, ND. Chart of Project Performance Indicators, mimeo.




                                            46

Project Coordination Unit, 2002. Report prepared for the Mid-term Review of the Higher
Education Project, mimeo.


Project Coordination Unit, 2000, 2001. Status of Key Performance Indicators, Annex IV,
Quarterly Report.


Technical Audit Report, 2005. (October), Part A: Report on Study at Project
Coordination Unit, Hanoi.


The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, The Government, 2001. Charters for Higher
Education Institutions.


Vision and Associates, 2001. Graduate Tracer Survey: Survey Results and
Recommendation, Hanoi.


World Bank, 1998. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of
US83.3 Million Equivalent to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for a Higher Education
Project, July 28, 1998 (Report No. 17235-VN).


World Bank, 1998. Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Vietnam and the International Development Association for support of a Higher
Education Project, September 8, 1998 (Credit No. 3126 VN)


World Bank, 2005 and 2006. Letters to SBV amending the DCA and Extending the
Closing date of Credit Agreement 3216-VN


World Bank, 1999-2007, "Aide-memoires" from World Bank Supervision Missions,
1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, mimeo.


World Bank, 2006. Aide-memoire, Higher Education Project (IDA Credit No. 3120-VN,
Aide-memoire on Financial Management, July 26. mimeo


World Bank, 1999-2007. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Results and
Reports, Sequence from #1 through #18 (December 1998 to March 2007 inclusive)




                                           47

