Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24645-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO TBE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR
THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 12, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2002)
Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
RMBl.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = RMB8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           =        Country Assistance Strategy
CBMS          =        China Bridge Management System
CPMS          =        China Pavement Management System
EA            =        Environmental Assessment
EAP           =        Environmental Action Plan
ECAP           =       Ethnic Community Action Plan
EIA           =        Environmental Impact Assessment
E&M            =       Electrical and Mechanical
IST           -        Institutional Strengthening and Training
XCD            =       Xinjiang Communications Department
LACI           =       Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRRP           =       Local Road Rehabilitation Program
KSH            =       Kuitun-Sailimu Highway
MOC            =       Ministry of Communications
MOF            =       Ministry of Finance
NTHS           =       National Trunk Highway System
PAD            =       Project Appraisal Document
PCD            =       Provincial Communications Department
PIC           =        Public Information Center
PEO           =        Project Executive Office
RAP           =        Resettlement Action Plan
RDB           =        Road Data Bank
SDPC          =        State Development and Planning Commission
VOC           =        Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:  Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jacques Tollie, Senior Highway Engineer,
EASTR



CHINA
THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        13
2. Financial                                                                        13
3. Technical                                                                        14
4. Institutional                                                                    14
5. Environmental                                                                    15
6. Social                                                                           17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  21
2. Critical risks                                                                  21



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        22
2. Other                                                                          22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                               39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                           50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                   61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                 66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        73
Annex 11: Major Related Projects financed by Development Agencies                    75
Annex 12: The Regional Dimension                                                     76
Annex 13: Review of the Financial Management System                                  77
Annex 14: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                           84
Annex 15: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan Summary                      95
Annex 16: Social Assessment and Ethnic Communities Action Plan Summary               99
Annex 17: Road Maintenance Management Improvement                                   108
MAP(S)
1. IBRD No. 31860
2. IBRDNo. 31783
3. IBRDNo.31861



CHINA
Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: August 12, 2002                           Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie
Sector Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai             Sector(s): Roads & highways (99%), Sub-national
Country Director: Yukon Huang                   government administration (1%).
Project ID: P058847                             Theme(s): Rural services and infrastructure (P)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
-ProjectFinancing-Data
[X] Loan    [1 Credit    [ Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $150.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: I Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                       Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years, 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter                     Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Maintain as Variable
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): customized
[ ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:  Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing Plan (US$m):   Sou'rce'                          Local        Foreign.       Total
BORROWER                                                    184.20          0.00        184.20
IBRD                                                          0.00        150.00        150.00
Total:                                                      184.20        150.00        334.20
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: XINJIANG COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (XCD)
Xinjiang High Grade Highway Construction Authority
Address: Urumqi, Xinjiang, China
Contact Person: Mr. Aman Haji, Director
Tel: No. 86-991-2574919          Fax: No. 86-991-2574907          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004    ' 2005: -   2006       2007      2008
Annual    30.00      35.00     35.00      30.00     16.00      4.00
Cumulative    30.00     65.00     100.00    130.00    146.00     150.00
Project implementation period: June 2002 - June 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OS PAD F- P- R.M.,  Y



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to improve transport infrastructure and sector govemance in support of social
and economic development in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), a remote province
in Western China.
To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
A. Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased along the regional and
international trade corridor between Kuitun and Sailimu close to the Kazakhstan Border,
part of the main east-west section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS);
B. Accessibility to selected poor areas in the Region improved through a Local Roads
Rehabilitation Program (LRRP); and
C. Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
enhanced.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal outcome/impact indicators selected for monitoring progress towards the above
development objectives are:
a. Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI) in affected counties along
the Kuitun-Sailimu and the LRRP corridors.
b. Transport costs at selected locations.
c. Balance of provincial road expenditures programs
d. Traffic accident fatality rates.
e. Traffic volume and travel time along the Kuitun-Sailimu corridor.
f. Road network condition (roughness data).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321-CHA dated 03/18/97, and Progress Report R98-107 dated 05/28/98  Date of latest CAS
discussion: 05/28/98
The CAS, which reflects the Bank's strategic objectives of fostering growth, reducing poverty,
supporting better governance, and improving the environment, has identified infrastructure
improvement as one of the key areas of China's development agenda to be supported by the Bank.
The sector-specific goals supported by the project are:
contribution to growth and national integration through removal of highway
bottlenecks, affecting inter-provincial trade and commerce;
contribution to poverty reduction through improving accessibility in low-income
counties of a western remote province;
improvement in governance through strengthening public sector management in the
road sector, and
promotion of a sustainability agenda including traffic safety and environmental and
social considerations in highway design, construction and operation.
-2-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Several important pieces of sector work were carried out by the Bank in the recent past: (i) A
Strategy for the Transport Sector (Forward with One Spirit, 1997/98); (ii) Review of Highway
Technical Assistance (1998/99); (iii) OED Report on China Transport (1998/99); and (iv)
Highway Sector Strategy Review (2001). The latter, which was discussed with the Government in
late 2001, has identified five main challenges facing China in its attempt to cope with the rapid
expansion of its highway network:
1.    Sector management. Transforming the Govemment into a market-supporting
institution is one of the largest transition issues facing China today. In the highway sector, the
Govemment role in the provision of infrastructure (construction and maintenance) and of
transport services, is to shift gradually from that of owner, investor and manager to one of
regulator, overseeing and encouraging the development of more independent (in some cases,
non-state) enterprises, able to provide cost effective civil works and services. The pace of such
transformation varies with the level of development of provinces. There is a big difference
between the coastal provinces and interior regions such as Xinjiang which are lagging in the pace
of reform.
The road transport industry has been deregulated and is now very competitive, except
for the haulage of some strategic commodities. There are many small truck operators with
limited spatial network, whereas large local enterprises (mostly state-owned enterprises) have
their own fleet. The main constraints to enhancing the efficiency of the industry are (i) poor
organization and management to deliver comprehensive transport services to their customers, and
(ii) the poor state of facilities and fleet. The Govemment has recognized the importance of
efficient logistics for the development of lagging regions and the need to reduce the overall land
transport costs in order to stay competitive in the WTO era.
2.     Managing road expenditures. As custodian of the road system, the sector should strive to
increase efficiency and minimize the costs of infrastructure provision. These efforts, to constantly
improve, rationalize and minimize the costs of operations of the Provincial Communications
Departments (PCD), should cover all activities of a road administration, from planning to design,
construction and maintenance of all level roads.
Starting with planning, there is a need for more discriminating investment analysis. It
will be necessary for the country to be more selective when planning its road expenditures, even
though there is still a strong demand for additional investments in the road network. The
allocation of funds between maintenance and new construction remains a major problem. Based
on an estimate that about one third of the road maintenance fee revenues (30 billion Yuan)
actually goes to maintenance, this would mean that maintenance expenditures are about Yuan 10
billion a year, or less than 4% of the total road annual expenditures of 216 billion Yuan in the last
two years. Should the situation be allowed to continue, China is likely to face major
reconstruction costs in the future.
A related issue is the balance of expenditures between various classes of roads. At
present, the NTHS consumes 30% of the resources in the sector, with another 30% for other
high-grade highways. With near completion of the priority links, this proportion should be
seriously reviewed to see if it continues to be an efficient use of resources to support economic
development. The need for careful analysis of future investments will be especially important in
the case of projects proposed in the westem provinces, where the types and scale of investments
are likely to differ from that in the eastem provinces.
Highway construction quality remains a serious concem of the sector. Incidences of
bridge and road failings or premature wear and tear of highway pavements have raised awareness
-3 -



of the issue to high-level Government officials. As a result, quality control has been strengthened
through increased authority assigned to the construction supervision agency by the owner
vis-a-vis contractors. While the central government appreciates Bank involvement in the sector
leading generally to improved design reviews, supervision and resulting construction quality,
there is still a definite need to reinforce rigid construction quality standards, control and
enforcement in Bank highway projects.
3.     Managing road revenues and financing. Traditional resources are inadequate to meet the
increasing demands placed on road infrastructure by a growing economy. At present, the main
road user charge is the road maintenance fee, which brings revenues around Yuan 30 billion a
year. Other charges, including the vehicle' tax, probably contribute half as much as the
maintenance fee. So road users have covered about one quarter of annual road expenditures in
the last two years. This is clearly insufficient to limit the fiscal burden of the road sector. In
addition, the road maintenance fee is inefficient. It is expensive to administer, easy to evade and
currently generates less than 40% of its potential revenues. China has been discussing the
introduction of a fuel tax for some years, but no implementation has been decided yet because of
the difficult technical and political issues associated with (i) the level of such a tax and the
amount of revenues desired, (ii) what proportion of these revenues would go back to the road
system and how these revenues would be allocated between MOC and the provinces, and (iii)
whether the fuel tax would be accompanied by an axle-load charge to ensure that heavy vehicles
pay for the additional damage they cause to roads and which cannot normally be covered by the
fuel tax.
Securitization i.e. the sale of highway equity through IPOs and private placements have
been an innovative feature of mobilizing private resources for the highway sector. Unlike BOTs,
securitization of highways already opened to traffic greatly reduces the risk of the investors. The
question is how should securitization of existing road assets be continued and developed given
the proliferation of road companies in all provinces. An undeveloped domestic financial sector is
also placing severe constraints on borrowings, specifically in the international markets while the
potential for private financing remains limited under the current economic and regulatory
environment. The number of highway projects that can be marketed (those with strong traffic
revenue potential) to private sector investors are insignificant compared to the sector's resource
requirements. Under these conditions the focus should be on building a reliable and stable road
user fee based financing framework as described above. In parallel, regulatory reforms are
necessary to open opportunities for different modes of public-private partnerships, to mobilize
domestic savings through the issuance of bonds and to broaden the investor base.
4. Enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas. The geography of China poses heavy
demand and difficulty on the provision of basic road access in various parts of the country,
particularly in inner and low income provinces. Although the role of transport access to integrate
the national economy, to stimulate growth in remote areas and insure basic mobility needs of
the poor has been emphasized, the task is enormous and requires significant public resources.
The Bank's provincial highway program in China aims to favorably impact poverty levels,
through targeted interventions in low income areas. But provincial and central government
agencies often refrain from borrowing for this purpose since no dedicated revenue source for loan
repayment is easily identified (unlike for toll roads). A renewed effort has been recommended to
support road development in low income areas as part of the Bank's future lending and
non-lending services for the sector.
-4 -



5. Social and environmental impacts. Traffic safety remains a major issue when sector
externalities are considered. Although death rate from traffic accidents has decreased from 100
per 10,000 vehicles in the late seventies to about 75 deaths per 10,000 vehicles in 1994, the rate
remains one of the highest in the world. In 1999, 83,500 people were killed and 286,000 injured
in over 400,000 accidents. Besides deaths and injuries accidents cause property damages and
their overall economic and social costs are high. To improve road safety requires coordinated
actions on "Engineering, Education and Enforcement". However the current diffusion of
responsibilities in these different areas makes it difficult to address the problem of road safety in
a comprehensive manner. At the level of MOC and the PCDs, there is a need to continue working
on the "Engineering" aspects of road safety, which are within their area of responsibility. MOC is
planning the systematic use of safety audits as part of project design and a manual is under
preparation, which is to be circulated to the provinces soon. ADB has recently sponsored the
preparation of "Road Safety Guidelines for the Asia Pacific Region" and a Chinese translation
should be available soon. PCDs should also continue and improve the collection and analysis of
accident data and extend the programs of "black spot" correction. The role of the Bank so far has
largely been confined to matters under the jurisdiction of its project executing agencies, namely
the engineering aspects of road safety. For the situation to change dramatically, the matter needs
to be elevated to the highest levels of Government.
Social and environmental assessments are regularly carried out in the context of Bank
financed highway projects. The process is now well established and will continue. It is necessary
to further develop the sensitivities of all highway personal to these matters, so that they become
routine practice, not only on Bank financed projects, but overall in the sector. In particular,
environment and resettlement considerations should be introduced in earlier stages of project
planning and consideration of alternatives.
Government Strategy.
The main concerns of the central and provincial highway authorities are to ensure that the
highway system helps integrate China's national economy and facilitates mobility of goods and
services. This corresponds to the comparative economic and technological advantages of
highways vis-a-vis other modes of transport and to available financial resources. Under such
strategy, the investment priority for the highway sub-sector during the Ninth Five-Year Plan
(9FYP, 1996-2000) were identified as follows:
1.     High priority was given to developing the National Trunk Highway System. The
Ministry of Communication (MOC) identified about 35,000 km of highways throughout the
country that would constitute a network of modern inter-provincial highways under the NTHS.
The first phase of the NTHS investment (totaling 17,000 km) should be completed by 2003. The
construction of the second phase will continue until 2010 when the entire system is expected to be
completed.
2.     The development of some 130,000 km of provincial and rural roads that feed into the
NTHS was planned and undertaken simultaneously to maximize the benefit of NTHS investment.
3.     High priority was also given to providing all-weather access roads to remote/ low income
areas in the poor counties.
4.     Policy and regulatory reforms were to be intensified, with priority attention given to
financing issues and ensuring the efficient utilization of funds.
- 5 -



This strategy has succeeded in several respects. Of the identified 17,000 km of NTHS Phase I,
construction of about 13,000 kmn has been completed. Many provinces have provided all weather
road access to nearly all villages. However, institutional and policy reforms have lagged behind.
Under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (lOFYP, 2001-2005), highway sector institutional reforms are
expected to intensify in the context of the country's move towards a more open and competitive
economy, along the following lines:
* Change in the role of Government with growing role for the market in providing both
infrastructure and transport services;
* Decentralization and reorganization of the sector to maximize the use of scarce resources
through planning and programming (including greater use of RDB, PMS, BMS), to increase
reliance on contract work and services, to improve supervision and quality control, and to
introduce appropriate technologies and standards, etc.;
* Mobilizing new sources of user charge based revenues and promoting public/private
financing mechanisms including asset securitization and revised BOT law, mobilization of
national savings (bond issues), etc.;
* Improving rural accessibility in all provinces and links to and within Western provinces and;
* Improving traffic safety while minimizing environmental and social impacts on people
affected by highway development.
Special mention needs to be made of the Government's Western Development Program. The
12 provinces making up the Western Region cover 6 million square kilometers, about 60% of the
country's total land area and accounts for 25% of the population. Since the adoption of economic
reforms in 1978, development accelerated greatly in the east. In 1995, 66% of the industrial
output came from the east but only 10% from the west, the remainder being from central China.
By 1998, per capita income in the east was three times that in the western region. The west has
been a primary supplier of raw material. There is great potential for processing primary material
and agriculture products in the west. A major objective of the 10th FYP is therefore to develop
Western Provinces. For the road sector, the Government is developing a long-term plan, which
involves actions at three levels:
* East-West connections: MOC plans to develop 8 corridors totaling about 15,000 km to link
the Westem Region and East China;
* Network improvements within the Western Region: This will include rehabilitation and
upgrading of technical standards of about 180,000 km of the road network in the western
areas; and
* Rural access: To alleviate poverty in the rural towns and villages, about 150,000 km of rural
roads have been identified for improvement.
The above plan involves different types of works over 300,000 km of roads of various standards
and classes and would require large funding. The new western initiative is expected to require
US$84 billion over 10 years. The Government is exploring opportunities for mobilizing funds for
this plan, including ways to channel eastern region contributions and related budget transfer
mechanisms. Because of low population densities, low incomes and generally difficult
topographic and climatic conditions, costs of road development in the west will be high and the
potential for cost recovery would remain limited for some time. To efficiently service the
greatest number of people, standards will need to be in tune with traffic demand, rather than
determined politically. This requirement was well understood in the case of this project, where
the proposed trunk road is at expressway standards on 6% of its length, at Class I standards on
74%, and at Class II on 20%.
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address several of the above issues, particularly those considered to be most
relevant to the context of the XUAR Region. The previous projects (Xinjiang Highway Project
(XHP1), completed in 2001, and the ongoing Second Xinjiang Highway Project (XHP2)) had
tackled some of these issues, and hence project preparation focused on taking stock of past
achievements, clarifying/confirming the policy and institutional goals, and agreeing on the
remaining steps to meet these goals.
1.    Sector management. The project will pursue efforts in two main areas:
-Developing Institutional Capacity. The recent decentralization of much administrative
decision-making from MOC to the PCDs has impacted the local organizational and human
resource capacity. Strengthening and modernizing of XCD began under the previous projects and
will continue under this project. During preparation and implementation of the project, staff from
various XCD agencies will be trained, both on-the-job and in carefully designed courses in
transport planning and economics, engineering, quality control, environmental monitoring and
assessment and highway safety.
-Transportfacilitation: In view of the importance of regional integration and trade in the case of
Xinjiang (see Annex 12), two studies had been undertaken: an Intercity Passenger Study under
XHP1, and a Regional Transport Study under XHP2. The main outputs of both studies were
proposals for the medium and long term transport investment programs, and policy
recommendations aimed at strengthening the institutional structure for the provision of transport
services. The project will focus on the studies recommendations which are under the purview of
XCD, in particular (i) the institutional strengthening of the Transportation Administration Bureau
under XCD, and (ii) the development and implementation of a Regional Transport Services
Information System. The latter will provide an updated diagnostic and recommendations for the
road transport industry to improve its contribution to the logistics function. Moreover, it will
establish a framework for dialogue between XCD and the transport industry to enhance the
industry's efficiency and responsiveness to their customers needs.
2.     Managing road expenditures. The project will pursue efforts in two main areas:
-Sustaining road maintenance. Bank's dialogue on this issue under the previous projects has
raised awareness and understanding of the extent of the problem. XCD has a Road Database
(RDB) that could feed into the provincial version of the Chinese Pavement Management System
(CPMS), but neither of these systems are fully operational. The project will operationalize both
the RDB and the CPMS so that maintenance planning be based on a decision support system
covering the entire network in the Region. Moreover, the project will support XCD's efforts to
enhance the practice of contracting out maintenance activities.
One expected impact of this focus on maintenance management is to continue the trend on
increased budget allocations for maintenance in the Region (achievement during 1996-2000 was
an annual average budget increase of 17%, and the expectation for 2001-2005 is a 9% annual
increase -see Appendix D in Annex 5). Thus a more balanced expenditures program is expected.
This will be monitored throughout the project.
-7 -



-Improving construction quality. In addition to ensuring the enforcement of all safeguard policies
including efficient procurement of works and services, the project will focus on two aspects. First,
to improve the engineering design, technical assistance was provided during project preparation
for the review and optimization of geometric and geotechnical design as well as the E&M
systems. Second, to strengthen construction supervision, the project is promoting the
involvement of foreign partners in the joint local-foreign supervision team.
3.    Managing road revenues and financing. The project highway will be under the
management of the Xinjiang High Grade Highway Administration Bureau (XHGHAB).
XHGHAB currently manages the main highways and expressways constructed under the previous
Bank projects. It is organized as'a Branch of Government. Instead of commercializing
XHGHAB, XCD intends to strengthen it with the provision of modern tools and equipment till
the XHGHAB's road assets reach a critical mass necessary for securitization or any other form of
commercialization. The project will pursue the dialogue with XCD on improving the
organization and management of toll highways. Also, through an improved utilization of the
CPMS, the project will create the conditions for an easier implementation in the Region of the
fuel tax reform when it is enacted.
4.     Enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas. XUAR has a total of 87 counties,
including county level cities. Thirty of these counties are designated poor counties, and most are
in the southwest and northwest part of Xinjiang. The 9th FYP (1996-2000) has emphasized the
provision of access to the poor communities. During the plan period, as a matter of state policy,
Xinjiang has aggressively pursued the provision of basic road access to the villages in the poor
counties. About 97% of the villages in Xinjiang have motorable road access. These are generally
Class IV or Unclassified roads. They are not necessarily all weather roads, but generally open to
traffic except during very heavy rain and snow. XCD plans to continue this program during the
10th FYP. In the 30 poor counties, presently basic road access to the villages varies from 85% to
100%. This is a significant achievement within a short timeframe. The proposed investments
during the 10th FYP period (2001-2005) would improve the quality of road access further in
terms of maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as the functional responsiveness of the road
network. The project will assist the Region in this endeavour (Annex 2.B).
5.     Externalities. The project will focus on two issues:
-Road safety: a study of factors contributing to road accidents was completed under XHP1, and
recommendations regarding improved data collection and preparation of blackspot programs were
implemented under XHP2. More needs to be done, particularly in the area of safety audits and
driver behavior. The role of the "Leading Group" promoted to improve cooperation between XCD
and the Traffic Police will continue under the project.
-Addressing the needs of minorities. This is a Region-specific feature, which is being dealt with
through Ethnic Communities Action Plans prepared on the basis of the social assessments
undertaken for this project (Section E-6 below).
-8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Kuitun-SailimuHu Highway
1.    The main project component is the Kuitun-SailimuHu Highway (KSH), an important
section of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) and the remaining gap on the 1430 km
stretch of the National Highway 312 in Xinjiang. Various design alternatives were considered,
including: i) the construction of a four-lane expressway; ii) the construction of additional two
lanes (Class 1 standard); iii) upgrading of the existing two lane roads to Class 1 and/or Class 2
standard; and iv) combining new and existing alignments. The preferred alternative was a
combination in tune with the traffic needs of the 302.6 km highway section: (i) Kuitun to Wusu:
new construction of a 18 km expressway; (ii) Wusu to Bole Fork: upgrading to a 229 km Class 1
highway; and (iii) Bole Fork to SailimuHu: rehabilitation of a 55.6 km Class 2 highway. About
80% of the KuiSai highway will use the existing alignment; the new alignments mostly serve as
bypasses to the urbanized areas in Wusu and Jinghe.
Local Roads Rehabilitation Program
2.     The primary objective of the local roads component is to assure that in poor counties
villages have primary road access and townships are well connected to the provincial and national
highway system. Taking into account the progress already made in providing basic access to
almost all the villages in the poor counties as well as the expenditures proposed during the 10th
FYP to complete this basic accessibility, the proposed component would focus on road links
between the major townships and the provincial and national highways in the rural areas of
Xinjiang. The eligibility criteria (economic/ social/ environmental) have been defined for the
LRRP (see Annex 2). A tentative list of 12 links has been proposed by the Region, totaling about
600 km. This will be a four-year rehabilitation program, to be implemented under a
programmatic approach. The links selected for the first year program were evaluated during
project preparation.
Strengthening Sector Institutions
3.     The capacity building component will include institutional strengthening, training, and
provision of specialized equipment, to address the sector issues identified to be key to preparing
the sector for future reforms as per section B.3 above. This includes traffic safety, toll highway
management, road management and maintenance, and transport facilitation. The relevant
institutional and policy actions are described in Annex 2.1 which provides an outline of the
various action plans that would be consolidated into an "Institutional Development and Reform
Plan" (para G.2.2.c. below).
-9-



.       .                           Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
1. New construction in main corridor:
1.1 Main highway                                 248.93      74.5    121.89      81.3
1.2 Construction supervision                       8.42       2.5      1.29       0.9
1.3 land acquisition/resettlement                 14.39       4.3      0.00       0.0
2. Rehabilitation of local roads in poor counties   44.88      13.4     16.10      10.7
3. Capacity building:
3.1 institutional strengthening and                3.57       1.1      0.44       0.3
traffic safety
3.2 studies                                        0.86       0.3      0.74       0.5
3.3 strengthening of laboratories                 11.65       3.5      8.04       5.4
and O&M services
Total Project Costs  332.70   99.6    148.50      99.0
Front-end fee   1.50       0.4      - 1.50     1.0
Total Financing Required  334.20     100.0    150.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy reform which would enhance further project sustainability is the establishment of
the fuel tax which would replace several existing road user fees. No conditionality is attached to
this reform which is still in the legislative arena (para B.2.3 above). Once enacted, such reform
would improve resource mobilization for sustaining road maintenance and improving the
provincial road expenditures program needs, but this may take some time. To reap these benefits
in a shorter timeframe, XUAR needs to prepare its institutions for undertaking the future reforms.
The project is designed to assist the Region by focusing on reform areas supported by XCD and
within its governance.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would foster inter-regional and international trade facilitation by reducing user costs,
improving road safety and creating conditions for economic growth in one of the remotest region
of China. More specifically, the major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction on
vehicle operating costs and time costs of road users. The highways improved under the project
will have shorter length, improved surface conditions and riding comfort, improved geometry,
reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than the existing roads. The project will
also benefit residents of poor counties in the Region, through improved access to health,
education and other social services as well as to markets. The total affected population in the
main corridor is estimated at about 3.2 million, and the affected population in poor counties is
roughly estimated at 2 million.
Other benefits which are non-quantifiable, would include strengthening the capabilities of the
regional agencies and their related institutions which are responsible for the planning, design,
financing, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance of highways in Xinjiang. Also,
the project is expected to result in lower traffic accident rates on the highway network through the
- 10 -



implementation of the traffic safety component. Furthermore, the proposed project should lead to
improvements in the quality of construction of highways through the continuing introduction of
improved technology and stricter arrangements for supervision of construction. The project would
also foster improved practices in the areas of environment, land acquisition and resettlement of
affected people and participatory approaches to project preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
XCD has the overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Under XCD, the
Xinjiang High-grade Highway Construction Authority, the executing agency for the previous
Bank-financed highway projects in the Region, will also be the executing agency for the proposed
KSH. Other project components such as the local road program, the TA and training components
and the procurement of equipment will be executed by the Highway Administration Bureau
(HAB) and the PEO under XCD. The project will be implemented during 2002- 2007. Overall
direction of the project at the central level will rest with the Ministry of Communication (MOC).
MOC will assume an oversight role and provide some technical support. The Bank loan will be
extended to the Borrower, the Republic of China, which in turn will onlend the loan proceeds to
XUAR on the same conditions. Close cooperation between PEO and the Financial Bureau of
XUAR is expected for a smooth project implementation. Details on funds flow are presented in
Annex 13.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1 Public/private provision: Considering the reluctance of private investors for greenfield operations in
the current circumstances in China, as well as the financial conditions specific to the KSH, a strategic
choice was made to (i) provide the infrastructure from public funds and (ii) work with XCD on an
improved framework for operation of toll highways in the Region, so that when the economy in the
Region is more developed, commercialization of the toll authority could be facilitated.
1.2 Trade facilitation: Given the importance of the project corridor in supporting the westem region
development strategy, through domestic market integration, and in facilitating international trade
between China and Central Asia, a strong trade facilitation component was initially envisaged. However,
in light of the ongoing regional initiatives within Central Asian countries and activities of other
partners(see Annex 12), the project scope was limited to improving the physical infrastructure and
responsiveness of the transport industry in trade facilitation. Moreover it was recognized that the
cross-border facilitation issues required sustained engagement in the ongoing dialogue between China
and the neighboring Central Asian countries, and that the project was not an appropriate vehicle for it.
1.3 Route alternatives: Considering the existing and future socio-economic development and growth
potential in the area of influence of the project, the existing and future volumes and composition of
traffic in the corridor and the capacity of the existing modes of both rail and road, the proposed design
for KSH would address in the most economical way the needs in the corridor. The option of constructing
an expressway on a new alignment parallel to the existing National Highway 312 was considered but
rejected based on the findings of the prefeasibility studies. The selected KSH alignment took into
account potential environmental and resettlement impacts, and minimized these impacts.
1.4 Links alternatives: Under the LRRP, alternative links were considered based on socio-economic
impacts on the one side, and technical urgency due to poor road condition on the other side. Criteria
have been defined for screening and final selection (as described in Annex 2, section B).
- 11 -



1.5 Design standards: Alternative technical standards (lane number/width, bridge types, staging, etc.)
were considered as part of the engineering design. Tenders will be called on the basis of the optimized
design.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest, Supervision
Sector-lssue          ~~~--*roject      ;       PR):Rtig'is
. __ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ __- ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ;  (Bank-flnanced  pr6 ects  6nily),
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
(Please refer to Annex 11)
Other development agencies
(Please refer to Annex 11)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
While the overall perfornance of the Bank highway portfolio iii China is in general satisfactory, a
number of issues have been identified for due consideration in the design of the proposed project. These
include: inadequate engineering designs and bid documents including costing of civil works; quality
control of construction; late commencement of electrical and mechanical facilities component (which
delayed completion of some projects and necessitated the extension of the closing date of several Bank
loans), and slow pace of policy and institutional reforms, specifically relating to road maintenance,
improved high-grade highway management and operation, and traffic safety.
An OED assessment of the China portfolio completed in 1999 determined that the policy dialogue
between China and the Bank in the highway sector needs to be elevated and maintained. During
preparation of the proposed project, XCD was engaged on the policy matters which were started under
XHP1 and XHP2. It was important to map what institutional reforms were truly supported by XCD and
within its governance, and what reforms would first require building consensus among critical
stakeholders. The outcome of these efforts has been integrated in the project design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Discussions so far have shown that there is strong support for the project at various levels of
Government. The KSH is the terminal element of the much larger corridor from Shanghai to Kazakhstan
Border which, with a total length of some 4500 km, constitutes one of China's highest priority highway
investments. The project's KSH is the last section of the corridor to be upgraded within Xinjiang. Also
XCD is committed to make progress on the reform agenda, through continuing dialogue on the five -year
Institutional Development and Reform Plan under-the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
To deepen the strengthening of sector governance through sustained engagement while supporting the
completion of the most important East-West land bridge within China and between China and Central
Asia. The Bank involvement would result in (i) strengthening of sector institutions by building upon the
past achievements, particularly in the areas of human capacity building, asset maintenance, and
management of sector externalities (safety, environment and social dimensions), (ii) introduction of the
- 12 -



social assessment process in the regional transport infrastructure design and implementation, (iii)
adoption of a design approach which is more responsive to traffic demand, especially with respect to the
National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), and (iv) proper attention paid to local roads that serve as
connectors between the NTHS and the rural low income areas. Finally, in view of the important regional
dimension of the corridor, the Bank is well placed to address the issue of regional integration by
involving the ECA and EAP regions.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$238.9 million; ERR = 21.0 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
This economic evaluation covers two project components that account for all of the project costs: (a)
construction and upgrading of the Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway (KSH), totaling 302.6 km and (b)
upgrading of 12 rural roads under the Local Road Rehabilitation Program (LRRP), totaling 603 km. to
help the poor areas in the region. The principal measured benefits of the project are savings in vehicle
operating costs, time savings to vehicle occupants and enhanced road safety. The estimated overall
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project is 21.0%, with those for KSH and LRRP being
19.6% and 32.2%, respectively. The overall economic.net present value (ENPV), based on a 12%
discount rate, is estimated at RMB 1,983.1 million, of which KSH is estimated to contribute RMB
1,549.6 million and LRRP is estimated to contribute RMB 433.5 million. An analysis of the evaluation
results and a description of the method used to derive them are provided in Annex 4 and is summarized
as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %) NPV (RMB million, 12%)
Kuitun - Sailimuhu Hlighway:
Section 1: Kuitun - Usu    20.6            178.2
Section 2: Usu - Bole      18.2           1,007.2
Section 3: Bole - Sailimuhu  31.1         348.2
Subtotal           19.6           1.549.6
Local Road Rehabilitation Program  32.2     433.5
Total              21.0          1,983.1
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ -60.5 million; FRR = 2.8 % (see Annex 4)
Construction of KSH is the main component of the project and the only one that would generate revenue.
All the twelve rural roads to be upgraded under the LRRP are toll free. The XCD is planning to use the
toll revenue from KSH to cover the loan amortization charges. Although the highway will generate
enough total revenue over the loan period, with a standard amortization schedule, there will be cash
deficits in 2015 when KSH needs major maintenance. These annual deficits can be met by transferring
the reserve funds from the previous years. Based on the proposed toll level, KSH may not need any
external cash injection over the loan period. Yet, the highway toll in Xinjiang is the lowest among all the
highway projects financed by the Bank to China. The toll revenue may generate the sufficient funds to
support the highway operations including the debt services, but the low profit margin will affect the rate
of return to the investment. The FIRR for KSH is expected to be 2.8 percent. For non-revenue earning
entities (the twelve toll free roads under LRRP), the financial evaluation is focused on the availability of
- 13-



sufficient counterpart funds and the operating expenses including the financial risks for the project roads.
All the indicators show that the financial risks for these toll free roads are modest. A detailed assessment
is provided in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
The expenditures on road construction and maintenance for the "toll-free" roads included in the project
constitute only a small fraction of XCD fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact would be minimal. Based
on the XCD plan, the capital investment for the LRRP program is less than 2.4 percent of annual total
XCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure for LRRP is less than 0.7 percent of
total maintenance expenditure of XCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest
financial risk regarding availability of counterpart fund for construction and maintenance of the project
roads (see Section F.2 below).
3. Technical:
Special attention was paid to finalizing the engineering design before bidding would start to
minimize variations orders during implementation and ensuing cost overruns. The preliminary
design reviewed by Zhongjiao Highway Planning and Design Institute, a Beijing based consultant,
and the revised design reviewed by a team of foreign consultants (SNC-Lavalin). The main
recommendations were:
* the choice of upgrading on same alignment entails some trade-offs on the class 2 mountainous
section between Bole Fork and Sailimu. On this 23 km long section, the average grade is
slightly higher than the recommended standard, and visibility is sometimes limited due to
horizontal curvatures. Mitigation measures include paved climbing lanes and graveled
runaway lanes as well as flatter embankment slopes.
*   close attention needs to be paid to construction detours during implementation.
*   frost heave on salty soils to be dealt with through gravel separation layer protected by filter
layers.
*   to complement the safety audit at design stage, a safety audit will be conducted before
opening the road to traffic to look at critical areas such as intersections, urbanized areas and
borrow pits.
These recommendations have been taken into account. There were also suggestions to improve
national standards regarding (i) flexible versus rigid pavement designs, and (ii) bridge foundation
design which tends to be too conservative, especially when large footings are concerned.
Improving national standards is part of the ongoing dialogue between Bank and MOC at central
level.
4. Institutional:
All institutional issues related to capacity building were paid special attention, in particular the
introduction of management systems and associated organizational arrangements. The successful
implementation of the institutional components will require continued strong commitment from
XCD.
4.1 Executing agencies:
They have been involved in the two previous projects and are faniliar with the Bank requirements.
However, in light of the ethnic minority mix of the region (see section F below), special care is warranted
to continue securing government's understanding and trust on the issues linked with minorities.
-14 -



4.2 Project management:
The arrangements described in para C.4 above were found satisfactory. All the concerned agencies are
fully familiar with Bank procedures after having successfully managed two Bank projects. Full
ownership has been taken by XCD management of the project objectives, especially the institutional
components which will require continued strong commitment. PEO have carefully prepared the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) where all implementation arrangements and responsibilities have been clearly
defined.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Project Procurement Assessment was conducted during pre-appraisal, as summarized in Annex 6.
Based on past performance, the agency capacity was found satisfactory
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Financial Management Assessment was conducted during pre-appraisal (Annex 13). The assessment
concluded that the project meets the Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP
10.02. The project has in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format
agreed with the project and as required by the Bank. Funding sources for the project include Bank loan
and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of
China represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and on-lending arrangements will be signed
between MOF and Finance Bureau of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (FBXUAR), and between
FBXUAR and XCD. The Bank loan will flow from the Bank to a project special account maintained by
FBXUAR, to the project for reimbursable expenditures incurred and advanced by the project, or to
contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major conmnercial banks acceptable to the Bank. In terms
of disbursement technique, the project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement
techniques and will not be using PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between
the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds will come from two sources: one part from appropriations by
MOC, and the other part from XCD. No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with the implementing
agency involved in the proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial
management matters and audit covenants during project supervision.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
After completion of the feasibility study report by Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey & Design
Institute, environmental assessment work started in June 1999 with the appointment of Xinjiang
Environmental Techniques and Assessment Center (XETAC) as an Environmental Assessment (EA)
consultant. The EA works were prepared according to the Chinese national procedures and the World
Bank's OP 4.01.
The first draft of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was submitted to the Bank in May 2001.
Since then intensive discussions were made among XCD, XETAC, and the Bank during several missions
and through e-mails. Other environmental documents - Environmental Action Plan (EAP), EA
Summary reports, Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Action Plan (IEE & EAP) for
the Local Roads Rehabilitation Program (LRRP) - were also reviewed by the Bank throughout project
preparation (see para 5.3 below).
-15-



During the EA work, local people in the project area were intensively consulted, and their opinions have
been reflected in the project design and enviromnental mitigation measures, as appropriate. Relevant
information and documents were provided before each consultation. The final EA reports were disclosed
locally at the end of January 2002 with an advertisement in the local newspaper, and sent to the World
Bank's InfoShop for disclosure at the beginning of February 2002. An addendum/corrigendum was
issued in May 2002 and disclosed at the same time, both locally and in the Bank's InfoShop.
The major findings and discussions are summarized below. More detailed information is given in Annex
14.
Major Potential Impact.
More than 80 % of the 302.6 kn proposed main highway will be simply upgraded from the existing
highway. The results of EA work indicate that there exist no protected areas ,critical natural habitats, or
cultural relics along the proposed alignment. The expected major potential impacts are noise, dust, and
damage to fragile vegetation, which are common in most highway projects in China. A local ecological
expert conducted field-surveys and identified two sections as ecologically sensitive spots and developed
mitigation measures. One section belongs to a desert area with fragile vegetation. The other is the
western section near Sailimu, where the lake, mountains, and grasslands compose beautiful scenery. As
the results of the analysis and extensive consultations with local people, a wide range of mitigation
measures were developed in the EIA including rehabilitation of vegetations, resettlement, noise barriers,
water-spray and material covers for dust control. In order to protect vegetation in the arid western area,
the existing alignment has been utilized and upgraded as much as possible.
Mitigation Measures. As a result of the analysis, a wide range of mitigation measures was developed in
the ETA including rehabilitation of settlements and plantations, noise barriers, water spray and material
covers for dust control. In order to protect the fragile vegetation in the arid western area, the existing
alignment will be utilized and upgraded as much as possible, instead of building a new highway. The
new expressway is limited to only the first 18.5 km from Kuitun City. For the next 171 km, existing road
will be upgraded to class 1 highway except for 42 km of new bypasses, which are made to avoid
residential areas and sand accumulation. The last section, 58 Iam, will be upgraded only to class 2
highway. At the same time, special attention will be paid to the ecologically sensitive areas during
construction, and rehabilitation works also will be commenced imnmediately after the construction works.
Local Roads Rehabilitation Program (LRRP). There is no new construction and no need for land
acquisition in the first year program. There exist no Protected Areas along the project alignments. The
ecological and cultural environments were surveyed and no critical natural habitats or cultural property
were found. The existing air and acoustic environment were monitored and potential impacts were
projected. As all construction works comprise rehabilitation of existing roads, no significant impacts are
envisaged. In order to minimize the environmental impacts of the project, a variety of mitigation
measures has been integrated into the EAP, including noise and air pollution, water pollution, and traffic
safety. For the latter years program, no significant impacts are expected for the same reasons as above.
However, in case some land acquisition is found to be necessary, the procedures will follow the policy
framework prepared under the project.
-16 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?.
The EAP comprises an environmental protection plan and an environmental monitoring plan. Both plans
specify responsible parties and supervising parties for their implementation at design stage, construction
stage, and operation stage. The protection plan involves practical and cost-effective measures necessary
to mitigate the project-related impacts, such as rehabilitation works for desert vegetation. In order to
ensure its implementation, the EAP also includes training, institutional arrangements, implementation
schedule, and budget necessary to implement it.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 2002
The EA work has been entrusted to the Xinjiang Environment Technique and Assessment Center, which
is a public corporation supervised by the Xinjiang Environmental Protection Bureau and independent
from the implementing agency in terms of administrative jurisdiction. The TOR for the EA was
submitted to the Bank for review in September 2000. The Bank reviewed the EA reports several times
from May 2001 to January 2002. The Bank received the fifth and final draft of the EIA, EAP, and EA
Summary in May 2002. They were sent to the Bank's InfoShop for disclosure at the same time.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to the World Bank's guideline: (a) shortly
after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the EA were finalized (August 1999);
and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared (September 2001). The consultation was conducted
through meetings with local people at project-affected towns and through surveys with questionnaires.
Project-affected individuals, organizations of concerned villagers, and village committees were
intensively consulted.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the
project's actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early
stage, and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. The monitoring will cover pollution related
issues, ecological environment, and social issues. Environmental monitoring will be entrusted to
Xinjiang Environmental Monitoring Center. The results of monitoring will be reported to the Bank and
relevant local authorities. The environmental monitoring plans are provided in Annex 14.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Land acquisition and resettlement. (Details are in Annex 15). The major social impacts of the project
stem from land acquisition and residential demolition associated with expressway construction. A
resettlement action plan (RAP) has been prepared and approved by XUAR to mitigate these impacts, and
to otherwise ensure that incomes and living standards of the affected people are improved, or at minimum
restored. The RAP, based on an inventory of affected assets, census of the affected people, social
assessment and consultations with local govemment agencies and potentially affected people, was
disclosed both locally and in the Bank's InfoShop in February 2002.
- 17 -



Land acquisition will affect 21 villages in 11 townships of four counties. The project will require the
permanent acquisition of 6,112.7 mu (or 407.5 hectares) of land, including 1,953.7 mu (or 130.3
hectares) of cultivated land and 4,159 mu (or 277 hectares) of non-cultivated land. Works on the main
highway will also require temporary use of an additional 13,904.8 mu (927 hectares) of collective grass
land. In all, land acquisition will affect 1,450 people ( 331 households). Residential demolition will
require relocation of 579 people (145 households). The project also will affect some public facilities,
such as power and communication lines, wells and irrigation canals.
The RAP prepared by the project office provides details regarding resettlement policy principles and
regulations to be followed, compensation rates and budget, measures to restore incomes where necessary,
and institutional and monitoring arrangements. In general, it follows a land-for-land approach to assist
farmers in restoring productivity and incomes.
The separate rural road rehabilitation component is expected to be implemented within existing
right-of-way; and so is not expected to cause any land acquisition or house demolition. A resettlement
policy framework nonetheless has been prepared in case design changes during implementation make
land acquisition necessary.
Arrangements regarding minority nationalities. (Details are in Annex 16). Xinjiang is ethnically
diverse. Though the region is officially designated as the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, members
of the Uygur minority nationality constitute less than half of the regional population: Han Chinese,
Kazakhs, Mongols, Tajiks, Kyrgis, Uzbeks, also form sizable proportions of the regional population. The
proportion of Han Chinese has increased rapidly over the past century through various forms of
sponsored or spontaneous migration.
The Bank task team and the project agency agreed early in the project preparation phase that inadequate
consultation with minority nationalities, and inadequate understanding of minority nationality
communities' transport-related constraints and preferences could generate adverse community impacts, or
could result in inadequate project design or effectiveness.
In accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, the XCD engaged consultants to conduct a
social assessment, covering both the Kuitun-Sailimu highway component and roads to be improved under
the Local Roads Rehabilitation Program. The purposes of the social assessment included: to consult
specifically with minority nationality communities regarding their transport needs and constraints, and
their views and preferences regarding the project; to obtain information from local residents that may be
relevant to project design or operation; to determine whether potentially affected minority nationality
communities exhibited the distinguishing characteristics (as listed in OD 4.20) that might make them
vulnerable to disadvantage in the development process; and to gather information necessary for
preparation of an Ethnic Communities Action Plan (ECAP), if one were deemed necessary to meet the
requirements of OD 4.20.
The social assessment process and the resulting social assessment report were reviewed by both a
national and international consultant hired by the Bank. The results indicated that all five of the
distinguishing characteristics listed in OD 4.20 are relevant within the project area, though the extent of
relevance varies from group to group and from place to place.
As a result of the above consultations, it was agreed that preparation of an ECAP was necessary to
protect minority nationality communities from potentially harmful impacts, and to ensure culturally
appropriate project design. An ECAP subsequently has been prepared by XCD. The ECAP responds
- 18 -



directly to issues and concerns raised by members of mninority nationality communities. Categorically,
these issues and concerns relate to:
*   Protection of ecologically fragile pasture areas
*   Maintenance of access for migrating livestock
*   Roadway and traffic safety (including multilingual road signage)
*   Maintenance of access for pedestrians and non-motorized traffic
*   Cultural sensitivity during construction, especially in the vicinity of mosques
*   Culturally appropriate treatment in relocation of tombs
In some cases (e.g., protection of pasture areas, or relocation of tombs), the issues have already been
addressed in the separate RAP or EAP prepared for the project. For these cases, the ECAP describes
actions or measures included in the RAP or EAP that will address issues raised during the social
assessment process. In some cases, the issues raised by members of minority nationalities relate to
highway safety or access. For these cases, the ECAP describes actions already taken or to be taken to
ensure appropriate project design and operation. The ECAP also includes measures to address issues
relating to cultural sensitivity, including construction procedures and contractor behavior in the vicinity
of mosques, culturally appropriate relocation of tombs, and ensuring bilingual road signage.
Only five of an estimated 12 local roads to be improved under the LRRP are included in the first year's
construction program. Until selection of remaining roads is finalized, it is impossible to conduct
consultations among potentially affected persons. Following final selection, a separate social assessment
(based on the same terms of reference) will be undertaken. If warranted, a revised ECAP satisfactory to
the Bank will be required prior to Bank approval for civil works contracts.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Information dissemination: All the affected households and villages have been identified through the
census survey. The RAP has been translated in both Uygur and Chinese languages, their availabilities
have been advertised in Xinjiang Autonomous Region Daily Newspapers for those who are interested in
the project information and resettlement policy available to read in the Autonomous Regional Library
without any charge. The.hot-lines for information disclosure have been settled and appointed staff in the
project office will answer any questions related to the project information and resettlement policy. The
project office also required the relevant project affected counties to make the same statements and the
information has been replaced in the county public library. Relevant project information has been
provided to the affected villages through newspaper reports, posters and public meetings. A resettlement
information booklet providing details regarding compensation rates, other entitlement policies and
grievance procedures was distributed to the affected people prior the resettlement implementation. The
ECAP also was publicly disclosed, in both Chinese and Uygur translations.
Participation strategy: Focus group discussions and key informant interviews have been used to consult
with potentially affected persons, in both RAP and ECAP preparation. For the RAP, the primary focus of
consultations has been on obtaining views and preferences regarding resettlement impacts and mitigation
measures, including rehabilitation measures. These views and preferences have been taken into account
during RAP revision, and-the majority of potentially affected persons agree that the resettlement and
rehabilitation measures planned under the RAP would be adequate to address and mitigate any adverse
impacts. For the ECAP, the consultations were conducted to obtain views and preferences specifically
from minority nationality communities. The ECAP responds directly to issues and concerns raised during
these consultations.
-19-



The affected communities are to play a key role in determining and implementing their livelihood
restoration programs. After land compensation amounts are calculated, for example, each village
committee will determine how land compensation can best be used to improve, or at least restore, local
income-earning potential. Any approach in using the land compensation must be subject to consultation
with the villagers and later on, local banks are to disburse land compensation according to the villagers'
decision.
The Xinjiang Communications Department will set up procedures to supervise land compensation use,
and local banks in each county will participate in resettlement fund monitoring. Both internal and
independent monitoring of the resettlement program would be conducted regularly during project
implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A Survey & Design Institute from Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province was contracted to conduct the census
and inventory survey exercise. This has contributed significantly to the preparation of the RAP. Village
committees and farmer groups have also been consulted with and participated in the resettlement
planning process and the preparation of the project. Project information was disseminated among them
during the consultation sessions. Their feedback has been incorporated into the RAP and the consultation
session concluded that the resettlement and rehabilitation measures planned under the RAP would be
adequate to address and mitigate any project impacts on land acquisition and house demolition.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements are detailed in the RAP and the ECAP. The project agency has capacity
within its resettlement office to implement the required resettlement activities, as evidenced in the
previous two Bank financed projects. Preparation of the present project has increased emphasis on the
monitoring of resettlement by external sources, and provision of training on RAP requirements to the
responsible county- and township-level officials. East China Hydro-Power Design Institute and Xinjiang
Social Science Academy, independent from Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and the project office,
will be contracted to serve as the independent monitoring agencies of the resettlement program. The
project will be monitored and the living standards of the PAPs will be evaluated over the course of the
project implementation. The monitoring results will be regularly reported and, if needed, remedial
actions will be designed. Many of the actions described in the ECAP refer to measures incorporated in
the separate RAP or EAP. For other actions, XCD accepts implementational and financial responsibhlity.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Implementation of the RAP will be monitored internally by the project agency and externally by a
qualified resettlement institute wholly independent of the project agency. Actions described in the ECAP
but incorporated into the separate RAP or EAP will be monitored in keeping with RAP or EAP
monitoring arrangements. For other actions included in the ECAP itself, XCD will prepare an annuai
implementation monitoring report for Bank review.
-20-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy       '      -                    Applicability
Environmental Assessmnent (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  __ Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  U Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U_ Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 *_ Yes U No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes U No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 437)                             U Yes w No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*  __ Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, see Section E-5 (above).
For OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, and for OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples, see Section E-6 (above).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The past trend suggests that traffic levels on highways would continue to grow in tune with regional
economic growth. Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China
show that commitment towards implementation of the physical components of the project has been
strong but the pace of institutional reform has been slow. The level of tolls and its periodic adjustment
are important for the financial viability of the project including repayment of the Bank loan and timely
maintenance. Project sustainability is enhanced by the gradual approach taken towards the reform
process, tailored to the Xinjiang context in that it is recognized that the pace of reform here is slower
than in a coastal province.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Rlsk Rating  .         Risk-Mitigatlon Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- Internalization of improved procedures   M        Detailed TOR for all services, and close
for sector organization, management, and            supervision from Bank missions.
operation.
- Continued commitment to implement        M        XCD demonstrated a high level of ownership
TA's final recommendations.                         in the preparation of the various action plans.
- Reorganization of XCD not disruptive,    S        Assurance was obtained on stability of core
instead taken as an opportunity to                  staff involved in project management.
improve efficiency.
- 21 -



From Components to Outputs
- Counterpart resources available in      M        Strong commitment from XUAR. Also, MOC
timely mranner                                     is providing a substantial contribution.
- Incentives are adequate to obtain good  S        XCD took strong measures to reinforce
performance from the selected                      accountability in recent years. Careful review
contractors and consultants-                       of procurement awards and strict- contract
supervision.
-Political pressure do not interfere with  S        PIP was carefully prepared by XCD; should be
realistic implementation plan and quality           maintained as main tool for project
requirements.                                       management.
-Opportunities are opened to trainees to  M         Demand is high for skilled staff and is likely to
apply new skills in workplace.                      remain so.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Besides the above project risks, there are external risks given that the project is situated in a socially
sensitive area (in particular in terms of the multiplicity of ethnic communities involved in this border
Region). A number of precautionary steps were taken during project preparation, including (i)
convening several special safeguard review meetings within the Bank to identify potential risks and
provide guidance to the task team, and (ii) staffing missions with intemational/national consultants to
advise and assess external and safeguard risks. While recognizing that the project per se is not
particularly sensitive, but that it is the context which is showing some ethnic sensitivity, the Bank has
decided to maintain the project under close monitoring from the Safeguards Quality Assurance and
Compliance Unit.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary
(XUAR) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
2. Agreements Reached with the Beneficiary:
Highway Expenditures
a) A condition of eligibility for LRRP subprojects shall be the submission, for each
LRRP package, of technical, economic, social and environmental justifications
satisfactory to the Bank;
-22 -



b) XUAR shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2003 and ending in 2007,
furnish an annual highway expenditure report for the Bank's review and comments for
the previous year, which would: (i) show the length of each class of highway by
condition (excellent, good, fair and bad) as of December 31 of the previous year; (ii)
show the completed physical works and actual expenditures of the previous year
against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new
construction, upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and
routine maintenance; and (iii) show the targets of the highway program for the current
year, including new construction, upgrading/ improvement, rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical works and planned
expenditures.
Policy and Institutional Reform and Road Traffic Safety Programs, and Training
c) XUAR shall: (i) by October 31, 2002, complete an institutional development and
reform plan (IDRP) for the next 5 years for its respective highway sector, such plan to
cover the areas of, inter alia, road safety, organizational development and
strengthening, pavement design, training needs, equipment needs, management systems
development, and transport services; and (ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its
review and comments;
d) The IDRP referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above shall be based on the outline
presented in Annex 2.1. This includes in particular two studies to be carried out: one
on a Regional Transport Services Information System (RTSIS), aimed at transport
facilitation in the Region, and the other on Road Maintenance Management
Improvement (RMMI), aimed at enhancing strategies and tools for managing the road
assets and making optimal use of funds in the road sector. Once developed, these
systems will be implemented and monitored under the project;
e) XUAR shall: on the basis of the IDRP referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above, (i) by
September 30 of each year, commencing in 2003, prepare and provide to the Bank for
its review and comments an annual program of implementation; and thereafter (ii) take
all appropriate actions to implement said annual program, taking into consideration the
Bank's view thereon.;
f) XUAR shall: (i) carry out the training, in accordance with training programs
acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (ii) by September 30 of each year, commencing
in 2003, furnish to the Bank for its prior approval a rolling two-year training program;
g) XUAR shall: (i) by March 31, 2004, complete an analysis and recommendation for the
toll rates on the KSH taking into consideration the results of the similar studies on toll
rates conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the
experience with toll rates on major roads in China; (ii) furnish said analysis to the
Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations
of said study, taking into consideration the Bank's view thereon;
h) XUAR shall maintain the Leading Group for Traffic Safety and the Traffic Safety
Secretariat.
Environmental and Social Protection
i) XUAR shall carry out the EAP, the RAP and the ECAP in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval;
- 23 -



j) XUAR shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
carrying out of EAP, RAP, and ECAP; and
k) XUAR shall prepare and furnish the Bank with: (1) by January 31 of each year starting
in 2003, an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction phase and
for each of the first three years following completion of construction; and (2) by
October 31, 2002, and thereafter by March 31 and September 30 of each year starting
in 2003 and extending until two years after the resettlement is completed, internal
monitoring reports prepared by Xinjiang agencies; and (3) by June 30 and December
31 of each year, commencing on December 31, 2002 and for the same time period
mentioned above, reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank,
about the implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the previous
six months; and (4) by March 31 of each year starting in 2003, an annual monitoring
report on the implementation of the ECAP.
Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing
XUAR shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and submit to the
Bank:
* a quarterly progress report on project implementation, covering all components and
assessing the extent to which various implementation and development objectives have
been met in the course of project execution and operation;
*  a semi-annual Financial Management Report providing information on all aspects of
project implementation and showing how disbursement and procurement are linked to
physical progress;
*  an annual report on the Performance Monitoring Indicators defined under the project;
*  the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year; and
*  within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an
implementation completion report in a format acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
0I 1. b) Not applicable.
z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-24 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Jacques M. Toi                   Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                   vk Huang
Team Leader                      Acting Vice President               Mountuy Director
-25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators       '                             Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support social and economic  a. Gross Output Value of  -Region annual economic  Increased economic activity
development in Xinjiang   Agriculture and Industry  reports/statistics.       and accessibility to all areas in
Uygur Autonomous Region   (GOVAI) in affected counties                        the Region enhance
(XUAR).                   and in a few control counties  -Country-economic reports  opportunities in all sectors,
along the project corridors.                        and contribute to sustainable
and equitable development.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improve transport         b. Transport costs at selected  -Annual report on highway  Other projects in transport and
infrastructure and sector  locations.               network operation.        rural development sectors
govemance in XUAR.                                                            contribute successfully to
performance of the economy.
c. Balance of provincial  -Annual review of sector
expenditures programs:    allocations and expenditures.
*between new construction,
rehabilitation and        -Review of functional
maintenance, and          classification.
*between classes of roads.
d. Traffic accident rates on
new and existing highways.
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Traffic congestion relieved  1.1 Average daily traffic on  -Project performance  -Internalization of improved
and mobility increased in  new highway.             monitoring reports.       procedures for sector
main corridor Kuitun to   1.2 average vehicle speed.                          organization, management,
Kazakhstan Border.                                                            and operation.
2. Accessibility to poor areas  2.1 Average daily traffic on                  -Continued commitment to
in the Region improved.   local roads in affected areas.                      implement TA's final
2.2 number of days roads are                        recommendations.
closed to traffic.
3. Efficiency and         3.1 Qualitative evaluation  -trainees reports.      -Reorganization of XCD not
effectiveness in public sector  reflecting sharing of new                     disruptive, instead taken as an
management of the road    knowledge and exercising new -reports on implementation'of opportunity to improve
network enhanced.         skills by staff trained under  studies recommendations.  efficiency.
the project, as well as
improvement of performance
in specific functions and
activities.
- 26 -



3.2 Quality of construction  -annual report on IRI survey
and maintenance as measured  data.
by pavement roughness.
3.3 Quality of project    -progress reports on social and
management in social and  environmental monitoring
environmental aspects     activities.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. New construction in main    (in US$ million)     Progress reports and      -Counterpart resources
corridor:                                           disbursement reports.     available in timely manner
1.1 KSH                        * 248.93
1.2 works supervision          * 8.42                                      -incentives are adequate to
1.3 land acquisition &         * 14.39                                     obtain good performance from
resettlement.                                                           the selected contractors and
consultants.
2. Rehabilitation of local roads   * 44.88                                    -political pressure do not
in poor counties.                                                             interfere with realistic
implementation plan and
quality requirements.
3. Capacity building:              * 16.08                                    -opportunities are opened to
3.1 training                                                               trainees to apply new skills in
3.2 studies                                                                workplace.
3.3 provision of
equipment.
Total project costs                  332.70
-27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$271.74 million
The first output is Reduced Congestion and Increased Mobility in the Main East-West Corridor. To meet
this objective, three sub-components are designed as follows:
Al.    Construction of Kuitun-Sailixnuhu Highway (KSH): US$ 248.93 million
The proposed expressway is an important part of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) as
well as of the main East-West corridor in Xinjiang. As part of the NTHS, the KSH will connect Kuitun (the
end of the Urumqi-Kuitun Expressway financed under the Second Xinjiang Highway Project) to Sailimu
Lake (about 120 km from the border with Khazakstan). This 312 km long section represents the remaining
gap of the NTHS yet to be completed on the 1430 km long stretch of the National Highway 312 traversing
Xinjiang. This route is also the main trunk line of Xinjiang, serving an area with large and diverse economic
development potential, and an important international communication line since ancient times (it was part of
the northern section of the Silk Road). At present the corridor is served by a Class 3 road, whose capacity is
exceeded in the first section and reaching its lirmit elsewhere; the existing road needs upgrading to
accommodate traffic forecast in 2010 as follows: 20,000 veh./day in the first section, 12,000 in the mniddle,
and 4,000 in the last section. Various alternatives were considered including: i) a new construction of
additional two lanes (Class I standard); or ii) upgrading the existing two lane roads to Class 1 and/or Class 2
standard; or iii) combining new and existing alignments. The preferred alternative was a 302.6 km long
highway consisting of three sections:
0      Kuitun to Wusu: a 18 km expressway;
0      Wusu to Bole Fork: a 229 km Class 1 highway; and
0   .  Bole Fork to SailimuHu: a 55.6 km Class 2 highway.
About 80% of the KSH will be on the existing alignment, the rest dealing mostly with bypasses of urbanized areas in
Wusu and Jinghe. This solution would reduce land acquisition requirements and minimize environmental impacts,
while reducing the total length from 312 km to 302.6 km.
In addition to roadway construction, the component includes: (a) service areas and facilities for
operation and maintenance of the expressway; and (b) supply and installation of electric and mechanical
systems for toll collection, telecommunication, traffic monitoring, road safety and lighting of toll plazas and
interchanges.
A2.    Construction supervision: US$ 8.42 million
Supervision of the KSH will be carried out by a Joint Supervision Team (JST) which is an
association between a foreign firm, which will be selected according to terms of reference and procurement
schedule agreed with the Bank, and a local firm selected according to MOC regulations. The JST will act as
the Engineer under FIDIC terms. It will be headed by a chief engineer and each of the fifteen contract
sections will have a resident engineer. The foreign partner is expected mobilize in late May 2002, and start
actual supervision activities in late June 2002.
A3.    Land acquisition and resettlemtent: US$ 14.39 million
Construction of the KSH will require permanent use of about 407.5 hectares of land, and will affect 1450
persons, who need to be relocated. Another 927 hectares of land would be required to be leased temporarily in the
course of construction, generally at sites of big bridges, thus with no affect on the population. Along the alignment,
no enterprise will be affected. Project impacts were identified through a detailed investigation of affected persons
and properties conducted by Xinjiang Communications Planning, Survey and Design Institute. A baseline
social-economic survey of the affected people is being carried out before the actual implementation of resettlemnent
to determine their existing income levels and standards of living.
- 28 -



Project Component 2 - US$44.88 million
B.     The second output is Improved Accessibility to Poor Areas in the Region. To meet this objective,
the project includes a Local Roads Rehabilitation Program (LRRP) component, which would cover about
600 km of local roads in selected poor areas in Xinjiang. These local roads would be rehabilitated without
change in alignment. The component is aiming at increasing incomes in the low-income counties by
providing improved accessibility and market efficiency through enhanced connectivity. It would also assist
in improving the incomes of the various demographic groups in the population. The criteria for selection of
links under the LRRP would follow a two-stage screening:
First-stage screening- three criteria would be considered as follows:
1. Low-income area: the Per Capita Income should be at or below the average in Xinjiang (currently
RMB 6470).
2. Representation of various ethnic group in the impacted population.
3. Road Condition Index (RCI). A value below 55 would signal a need for rehabilitation.
Second-staee screening- two criteria would be considered as follows:
1. Analysis of the economic and social benefits of each proposed link. The expected minimum EIRR
is 12%.
2. Compliance with safeguard policies, to be ascertained through (i) environmental assessment, (ii)
social assessment and ensuing minority development plan, and (iii) if necessary, a resettlement
action plan.
The first-stage screening has been carried out and a preliminary LRRP program, composed of 12 links
as shown in the two tables overleaf, has been agreed. Implementation would be as follows:
Year One Procram. This will include the first five links in the list, for which the second-stage screening
has been completed. The results of feasibility studies is summarized in Annex 4, and compliance with
safeguard policies has been ascertained as per Sections E.5 and E.6 of PAD.
Later Years Program. The rest of LRRP will be implemented in three years. Annually, XCD would
provide the Bank with a proposed annual imnplementation plan for its review and prior approval. As part of
this plan, XCD would carry out the second-stage screening and prepare for each link (i) a feasibility study
and (ii) reports showing compliance with safeguard policies in accordance with the agreed ftameworks. In
the event XCD propose for substitution in the program a link not previously identified, XCD would carry out
new analyses to ensure that all criteria for selection have been met.
- 29 -



Table A - LRRP Tentative list
Link   Highway              Location             Length,      Class of Highway     Road
No.     No.                                       Km       Existing   Proposed  Condition
_____                                             _________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Index
9      S 303             Santai - Qitai            34        3          2          43
10     S 303         Mulei - Tuyuantun - Qitai      55        3          2          44
3      S 220       Bayitouhai -Tekese - Zaosu      84        3          2          55
7      S208             Awati-Akesu                59        3          2          41
8     S 307           Baicheng - Yuergun           30        3          2          36
11     S 221            Tacheng - Eming             50        3          2          49
6      S 311             Jiashe - Sule             20        3          2
4      S 310          Yuepuhu - Tazihong           25        3          2           22
1     G 315             Keriya - Pishan            43        3          2
2     G 218             Zaketai - Nalati           48        3          2           48
S      S 315       Qiaoerma - Zhongfengchang       89        4          3           36
12     S 318        Fehai - Guoyingnongeheng        66        3          2          41
Total Length (km)                   603       Total Cost (RMB        403
million)   .
Table B - LRRP Socio-economic data
Link     Per                                Population
No.    capita      Total       Han       Uygur       Kazak        Hui      Other
income
9     3,692      79,117      62,141     4,209       5,582       5,107      2,078
10     4,003      23,727      19,984     1,406       2,122          94       121
3     2,473      34,414       6,320    19,511       3,950       1,916      2,717
.7       4,076     74,742       7,252     67,485          1           4
8     2,679      50,062       6,741    43,191                      52        78
11     6,969      67,045      38,705     1,244      12,061       6,523     8,512
6     9,559      16,170       1,676       947       9,313       3,700       534
4      1,955    122,791       4,590    118,201                          _
1     9,559      16,170       1,676       947       9,313       3,700       534
2     4,439     105,923      26,965     11,668     58,953       8,337  ___
5     2,402      94,158      30,827     9,267      42,152       4,472      7,440
12     5,594      15,773      9,473         21       4,672         984       623
Project Component 3 - US$ 16.08 million
The third output is Enhanced Sector Management. To meet this objective, the project includes three
sub-components as follows (Annex 2.1 below provides an outline and monitoring plan of the various tasks):
- 30 -



Cl.    Institutional Strengthening/Training: US$ 1.00 million
Several departments of XCD have been strengthened and extensive training programs have been
undertaken under the provisions of previous projects. In particular, most offices dealing with Bank projects
were strengthened substantially and have benefited from the various training programs. It is now proposed
to target (i) XCD Head Office (XHGHAB), (ii) the Xinjiang Provincial Survey, Planning and Design
Institute (XRSPDI) and (iii) the QCMC. In particular, XRSPDI and QCMC are crucial links at both ends
of the construction quality chain, and experience under previous projects has shown that important quality
gains can be obtained through the strengthening of these units.
In addition, comprehensive training (in China and abroad) is also included in the areas of environmental
protection, construction and maintenance technology and mnanagemnent, highway network planning and
operations management, for senior professionals. Comprehensive study tours abroad are planned for senior
management personnel in the areas of highway administration and management, highway network planning,
financing, management and regulatory policy, and post-project evaluation. A summaIry of both training
programs is provided in Annex 2.2.
C2.    Studies and Technical Assistance: US$ 0.63 million
a) Road Maintenance Management Improvement (RMMI). The purpose is to provide XCD
with a modem tool for managing the road assets and making optimal use of funds in the road sector.
Specifically the two objectives are i) to institutionalize computer-based support for network management;
and ii) to improve maintenance strategies and programs to make the most effective use of budget
allocations. The task would: a) Upgrade the present database and computer systems - to produce good
executive informnation, extend and adapt the application of CPMS to all the N/P network, install a computer
network, and train staff in road management and use of the system; b) Prepare the 2003 annual program
and new 5-year plans using the new system, and c) Strengthen the management of large road maintenance
equipment assets. The tasks would be implemented by HAB and PEO. Background and details of the
component are given in Annex 16.
b) Continuous Support to Other Critical Sector Issues. Under previous projects, three critical
areas were identified: Road Safety, Organization/Management of Toll Highways, and Transport
Facilitation. Assistance was provided in the form of studies, which are now all completed. The studies
recommendations were thoroughly discussed, and action plans have been prepared to implement the agreed
recommendations. The project will now assist in the further implementation of these action plans.
*   Road Safety. Traffic safety risk in China is substantially higher than in many of the fully
motorized developed countries. During 1994, there were 24.3 fatalities per 10,000 motor
vehicles, compared to 1.3 in Japan, 1.5 in the UK, 1.9 in Canada, and 2.2 in Germany. The
situation is much worse in Xinjiang than in China as a whole, with 38.2 fatalities per 10,000
vehicles. The proposed traffic safety component will assist to addressing this challenge, based
on the work done under XHP1 and XHP2 which showed that the problem is complex,
involving the design and maintenance of highways, driver education and behavior, loading and
balancing of trucks, vehicle condition and maintenance standards, education and enforcement,
and institutional arrangements. This is not a single agency problem, and experience has shown
that tackling it is fraught with difficulties (jurisdictional, cost sharing, non-physical elements).
Hence the design of the component:
i) In view of their importance for effective results in this area, the multi-agency Leading
Group for Traffic Safety (LGTS) as well as the Traffic Safety Secretariat (TSS)
established under XHP2 will continue under XHP3.
ii) Two Traffic Safety Action Plans have been prepared: the first dealing with infrastructural
elements would be under the control of XCD; the second dealing with all other elements
would be under the purview of the LGTS. Implementation of these Action Plans will be
closely monitored under the project.
*   Improved Management of toll highways. XCD prepared an action plan to improve toll
highway management including (i) review of findings and recommendations made in studies of
- 31 -



Organization, Management and Maintenance of Toll Highways recently completed under other
projects, (ii) review of experience in other provinces and other countries, (iii) preparing
recommendations appropriate for Xinjiang, and (iv) implementing the recommended actions.
The overall implementation would cover the period October 2002-October 2005.
*   Improved Transport Services. XCD prepared two reports on (i) Current functions of the
Transportation Administration Bureau (TAB) and areas in need of strengthening, and (ii) a
proposal for a Regional Transport Services Information System (RTSIS) to improve the
management of transport facilities and services in Xinjiang. Development of the RTSIS will
involve private and public sector freight operators as weUl as the container transport industry in
Xinjiang. Both the strengthening of TAB and the RTSIS will be supported under the project.
C3.    Equipment for Institutional Strengthening and Operation and Maintenance: US$ 14.45
million
a) Institutional Strengthening (US$ 3.64 million). The project will provide specialized
equipment for institutional strengthening of the head office of XCD, the Construction Quality Control
Center and the Design Institute, as well as equipment needed for the study under the Road Maintenance
Management Improvement component. The agreed lists of equipment, available in the Project Files, have
taken account of the equipment that were procured under the previous highway projects financed by the
Bank as weU as the equipment that were procured by XCD over the past few years for the strengthening of
the capabilities of relevant agencies. Equipment utilization ratios will be used as performance indicator.
b) Operation and Maintenance (US$ 10.81 miUion). Under previous projects in the province,
equipment was provided for the operation and maintenance of the arterial road network. The needs have
been updated. The agreed list is in the Project Files. In addition, a component to improve the management
of large fleet of road maintenance equipment is included as part of the RMMI.
-32 -



Annex 2.1: Institutional Development and Reform in Xinjiang Highway Sector
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
I. PLAN OUTLINE
1.   Institutional Development,and Reform Plan (IDRP)
End Results:
A.    Institutionalization of highway sector management improvement through the reform and
development process over five years.
B.    A successful implementation of the organizational reform in Xinjiang
Communication Department (XCD).
Outputs:
A.   Preparation of the five-year IDRP for XCD.
B.    Annual joint reviews of the IDRP.
Indicators:
A.    Achievement of the implementation targets as indicated by the IDRP.
B.    Staff Components and other efficiency indicators.
Implementation Agency: XCD
Implementation Period: 2002-2007
2.    Traffic Safety
End Results:
Decrease in accident rates and improvement in road safety.
Outputs:
A.   Implementation of highway safety audits on a 260 Km section of the Highway S201
(Karamay-Hutubi).
B.    Making the above section a demonstration project for highway safety, by
improvement of all the black spots along the entire length of S201, as part of the
rehabilitation of S201.
C.    Providing the necessary equipment for traffic police for enhancing the traffic safety
on Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway (KSH), by appropriate enforcement of traffic laws
and regulations.
Indicators:
A.    Highway Safety Audit Reports for S201.
B.    Annual progress reports on S201 black spots improvements and the demonstration
project.
C.    Enhancement of traffic safety on Highway S201 as indicated by traffic safety
monitoring indicators as compared to the base year before improvements:
i.  Number of accidents per 10,000 vehicle/km
ii. Number of fatalities and injuries per 10,000 vehicle/km
iii. Direct economic losses due to traffic accidents
Implementation Agency:
PEO and Highway Safety Leading Group
Implementation Period: 2002-2007
- 33 -



3.   Institutional Strengthening and Staff Training
End Results:
Improved management level and efficiency in XCD functions through introduction of new
technology, advanced management skills and necessary equipment procurement.
Outputs:
A.   Improvement in professional skills through training.
B.   Availability of appropriate office technology equipment for various units under
XCD.
C.   Implementation of institutional strengthening of XCD, XHHAB, XHAB, XTAB.
Indicators:
A.   Utilization of new technology and skills by trained staff in their daily work.
B.    Annual updating of the two-year rolling training program
Implementation Agency: PEO
Implementation Period: 2002-2006
4.   Enhanced Toil Highway Management and Rate Structures
End-Results:
A.     Increased efficiency in toll highway management.
B.     Increased know-how about the options, and a basis for decisions as regards toll road
financing.
Outputs:
A.     Completion of the study on toll highway management and toll rate structures.
B.     Enhancement of data collection system and toll collection system.
C.     Formulation of policies and regulations for toll rate structures.
Indicators:
A.     Progress report on study
B.     Annual review of toll highway operations.
Implementation Agency: PEO
Implementation Period: 2002-2005
5.   Road Management and Maintenance Improvement
End-Results:
A.    Ability to link predicted long and short term pavement conditions with different
scenarios of budget levels and maintenance policies.
B.    Capability of analyzing impacts of different investment strategies on road network
condition in a specified life cycle period.
C.    Recommended action plans for individual road maintenance and rehabilitation.
D.    Implementation of an asset management system for maintenance equipment.
Outputs:
A.    Predicted road condition reports based on roughness and other indicators.
B.    Graph reports of road condition comparisons by region and road class.
C.    Level of service capability report for each class of road and traffic level.
D.    Historical information and data updating system for road surface structure.
E.    Report on equipment (property, cost, maintenance, operation service standards).
Monitoring Indicators:
A.    Annual report on highway network condition.
B.    Annual report on maintenance and rehabilitation plan.
C.    Report on asset value of individual equipment and its performance history.
Implementation Agency: XHAB and PEO
Implementation Period: 2002-2005
-34-



6.   Transport Facilitation
End-Results:
A.    Traffic facilitation measures lead to improved utilization rates on main highways,
increased revenues from tolls and enhanced economic exchanges between Xinjiang
and adjacent areas.
B.     More efficient transport services through the establishment of a modem information
system.
Outputs:
A.    Diagnostic of regional transportation conditions including cross-border operations
and containerization potential.
B.    Recommendations for improvements.
C.    Development and effective operation of a Road Transportation Services Information
System.
Monitoring Indicators:
A.    The study progress reports and a final study report.
B.    Progress in implementation of study recommendations.
Implementation Agency: XHHAB and PEO
Implementation Period: 2002-2005
-35 -



II.     MONITORING PLAN
COMPONENT              2002                2003           2004                2005              2006            2007
A. Institutional  Prepare a five-year  Progress report for  Progress report  Progress report  Progress report  General
Development      IDRP. Joint review  joint review by     for joint review  for joint review  for joint review  report on
and Reform        by October based   October.            by October.       by October..      by October.       actual
Plan (IDRP)       on actual status of                                                                          implement-
institutional reform                                                                          ation status
of XCD and its                                                                                of IDRP.
affiliated agencies.  .  . .
B. Traffic        Report on S201 -   Presentation of     Presentation of   Presentation of   Presentation of    General
afety            accident status and  progress report   progress report   progress report   summary report    report on
black spots iden-   about black spot   about black spot   about black'spot  about black spot  highway
tification prior to  improvement and   improvement and   improvement and    improvement and   safety
rehabilitation;     model project of   model project of  model project of   model project of  component.
safety audit report  S201 by the end   S201 by the end   S201 by the end    S201 by the end
at preliminary      of the year.       of the year.       of the year.      of the year.
design phase.
C. Institutional  Xinjiang 210 pm,   Xinjiang 125 pm,    Xinjiang 150 pm,  Xinjiang 100 pin,  Presentation of
Strengthening    domestic 34 pm,     domestic 33 pm,     domestic 18 pm,   domestic 10 pm,  final Institutional
and Staff         overseas 21 pm,    overseas 16 pm,     overseas 6 pm,    overseas 2 pm,   Strengthening and
Training (prm     overseas study tour  overseas study tour  overseas study  overseas study  Staff Training
Derson/month)     8 pm, progress     8 pm, progress      tour 10 pin,      tour 11 pm,      Report
report to be        report to be       progress report to  progress report to
presented and a     presented and a    be presented and   be presented and
two-year roliing   two-year rolling    a two-year rolling  a two-year rolling
training program to  training program to  training program  training program
be updated.         be updated.        to be updated.    to be updated.
D. Toll Highway   A detailed toll   'Final toll study    Toll system to be  AdjustmenV trial  Annual report
Study             study action plan to  report to be    installed on the   of toll system,   on toll
be prepared and     presented          basis of study     operators training  highway
survey to be                           results            and equipment to  operation.
I conducted                                                 be used
E(1). Highway     Data collection for  CPMS reports      Annual repon on   Annual repon on    Annual report on
Management        input to CPMS.     prepared by 4-2003  highway           highway            highway
and                                  (condition reports,  maintenance and  maintenance and    maintenance and
Maintenance                          M&R treatment       road condition.   road condition.   road condition.
mprovement                           plans, budget
allocations) based
on data of 2002.
E(2). Equip-      EAMS development   Overseas study tour  Completion of    Series reports     Progress report
ment asset        plan based on Bank  and selection of   EAMS and series   prepared on the    on
management        financed fleet,    foreign specialists  reports prepared  basis of EAMS     implementation
system (EAMS)     training specs. and  for training and  on basis of       specs and user's   of EAMS.
report by October   consultants for    EAMS specs.       trainin'g.
2002                EAMS.
F. Transport      Surveys of freight  Domestic/overseas  Review of study   Progress report    Progress report
Facilitation      market to establish  study tours,     recommendations    on                 on
the feasibility of a  investigation of  and preparation  implementation     implementation
Road Transport Ser-  various organization  of Action Plan.  of Action Plan.  of Action Plan.
vices Information   modes.
Center (RTSIC)
- 36 -



Annex 2.2
Suwmary of Training Program
Xinjiang                Domestic                 Abroad              Abroad Study
Top i cs              No.     Prs.     RIB     No.    Prs    RMB     No.     Prs.     USD      No.    Prs     USD
/M      (000)           . /M  (000)             /M     (000)            . /M   (000)
Highway supervision            50      50      110            =               15     15                       =
ighway safety                150      150              18    36              8       8
vironmental monitoring       20      20       44
ressway operation          100      100     220     15      15     75                                8      4      39. 2
d management
ighway maintenance           100      100     220                                                      8      4      39.2
oreign consulting expert __=____(2)                                                 (4)      (80)            =
dainistration of             100      100     220                                                      6      3      29.4
intenance equipment                                                       _
oreign consulting expert               -                                     (3)    (6)     (120)
dministration of                                       20     10     50       8      8        76
ighway construction
lic management                                      =      =                                         8      4      39.2
nstruction management                                                       6       6        57
information system
inancial management                                    10     5      25                                4      2       20
udit                                                                         2       2        19
uman resource                                                                                         10      5       49
evelopment                       _
esting                        15      15       33      8      8      40
ter application           50      50      110      = 
ighway planning and                                                                                    8      4      39.2
esign                                                                                                      I
Expressway toll                                                                                         6      3      29.4
nanagement
iighway management system                              12      6      30                                8      4      39. 2
laws and regulations
lxprossway transportation                               10     5      25
management
,oods circulation                                       10     5      25                                4      2       20
iighway transportation                                                                                  4      2       20
nanagement
iighway transport economy                                                      6      6        57
adjustment and planning
ransport and environment                               10     5      25 -
Sub-Total              585     585      957     113    95     295     4s               209      74     37     363,9
. (Consultants costs)         _                                   I          (5)    (10)     (200)
TOTAL COST: RMB1,252,000 and $772,800, equivalent to $923,643
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Local       Foreign-       Total
Project!Cost By.Component                US $million  US $million. ; US:$million
KSH - Civilworks                                         110.11       101.28       211.39
- E&M works                                           1.52         6.10         7.62
- Service facilities                                 7.16          6.59        13.75
- Works supervision                                  7.13          1.29         8.42
- Resettlement                                      14.39          0.00        14.39
LRRP - Civil works                                       26.80         15.00        41.80
[ST                                                       0.50          0.36         0.86
Traffic safety                                             2.63         0.08         2.71
RMMI                                                       0.05         0.57         0.62
RTSIS                                                      0.05         0.11         0.16
Toll Study                                                 0.02         0.06         0.08
Strengthening of laboratories and O&M services             3.61         8.04         11.65
Total Baseline Cost                                      173.97       139.48        313.45
Physical Contingencies                                    7.02         6.02         13.04
Price Contingencies                                       3.21         3.00          6.21
Total Project Costs'            184.20       148.50        332.70
Front-end fee                    1.50          1.50
Total Financing Required             184.20       150.00       334.20
Local       Foreign'       Total-
Project Cost By-Category                US $million  US $Million   US $million
Works                                                     146.04         128.97       275.01
Goods                                                       6.11           8.34        14.45
Services                                                    7.19           1.41         8.60
Training                                                    0.25           0.75         1.00
Resettlement                                               14.39                       14.39
Contingencies                                              10.22          9.03         19.25
Total Project Costs1   184.20         148.50       332.70
Front-end fee                    1.50          1.50
Total Financing Required    184.20        150.00        334.20
identifiable taxes and duties are 15 (US5m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 319.2 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 46.99
% of total project cost net of taxes.
-38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                          Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial Analysis'
Analysis                                 Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits:                    22,132.4             7,691.1
RMB million
Costs:                         3,319.2            2,492.3
RMB million
Net Benefits:                18,813.2             5,198.8
RMB million
IRR:                             21.0                 2.8
In%
I The valuc of financial benefits is lower than that of economic benefits because of controls on the toll charges for thc highway and the
non-revcnue-eaming roads under the LRRP.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The overall EIRR of the project (including KSH and the twelve local roads ) is 21.0 percent and the
NPV (12%) is 1.98 billion RMB. The overall EIRR of the project is summarized as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (m! %)  NPV R.MB million, 12%)
Kuitun - Sailimuhu Highway:
Section 1: Kuitun-Usu           20.6               178.2
Section 2: Usu- Bole            18.2             1,007.2
Section 3: Bole-Sailimuhu       31.1               348.2
Subtotal               19.6             1.549.6
Local Road Rehabilitation Program  32.2             433.5
Total                 21.0             1 983 1
Main Assumptions:
Preface
1.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two project components:
a) new construction and upgrading of a 302.6 km Kuitun - Sailimuhu Highway (KSH) and
b) upgrading of twelve rural roads (total 603 km) in the poor areas under the plan of Local Roads
Rehabilitation Program (LRRP).
2.       The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted operating data on traffic, vehicle operating cost (VOC),
economic project cost and transport user benefits. The main inputs to and assumptions for the evaluation are:
- 39 -



a) capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect February 2002 prices;
b) the benefit stream, also reflecting February 2002 prices, is comprised of savings in VOC, travel time
savings through reduced congestion on the existing route, and reduction accident costs;
c) an assumed project life of 20 years, the capital investment period during 2001-2008, depending on the
road; being evaluated and
d) full benefits starting to accrue on KSH in 2006, for the twelve rural roads from 2003 to 2006 (depend on
the roads being considered).
3.      This Annex is comprised of three parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of KSH; Part nI is the economic
evaluation of the twelve rural roads under LRRP; and Part III is the overall economic evaluation of the project,
including probabilistic risk analysis.
PART I: KUITUN - SAILIMUHU HIGHWAY
4.      For purpose of evaluation, the KSH has been further divided into three sections:
Length of the      Length of the new
existing road (kn)     highway (kn)
Section 1: Kuitun-Usu           18.5                 18.0
Section2: Usu-Bole             235.5                229.0
Section 3: Bole-Sailimuhu       58.0                 55.6
Total                 312.0                302.6
Highway Expansion Plan -Justification for Investment
5.      Overview. Xinjiang has a vast land area (1.66 million km2) and is an inland transport hub located in the
western region of China serving the east-west bound transport for linking central Asia and Xinjiang to China's east
coastal areas. Tianshan Mountain lies in the middle of Xinjiang, crossing from west to east and divides the land into
two large basins- Junggar Basin (North) and Tarim Basin (South). The desert and mountains constitute the major
terrain and 25 percent of the oasis land inhabits over 90 percent of total population (17.7 million). Most of
economic activities (about 80 percent of GDP) are generated from the northern part of Xinjiang. Basically, the
entire region of Xinjiang is being classified by the State as a poverty region.
6.      Currently, GOC is planning to build two vertical highway routes, two horizontal highway routes and three
main highway corridors before 2020. One of the horizontal highway routes passes through the northern part of
Xinjiang from east to west - Lianyungang/Korgas Highway (LKH). The total length of LKH is about 4,400 km. The
length of LKH in Xinjiang is about 1,430 km. Except for the project section, all other parts of LKH in Xinjiang are
either completed or under construction. Given the important role of the highway corridor to the local economy and
the near completion of other sections, the proposed project has the highest priority in Xinjiang's regional highway
development plan.
Level and Timing of Investment
7.      For this highway corridor, motorized traffic on the road has been increasing an overall average of 10.2
percent per year between 1990-2000 and by 2000 had reached 2,100-6,000 motorized vehicles per day throughout its
length. Non motorized and other traffic (bicycles, animal carts, small farm tractors and motorcycles etc) add to an
equivalent of about another 100-200 motorized vehicles per day. Even with a modest projected 6.2 percent annual
growth, motorized traffic alone in this highway corridor would reach between 3,100 - 8,500 vehicles per day by
2005, the proposed full opening year. This would exceed the capacity of the existing road. An economic assessment
of the optimum opening year of the highiway shows that two out of the three sections of the road (or over 80% of the
road in length) reached its capacity before 2000, so the optimum timing is now to construct the road as quickly as
possible.
-40 -



Section I      Section 2       Section3
Kuitun - Usu     Usu - Bole   Bole- Sailimuhu
Road Class (old road / new road)     I / Expressway   Ill / Class I   ll I Class 11
Road Condition (old road / new road)   Fair / Good    Fair / Good     Poor / Good
Terrain                                   Flat           Flat            Hilly
Capacity (AADT/day) (old road / new road)  2,600/ 20,000  2,600 / 12,500  2,200 / 5,000
Motorized Traffic - 2000 (AADT/day)      6,000          2,900           2,100
Year for Capacity                      Before 2000    Before 2000       2001
Optimum Opening Year                  Before 2000     Before 2000        2000
Proposed Opening Year                 October 2005   October 2005    October 2005
Highway Corridor Traffic
8.       Estimates of base year traffic were made on the basis of routine traffic counts and a comprehensive origin
and destination (OtD) survey that took place on November 11, 1999 (updated on August 20001. Projection of base,
generated and diverted traffic were made for 26 zones on the basis of a conventional growth model. A regression
analysis was used to derive a relationship between economic growth and road transport demand. Based on the local
economic growth and the traffic demand, it is estimated that traffic growth in the project corridor will be overall 6.2
percent per year between 2000-2006, 4.2 percent between 2006-2015, and 2.3 percent between 2015-2025. The
overall traffic growth rates are summarized as follows:
Annual Traffic Growth Rate
_                                       _   _  .   _  . _  '   U*a._. ...... _ :__:__s__ ........... . .. _ sWN$ . ]_1 1 ] - ....... .. _ > __. _ .. . . . ... ..
Car      Bus & Truck      Average
Actual:    1990-2000        15.1%        9.3%           10.2%
Projection: 2000-2006        7.2%        5.9%            6.2%
2006-2015         5.2%        4.0%            4.2%
2015-2025         3.2%        2.0%            2.3%
9.       Alternatives. In the feasibility study, two altemative route alignments were considered, i.e. the north
alignment, central alignment and south alignment. Each alternative was compared on the basis of costs, benefits,
service to local cities and relationship to future economic development. The south alignment was selected on the
basis of least overall cost and without having any additional environmental or resettlement consequences compared
with the other two alternatives (details are available in the feasibility study reports).
Traffic on the Highway
10.     The new highway is planned to become operational in 2005. Based on the information provided by the
O/D survey and the feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by using financial VOC for the road users
as an independent variable, with the impacts of the level of proposed tolls on the new highway, travel distance, and
experience from other recently Bank financed highways in China. The results of the potential division of traffic to
the new road shows that between 61-67 percent of motorized corridor traffic may be diverted to the new highway,
depending on the road section and for the opening year of KSH. Sensitivity tests with lower diversion rates show
that the KSH would still be justified with an average division rate of about 50%, a rate exceeded in most the toll
highways so far financed by the Bank in China.
ll.     Traffic generated is assumed to be 10 percent of the basic traffic. Although there is an existing railway line
between Kuitun and Jinhe (near Bole, about 170 1am), no diversion of traffic from the railway to the new highway has
been taken into account. The railway undertakes mainly long distance bulk freight transport with different O/D and
the average freight transport distance for railway in 2000 is estimated to be 845 km. Most low valued bulk freight
presently carried by the railway would not be affected by its faster times but the higher tariffs of the highway (rail
tariffs are about 0.26 RMB per ton-kmn compared with about 0.32 RMB per ton-km for road transport). The highway
corridor traffic forecast, by sections, is summarized as follows:
- 41 -



Normal Traffic, by Sections (AADT)
Section 1     Section 2      Section3 /_I
Kuitun - Usu    Usu - Bole   Bole - Sailimuhu
The existine road:
Actual        1990          2,427          1,011            746
1995          3,723         1,750           1,403
1998          5,106         2,364           1,842
1999          5,621         2,600           2,026
2000          5,991         2,902           2,113
Forecast      2006          2,797          1,613            --
2015          3,835         2,246
2025          4,522         2,698             --
The new hiehway:
Forecast      2006          5,732          2,538          3,094
2015          8,414         3,764           4,640
2025          10,634        4,820           6,039
L/1: The old road upgrading.
Economic Costs
12.    Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by the elimination of price contingency, interest
payment during the construction, taxes and custom duty on imported materials by the application of shadow prices to
each section of the new highway. The overall average shadow price is 1.10 and the resulting overall economic cost
is similar to the financial cost.
Economic Benefits
13.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings on the new highway for normal
and generated traffic (summarized as below), (b) time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road, and
(c) lower accident costs. The benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion were quantified. The value of
passenger time savings was estimated at Y 1.5 per passenger-hour, based on updated values from a report on
feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report,
March 1996). The same source was also used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of road. The benefits of
generated traffic were calculated using the standard demand curve analysis and an assumed linear relationship
between demand and travel cost over the relevant cost range.
-42 -



Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(RMB per km, February 2002 prices)
With the Project              Without the Project
Section 1  Section 2  Section 3  Section 1  Section 2  Section 3
Car                 0.748      0.842     0.958     0.960     0.998      1.081
Medium bus          1.330      1.475     1.614      1.944    2.021      1.994
Large bus           2.891      3.073     3.270     4.104     4.181      4.091
Small truck         1.353      1.456     1.595      1.667    1.744      1.850
Medium truck        1.753      1.856     2.028     2.057     2.134      2.318
Large truck         2.312      2.471     2.647     2.736     2.813      3.090
Tractor/trailer     3.611      3.770     4.294     4.219     4.296      4.966
Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(RMB per 1,000 vehicle-kn, February 2002 prices)
Medium   Large   Small  Medium    Large   Trailer/
Car      bus     Bus   Truck   truck    Truck  Container
The New Hiehwav
Fuel                     306      416    900     576      736    .750       840
Tires                     35        35    130     55       130    480      1,073
Maintenance              330      441    912     648      752     802       923
Crew                       1         3      3      3        3       3         3
Depreciation              26       102   279      71       132    277       772
Subtotal          698       997  2.224    1.353   1.753   2.312     3,611
Time value of passengers  50       333   667
Total               748      1.330  2.891   1.353    1.753  2.312     3.611
The Existing Road
Fuel                    408       544   1,125    800      928     990      1,140
Tires                     39       40     149     61      140     540      1,188
Maintenance              367       490  1,013    720      835     891      1,026
Crew                       4         7      7      7        7       7         7
Depreciation              29       113   310      79      147     308       858
Subtotal          847      1.194  2,604   1 667   2.057   2736      4.219
Time value of passengers  113      750  1,500
Total                960      1.944  4.104   1.667   2.057   2.736     4.219
Economic Evaluation
14.     Total costs and benefits streams, Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net Present Value (NPV),
for each section of the expressway were calculated. The overall EIRR for KSH is estimated to be 19.6 percent with
the following results for each road section and summarized as follows:
Economic Evaluation of KSH
NPV (12%,       Extra        Extra people    Minority as %
EIRR       million      children    attending health   of the total
(in %)     RMB)        attending       services /_i      local
school/ i.                     population
Kuitun-Usu          20.6        178.2       2,400           3,600            12.4
Usu - Bole          18.2      1,007.2       5,200           8,900            30.3
Bole-Sailimuhu      31.1       348.2          100             200            95.0
Whole route      19.6      1,549.6       7,700           12,700           25.9
/_I: Inforrnation was collected to establish baseline data on the indirect benefits derived from improved
access to education and health care services. However, its quantifiable benefits were not included.
15.     The distribution of the estimated benefits shows that (a) the main beneficiary is the road user on this
highway corridor, (b) the traffic that uses the KSH constitutes the majority of the road user's benefits (61.0%), and
(c) trucks will receive 48.6% of the project benefits, while cars and buses will receive 44.2%. Summary the
breakdown of the benefits as follows:
-43 -



Distribution of the Project Benefits (NPV, 12%, million RMB)
Road user       Road agency         Society
Total benefits           3,311.3         (1,761.7)         1,549.6
Of which: Road user:
a. By traffic:
Expressway traffic  Generated traffic  Existing road traffic  Road safety  Total
2,018.5            100.9            1,116.1           75.8         3,311.3
61.0%              3.0%             33.7%             2.3%        100.0%
b. By vehicles:
Cars              Buses            Trucks           Trailers      Total
692.9              737.1           1,608.6           272.7        3,311.3
20.9%              22.3%            48.6%             8.2%        100.0%
Sensitivity Analysis
16.     The basic evaiuation of the project, by section and on the whole, indicates that the selected alignment is
economically viable, and the sensitivity tests with respect to higher cost, lower benefits and traffic projection, zero
value of time and zero generated traffic benefit to the new highway maintain this position. The analysis of the
optimum year for opening of the road showed that delaying the completion by two years would reduce the EIRR by
about 4.3 percent.
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of KSH
EIRR (%)    NPV (12%, million RMB)
Delay the completion by one year (to October 2006)  17.3        1,081.5
Higher capital cost (+25%) (a)                 16.7             1,093.1
Lower benefits (-20%) (b)                      16.7              874.4
Combine (a) and (b)                            14.0              433.9
Zero value oftime                              17.3             1,018.7
Zero generated traffic                         19.1             1,425.0
Lower traffic projection                       16.2              719.7
Switching values                          % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                        188 %
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%                    53 %
17.     In addition, the sensitivity of the evaluation resulting from variations in the costs and benefits of the project
indicate that the conditions for the project's viability to fall below the minimum acceptable, that is, a NPV of less
than zero by using 12 percent discount rate or an EIRR of less than 12 percent, are unlikely to occur. The benefits
would have to fall to less than 53 percent of those in base case with no change in costs, the costs would have to
increase to more than 1.88 times those of the base costs, or the costs would have to increase by 131 percent and the
benefits fall to 70 percent at the same time.
PART II: LOCAL ROADS REHABILITATION PROGRAM (LRRP)
Selection of Highways and Its Traffic
18.     The LRRP consists of twelve local roads, classified by XCD as among the worst roads in the region. The
main objective of rehabilitation program is to upgrade existing local roads to Class II or Class III roads. The total
length is 603 km and listed below:
-44 -



Length (km)  Construction period
1.   Santai- Qitai                34            2002-2003
2.   Mulei- Qitai                 55            2002-2003
3.   Bayituohai- Zhaosu           84            2002-2003
4.   Tacheng- Eming               50            2004-2005
5.   Awati- Akesu                 59            2003-2004
6.   Baicheng- Yuergun            30            2003-2004
7.  Jiashi - Sule                 20            2005-2006
8.   Yuepuhu- Tazihong (G315)     25            2005-2006
9.   Keriya - Pishan              43            2005-2006
10.  Zeketai- Nalati               48            2004-2005
11.  Qiaoerma- Zhongfengchang      89            2005-2006
12.   Fuhai- Guoyingmuchang        66            2004-2005
Total               603
19.     Since all the twelve roads are located in the same region, the local economic development and traffic
patterns are quite similar. Based on the actual traffic levels and local economic growth rates, traffic growth rates
have been estimated, depending on the location of the roads, to be 3.0-5.0 percent from 2000-2005, reduced by I
percent for each of the 5 years from 2005-2025.
Economic Costs and Benefits
20.      Financial costs have been converted to economic costs using the same method and factors as for the KSH,
with the following results:
Financial and Economic Cost For LRRP (million RMB)
Financial        Economic
1.   Santai- Qitai                    27.05            26.86
2.   Mulei- Qitai                     43.76            43.45
3.   Bayituohai- Zhaosu               33.60            33.36
4.   Tacheng- Eming                   35.00            34.75
5.   Awati- Akesu                     53.10            52.72
6.   Baicheng- Yuergun                27.41            27.21
7.  Jiashi - Sule                     10.00             9.93
8.   Yuepuhu- Tazihong (G315)         22.50            22.34
9.   Keriya - Pishan                  31.80            31.57
10.   Zeketai- Nalati                  33.60            33.36
11.   Qiaoerma- Zhongfengchang         26.70            26.51
12.   Fuhai- Guoyingmuchang            59.40            58.98
Total                 403.92            401.04
21.     The principal evaluated benefits of the local roads would be reduced VOCs through providing a better road
surface and the associated upgrading of road Class would also result in higher traffic speeds and improvement of
road roughness index. In most of these less densely populated rural areas, it is assumed that there is no generated
traffic.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
22.     The best estimates of EIRRs for the twelve local roads range from 12.2 percent to 49.2 percent. The
overall EIRR and NPV (12%) for the LRRP is 32.2 percent and 433.5 million RMB respectively.
-45-



EIRR and NPV Summor LRRP
NPV (12%,    Extra children    Extra people    Minority at
EIRR       million      attending     attending health    of the tot:
(in %)     RMB)         school /_u      services it         local
, _,,   ,    ,   ,          _                              ,,           populatie
1.   Santai- Qitai             34.7       50.3          5.880            4,190            24.5
2.   Mulci-Qitai               30.8       66.6          4.740            3,160             24.7
3.   Bayituohai- Zhaosu        47.9       104.0         1,860            1,430             68.9
4.   Tachcng- Eming            49.2       81.1          4,010            3,090             41.3
5.   Awati-Akcsu               40.7      109.1           950               730             53.1
6.   Baicheng- Yucrgun         22.4       46.2          1,310            1,200             97.9
7.   Jiashi - Sulc             44.6       19.7          2,610            1,970             96.5
8.   Yucpuhu-Tazihong(G315)    31.9       26.6          3,560            3,230             93.7
9.   Kcriya - Pishan           21.8       20.0          1,840             1,390            98.7
10.  Zckctai-Nalati            18.9       46.9           670              370              59.3
Il.  Qiaocnna- Zhongfengchang  22.8       44.5          1,280             980              71.6
12.  Fuhai- Guoyingmuchang     12.2       66.5          1,080              770             43.8
Total            32.2       433.5         29,790           22,510            58.6
/_LI: Infonmation was collected to establish baselinc data on the indirect benefits dcrvcd from improved access to
education and health carc services. However, its quantifiablc bcncfits were not includcd.
23.      The risks associated with evaluation of the local roads are that traffic will grow more slowly than projected,
that the civil works will be more expensive than projected and that the savings in VOC will be less than expected.
All these risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests and the evaluation results were found to be robust to all of
them. For the project component to be non-acceptable (i.e. EIRR of less than 12% or NPV of zero), the benefits
would have to fall to less than 40.8 percent of those in base case with no change in costs, the costs would have to
increase to more than 2.46 times those of the base costs, or the costs would have to increase by 145 percent and the
benefits fall to 59 percent at the same time.
PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Econornic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
24.      The overall EIRR of the project (including KSH and the twelve local roads ) is 21.0 percent and the NPV
(12%) is 1.98 billion RMB. The overall EIRR of the project is summarized as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %/o)  NPV (RMB million, 12%/o)
Kuitun - Sailimuhu Highway:
Section l: Kuitun - Usu            20.6                178.2
Section 2: Usu- Bole               18.2              1,007.2
Section 3: Bole -Sailimuhu         31.1                348.2
Subtotal                 19.6              1.549.6
Local Road Rehabilitation Program    32.2               433.5
Total                   21.0              1 983 1
Project Risks
25.      All sections of the KSH and LRRP show acceptable and robust economic returns. XCD has rich
experiences in construction and operation of expressway and local road projects so the technical risks of
implementing the project are minimal. Physically, the only remaining tangible risks are that prolonged delays may
occur in the course of implementation due to very tight construction schedule and budget. This will be tested
through the probabilistic risk analysis to estinate the degree of uncertainty for the project.
-46 -



Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of KSH
26.     To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo
techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at random between
set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo simulation provides
probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these distributions, we can assess the
risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk analysis). The product of the analysis is a
judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on the likelihood of each value within this range. The
degree of uncertainty factors in the analysis also includes, particularly, the lessons learned from the completion of the
first Xinjiang highway project.
27.     For the twelve local roads, the sum of capital cost constitutes only about 14 percent of total capital
investment. In view of their higher EIRR and lower capital investment, the probabilistic risk analysis for the project
is focused instead on the construction of KSH. The factors with the most uncertainty associated with the economic
evaluation of KSH have been identified by the following: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) traffic diversion ratio to the new
highway, (c) the value of vehicle operating costs, (d) capital investment, and (e) delay the new highway opening year
to October 2006. The results of probabilistic risk analysis shows that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 19.5%.
The low scenario is 12.7% and the high scenario is 27.5%. The standard error of the mean is 0.4%. The detailed
results of Monte Carlo test and probabilistic risk analyses are shown in Appendix A and summarized as follows:
Summary of KSH Probabilistic Risk Analyses
Most likely  Standard Error of
Range of EIRR     EIRR           the Mean
Section l: Kuitun-Usu    13.1%-28.8%       20.2%            0.5%
Section 2: Usu - Bole    12.1% - 26.3%     18.5%            0.4%
Section 3: Bole - Sailimuhu  20.7%  36.9%  28.3%            0.5%
Total           12.7% - 27.5%     19.5%            0.4%
- 47 -



APPENDLX A
XINJIANG: KUITUN - SAILIMUHU HIGHWAY
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Rangc is from -10.0% to 60.0% EIRR (in%)
Entire Range is from -1.2% to 97.3% EIRR (in%)
After 1,077 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.4%
Statistics:                            Value       Percentiles:
Trials                            1077
Mean                             21.9%                            Percentile   EIRR (in%)
Mcdian                           19.5%                                  0%          -1.2%
Mode                                ---                                10%           5.8%
Standard Dcviation               14.4%       Low Sccnario             20%            9.9%
Variance                          2.1%              =                  30%          12.7%
Skewness                           1.21      Most Likely               40%          16.3%
Kurtosis                           5.47              =                 50%          19.5%
Cocff. of Variability              0.66      High Scenario             60%          23.0%
Range Minimum                    -1.2%       c                         70%         27.5%
Range Maximum                    97.3%                                 80%          32.3%
Rangc Width                      98.4%                                90%          40.7%
Mean Std. Error                  0.44%                                100%         97.3%
I                   Foreast: Kultun- Salimnuhu Highway (2008)
1 1,077 Trils                          Frquency Qiwt                             19 Outliers
.030                                                                    32
as_.022                                      _  ___     __l_        _   .24
X .015                                                                     l.   11
.10.0%          7 5%           2.0%           425%           s00%
EIRR (W%)
Assumptlons
Traffic Growth Rate                                Traffic Diversion Ratio
Normal distribution with parameters:               Normal distribution with parametcrs:
Mean               90.0%                           Mean                    90.0%
Standard Dcv.      20.0%                           Standard Dev.           15.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity      Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 89.6%                 Mean valuc in simulation was 89.8%
Value of the VOC                                   Capital Cost
Triangular distribution with parameters:           Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum            90.0%                           Minimum                100.0%
Likelicst          100.0%                          Likelicst              115.0%
Maximum            110.0%                          Maximum                130.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%             Selected rangc is from 100.0% to 130.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.1%                Mean valuc in simulation was 121.4%
-48 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of KSH
EIRR (%)     NPV (12%, million RMB)
Delay the completion by one year (to October 2006)  17.3              1,081.5
Higher capital cost (+25%) (a)                     16.7               1,093.1
Lower benefits (-20%) (b)                          16.7                874.4
Combine (a) and (b)                                14.0                433.9
Zero value of time                                 17.3               1,018.7
Zero generated traffic                             19.1               1,425.0
Lower traffic projection                           16.2                719.7
Switching values                              % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                             188 %
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%                         53 %
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Preface
1.     The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two parts. Part I is for the revenue earning entity;
and Part II is for the non-revenue earning entity. Since KSH is designed as a toll road and is the only road in the
project which generates the revenue (the total cost of KSH constitute about 86 percent of total project cost) and there
is no revenue for the twelve local roads under the Local Road Rehabilitation Program (LRRP), Part I will be focused
on KSH and Part II will be focused on LRRP. Except for the Bank's loan, KSH does not have any other outstanding
long-term debt. To measure the opportunity cost of capital for the local grants, an overall average of 5% is applied.
The financial cost of the project is calculated on the basis of the weighted average cost of the various sources of
funds. The weighted average financial cost of the capital is estimated to be 5.0% (50% from the Bank at 5%, 50%
grants, 44.1% from MOC and 5.9% from XCD, at 5%).
PART I: THE FINANCLAL EVALUATION OF KSH
2.      KSH is planning to be put it into operation in October 2005. XCD will establish an operation entity in
charge of KSH. The operation entity, on behalf of XCD, will be responsible for the day to day management,
operation, maintenance, and development of the highway. The main financial revenue of the KSH would be the toll
income from the road users and the toll charges are strictly controlled by the government. Starting 2001, the
government granted the tax exemption status to XCD. The KSH will operated as the tax free operation entity.
The Financial Objective
3.      XCD has clearly indicated that the purpose of toll collection on KSH is to repay the Bank's loan, to cover
operating and non-operating expenses and routine maintenance, instead of maximizing the financial rate of return on
the investment. The toll charges were on the low side (the net weighted average is about 0.62 Yuan per vehicle-km)
with a low annual growth assumption. The toll charges forecast has been assumed to be increasing once every five
years (20 percent or average 3.7 percent p.a.).
Financial Forecast
4.      Toll. The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (small passenger cars, large buses, small trucks,
medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Some toll exempted vehicles (police, ambulance and
military as well as some sections are operated as open highway) are expected to be 10 percent of total traffic.
Currently, the toll in Xinjiang is the lowest among all the Bank's financed highway projects in China. In 2001, the
toll in Xinjiang is only about 54% of the average toll charged by other completed highway projects financed by the
Bank. Even with the expected toll inicreases, the toll for Xinjiang in 2005 still maintains about 92 percent of the
average toll charged by the other five provinces in 2000.
- 50 -



Toil Charges Comparisons (Yuan/ vehicle-km)
Small   Medium    Large   Heavy    Extra
vehicle  vehicle  vehicle  vehicle  large    Average
Tolls- Xinilan:
2000 (a)       0.200    0.350   0.400    0.800     --       0.438
2005 (b)       0.350    0.525   0.700    1.400     --       0.744
Tolls (in 2000):
1. Hebei         0.280    0.460    0.740   0.930    0.5Y/tk    0.603
m
2. Henan         0.280    0.460    0.740   0.930    0.5Y/tk    0.603
m
3. Shanghai'     0.600    0.550    0.600   0.600    0.600      0.588
4. Zhejiang*     0.450    0.800    1.200    1.600     --       1.013
5. Guangdong     0.450    0.900    1.462   2.138      --       1.238
Average (c)     0.412    0.634    0.948    1.240     --       0.809
Ratios:
(a)/(c)      48.5%    55.2%    42.2%   64.5%              54.1%
(b)/(c)      85.0%    82.8%    73.8%   112.9%              92.0%
*:Plus the basic fee (YNch.)  5.0  10.0  15.0  20.0    25.0
5.      Operations. Based on the actual operating practice of the existing six toll highways, the operating costs of
KSH can be categorized: working cost (a. wage and benefits, b. maintenance, c. operating materials and supplies, d.
administration, e. others), and operating cost (working cost + depreciation). All other expenses e.g. interest
payments of the loan and others, are also included in the calculation of the profitability of KSH.
6.      Profitability. The tax exemption status of KSH (par. 2) will inject, by estimation, an additional revenue of
40 million Yuan annually to the highway. The results show, except for the year (2015) when major maintenance
takes place, that KSH would be able to pay all expenditures, including operation, non-operating expenses and routine
maintenance, for operation of the highway (Income statement, page I of 3, Appendix A).
7.      Cash flow. The low toll charges policy on vehicles may not affect the daily operation of the highway. The
capital requirements for the loan repayment and the major maintenance, however, would generate cash pressure on
KSH. The deficit from the operations may be met by transferring the reserve funds from the previous years. It is
expected that KSH would not need any external cash injection over the life of the loan (Sources and applications of
funds, page 2 of 3, Appendix A).
8.      Leverage. The high portion of the loan (50%) would affect the leverage of KSH in the early years of
operations which will erode the part of the highway equity and cause the debt/ equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the
financial leverage of the company) to not be sound until 2011. But this will not affect the liquidity of KSH. The
current ratio would be in the sound range of 3.1 and over (to avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio
should be more than 1.0). (Balance sheet, page 3 of 3, Appendix A). To guarantee the financial viability, XCD has
reiterated their full commitment to the highway and released an official document to the Bank for full financial
support to the KSH. The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown in Appendix B.
9.      Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR). Based on the proposed toll level, KSH may not need any
external cash injection. But, the low toll level and the low toll growth assumptions would generate a great impact on
the rate return to the capital investment. The result of the financial evaluation shows that the FIRR for the project is
expected to be 2.8 percent. And, the FIRR would not change much if they delay the KSH opening to October 2006
(2.4 percent).
10.     Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis. To measure the degree of financial uncertainty for the project, a
probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The five most uncertain factors which may
affect the financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth, (b) toll charges, (c) total working costs, (d)
capital investment, and (e) delay in opening the highway to October 2006. The result reveals that the most likely
FIRR would be 1.2 percent, while the worst and the best FIRR would be -2.2.percent and 3.7 percent, respectively.
- 51 -



The detailed is in Appendix C and summarized as follows:
Summary of Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Financial Sensitivity Tests  Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
Open in    Open in          Rangc of     Most Likcly  Std. Error o1
Oct. 2005  Oct. 2006       FIRR / NPV    FIRR / NPV   Thc Mean
FIRR (in %)                2.8        2.4           -2.2-- 3.7       1.2        0.2
NPV (5.0%, million Yuan)  -501.9    -584.6       -1,960.8 - -676.3  -1,305.6    40.2
Impact on Level of the Toil Charge
11.     The level of tolls need to satisfy two objectives: (a) generate enough revenue to obtain the higher financial
rate of return on investment, but (b) not deter potential users and compromise economic objectives. These objectives
can be contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll while the latter requires a lower one. The analysis shows
that the overall average unit toll revenue for 2005 would be about 0.62 Yuan/veh-km, which should generate the
minimum sufficient funds to serve the repayment of the loan. Sensitivity tests to the level of tolls (see the table
below) showed that even at a toll of 3.0 Yuan/veh-km, both EIRR and FIRR are still justified. Beyond this rate, the
EIRR falls rapidly while the FIRR almost reaches its maximum. Further, if all construction costs were privately
financed instead of being covered by a 50% government grant, average tolls would need to be over 3.0 Yuan/veh-km
to generate optimal FIRR to providers of both debt and equity, and this toll level would substantially reduce the
project's economic benefits.
Sensitivity of Evaluation Results to Variations in Toil Charges
Average Toll charges (Yuan/veh-km)  EIRR (%)    FIRR (%)
0.31                   22.8          -11.4
0.62                    19.6          2.8
1.00                   18.4          11.2
2.00                    16.2        221.3
3.00                    13.3         24.9
5.00                    9.0          24.1
PART II: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF LRRP
12.     The twelve roads under LRRP are toll free roads. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue eamings
should ensure that XCD maintains a sound financial practice to minimize the financial risks, i.e. the lack of
counterpart funds for the construction including the future operating expenses to the project roads.
13.     XCD has provided the financing plan for total revenue and expenditure of XCD for the Ninth Five Year
Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000), the 10th FYP (2001 - 2005) and the draft of the 11 th FYP (2006 - 2010). Based on the
Xinjiang highway development plan, XCD has acquired the sufficient funds to cover the funds demanded on new
road construction and the existing road network maintenance. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio of XCD
would ensure the implementation of the development plan. The latest actual data from 2000 revealed that about 43
percent of XCD's total revenue are generated from the intemal cash flow. The detailed source and expenditure for
1996 - 2005 is shown in Appendix D of this Annex.
14.     Following the increases in the length of the provincial road network every year, XCD also provides
additional resources for maintenance on the existing road networks. During the 9th FYP and the I 0th FYP, the
increases in rate of an average unit road maintenance expenditure is much larger than the increases in rate of road
network. It is estimated that increases of road network and average unit maintenance expenditure for the 9th FYP
and the 10th FYP are 2.1 percent vs. 10.4 percent and 2.2 percent vs. 5.0 percent, respectively. The soundness of
these allocation in terms of (i) level of retums and (ii) distribution across types of works will be reviewed as part of
the LRRP. The overall program shows that the expenditures and road construction and maintenance for the
- 52 -



"toll-free" roads included in the project constitute only a small fraction of XCD's fund flow. Therefore the fiscal
impact would be minimal. Based on the XCD plan, the capital investment of LRRP is less thani 2.6 percent of the
annual total XCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure of LRRP is less than 1.5 percent of the
total maintenance expenditure of XCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest financial'risk
regarding availability of a counterpart fund for construction and maintenance of the project roads. The details are
shown in Appendix D of this Annex and summarized as follows:
XCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and !
Road Maintenance Expenditures.(in.%)
9tn FYP     10FYP
Average annual increase in the road network           2.1         2.2
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures  10.4         5.0
XCD: Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (million Yuan)
2002      2003     2004      2005      2Q0i
Investments and Revenue:
LRRP Investments (a)                  83.53    85.29    118.50    98.40      1 .2(
Total XCD Revenue (b)              3,940.09  4,371.04  4,608.39  4,743135  4,414.1-
Ratios(a)/(b)                         2.1%     2.0%      2.6%      2.1%      0.40,
Maintenance Expenditures:
LRRP (c)                                        2.36      4.52     6.11     10.4:
Total XCD Maintenance Expenditure (d)         517.54    563.20    610.63   700.0(
Ratios (c)/(d)                                 0.5%      0.8%      1.0%      1.5z
- 53 -



APPENDIX A
Page I of 3
Xinjiang III Highway Project
Income Statement
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2006   2007    2008  2009   2010   2011   2012  2013   2014   2015    2016
Traffic(million veht-km) /1   318.84  331.56 344.84 358.73 373.18 388.15 549.44 420.02 437.06  454.82 473.27
Revenue
Tolls                         197.86  205.28 213.02 221.16 229.61 285.97 296.84 308.09 319.94  332.25 414.63
Others                            -       -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -       -
Total                         197.86  205.28 213.02 221.16 229.61 285.97 296.84 308.09 319.94  332.25 414.63
ODeratina Costs
Wages and bcncfits             4.80    5.04   5.29   5.55  5.83   6.12   6.43   6.75  7.09    7.44   7.81
Maintenance                    16.18  16.98  17.83  18.72  19.66  20.64  21.69  22.76  23.90  290.17  26.35
Operatingmatenalsandsupplics   15.13   15.88  16.68  17.51  18.39  19.31  20.27  21.29  22.35  23.47  24.64
Administration & management    0.24    0.25   0.26   0.28  0.29   0.31   0.32   0.34  0.35    0.37   0.39
Others i2                      7.56    7.94   8.34   8.76  9.19   9.65  10.14  10.64  11.18   11.73  12.32
Totalworkingcosts             43.91   46.09  48.40  50.82  53.36  56.03  58.85  61.78  64.87  333.18  71.51
Depreciation          48.36   54.72  63.78  63.78  63.91  64.05  64.19  64.34  64.50  66.42  66.59
Total operating costs         92.27  100.8Q  112.18 114.60 117.27 120.08 123.04 126.12 129.37  399.60 138.10
Oneratine Profit               105.59  104.47 100.84 106.56 112.34 165.89 173.80 181.97 190.57  (67.35) 276.53
Financialchargcs:  IBRD           -       - 61.54   58.64  55.58  52.38  49.00  45.46  41.74  37.83  33.72
Others
Other income (cxpenses)           -       - (8.02) (8.03) (8.03) (8.02) (S.03) (8.03) (8.03)  (8.02) (8.03)
Profit Before Taxes            105.59  104.47  31.28  39.89  48.73 105.49 116.77 128.48 140.80 (113.201 234.78
Income tax /_3                    -       -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -       -      -
Net Profit AfterTaxes          IQ0.59  104.47  31.28  39.89  48.73 105.49 116.77 128.48 140.80 (113.20) 234.78
Il: The highway will bc opcned to traffic on Oct. I, 2005.
/_: Othcrs: Including highway research, studies and miscellaneous
/3: Starting 2001, thc highway is cxcmpt from all taxes.
- 54 -



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
Xinjiang III Highway Project
Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2001  2002   2003   2004  2005   2006   2007  2008   2009   2010   2011  2012   2013   2014   2015    2016
Sources:
Net profits           -      -      -     -      - 105.59 104.47  31.28  39.89  48.73 105.49 116.77 128.48 140.80 (113.20) 234.78
Dcprcciation          -      -      -     -      - 48.36  54.72  63.78  63.78  63.91  64.05  64.19  64.34  64.50  66.42  66.59
State contribution  69.00 115.00 253.00 276.00  50.50 161.00  49.00 126.50  -     -      -      -      -     -       -      -
XCD's contribution  11.95  13.82  33.60 25.39  19.53  20.74  17.73  4.58
Borrowing: IBRD       - 74.70 124.50 273.90 298.80  87.15 174.30 211.65     -     -      -      -      -     -       -      -
Local
Others                   -      -      -         -     -      -             -     -      -             -     -       -      -
Total       80.95 20352 411.10 575.29 368.83 422.84 400.22 437.79 103.67 112.64 169.54 180.96 192.82 205.30  (46.78) 301.37
ADfhications:
Capital expcnditurc  85.93 216.04 436.40 610.69 391.54 285.43 255.87 363.84  3.50  3.68  3.86  4.05  4.26  4.47   4.69   4.93
Other cxpenditurc     -      -      -     -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -             -      -
Loan repaymcnt:
IBRD            -     -      -      -     -      -      - 57.43  60.33  63.39  66.59  69.97  73.51  77.23  81.14  85.25
Local                                                          -     -      -      -      -     -      -       -      -
Changew/capital       -      -      -     -      -     - (0.40) (0.42) (0.45) (0.47) (3.10) (0.60) (0.61) (0.65)  (0.68) (4.53)
Total       85.93 216.04 436.40 610.69 391.54 285.43 255.47 420.85  63.38  66.60  67.35  73.42  77.16  81.05  85.15  85.65
Net Funds Flow   (4.98) (12.52) (25.30)(35.40) (22.71) 137.41 144.75  16.94  40.29  46.04 102.19 107.54 115.66 124.25 (131.93) 215.72
Open balance        - (4.98) (17.50)(42.80) (78.20) (0oo0.9) 36.50 181.25 198.19 238.48 284.52 386.71 494.25 609.91  734.16 602.23
Closingbalancc  (4.98) (17.50) (42.80)(78.20) (100.91) 36.50 181.25 198.19 238.48 284.52 386.71 494.25 609.91 734.16  602.23 817.95
D/S Cover                                                 --     1.34  1.39   1.44   1.93   2.00  2.08   2.15   (0.15)  2.95
-55 -



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
Xinjiang III Highway Project
Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2006    2007    2008   2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                  1465.34 1658.33 1932.68 1932.85 1936.78 1940.91 1945.25 1949.80 1954.58 2012.61 2017.88
Less: Dcprcciation        48.36  103.08  166.86  230.64  294.55  358.60  422.79  487.13  551.63  618.05  684.64
Net fixed assets  1416.98 1555.25 1765.82 1702.21 1642.23 1582.31 1522.46 1462.67 1402.95 1394.56 1333.24
Currcnt Assets
Inventory                  0.99    1.03    1.07    1.11    1.15    1.43    1.48   1.54    1.60    1.66    2.07
Reccivable                 0.49    0.51    0.53    0.55    0.57    0.71    0.74   0.77    0.80    0.83    1.04
Cash                       36.50  181.25  198.19  238.48  284.52  386.71  494.25  609.91  734.16  602.23  817.95
Subtotal        37.98  182.79     199.79   240.14 -286.24  388.85  496.47  612.22  736.56  604.72  821.06
Other Assets                    -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Total Assets       1449                628                 17.L6 201.93 2         2.139.51 1999.28 2154.30
Llabilities & Eauitv
State funds- Equity        583.54  691.86  764.73  801.29  85027  956.03 1073.09 1201.86 1342.97 1283.11 1518.23
L/T loans:  IERD           859.05 1033.35 1187.57 1127.24 1063.85  997.26  927.29  853.78  776.55  695.41  610.16
Local                       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Subtotal          859.05 1033.35 1187.57 1127.24 1063.85  997.26  927.29  853.78  77655  695.41  610.16
Currcnt Liabilities         12.37   12.83   13.31   13.82   14.35 . 17.87   18.55  19.25   19.99   20.76   25.91
Othcr Liabilities               -       -       -       -      -       -
Total LIabilIties & Equity  1454:  1738.4     l   19423  .        197.1  201893L 20724.89 2139.51  999.2  2154.30
Debt: capital ratio        59.5    59.9    60.8   58.5    55.6    51.1    46.4    41.5    36.6    35.1    28.7
Debt/ equity ratio        60/40   60/40   61/39   59/41   56/44   51/49   47/53   42/58  37/63   36/64   30/70
Current ratio              31      14.2    15.0    17.4   19.9    21.8    26.8    31.8    36.8    29.1    31.7
Fixcd assets: 80% of capital investment and 20/ of maintenance.
Equity = Total asset - Total Liabilities.
Current liabilities = 10% of toll revenue.
-56-



APPENDIX B
Xinjiang III Highway Project
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic (normal, AADT):
Small    Medium     Largc      Small    Mcdium      Large     Tractor
car       Bus       bus      truck      truck      tiLck     -Trailcr   Total
Scction 1:         Kuitun - Usu
2006               1,518       962       290        366      1,622        620       354     5,732
2015               2,409      1,401      421        488      2,360        902       433     8,414
2025               3,309      1,745      525        551      2,938       1,124      442    10,634
Section 11:        Usu - Bole
2006                 362       226       354        219       406         684       287     2,538
2015                600        345       538        306       567        1,041      367     3,764
2025                 867       452       706        363       673        1,364      395     4,820
Scction 111:       Bolc - Sailimuhu
2006                 302       191       479        148       566         960       448     3,094
2015                510        296       743        211       806        1,489      585     4,640
2025                 755       398       999        257       983       2,001       646     6,039
2. Toll Rates (Yuan/ veh-km):           Increase 20% every five year.
Small    Mcdium     Largc      Small    Mcdium      Large     Tractor
car       Bus       bus      truck      truck      truck     -Trailcr
2006             0.350     0.525     0.700      0.350     0.525      0.700       1.400
3. Opcrating Cost:                      Increase 5 % pa.
a. Wages and benefits:                Y 20,000/ staff/ year, 60 staffs/ station, 4 stations.
b. Maintcnance (million Yuan/ km):
Routine               Major
maintenance          Maintcnance
(annual)            (/10 years)
Expressway                 0.062                 0.720
Class I road               0.058                 0.660
Class II road              0.032                 0.413
c. Operating materials
and supplics                  0.05 million Yuan per km.
d. Administration                5.0% of wage and benefits.
e. Others                        0.025 million Yuan per km.
f. Depreciation                     30 years straight-line method.
4. Borrowing:        IBRD           5.0% on 20 ycar maturaties, LIBOR USS based singic currency
including 5 years grace period.
- 57 -



APPENDIX C
XINJIANG: KUITUN- SAILIMUHU HIGHWAY
FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from -15.0% to 20.0% (%)
Entire Range is from -15.6% to 15.9% (%)
After 891 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.2%
Statistics:                       Value        Percentiles:
Trials                        891
Mean                         0.6%                           Percentile      (%)
Median                       1.2%                                0%       -15.6%
Mode                            _                                10%       -7.1%
Standard Deviation           5.7%         Low Sccnario          20%        4.3%
Variance                     0.3%                               30%        -2.2%
Skewness                     -0.28        Most Likely           40%        -0.2%
Kurtosis                      2.80                        1     50%         1.2%
Coeff. of Variability         9.73        High Scenario         60%        2.5%
Range Minimum              -15.6%                               70%        3.7%
Range Maximum               15.9%                               80%        5.3%
Range Width                 31.5%                               90%        7.4%
Mean Std. Error             0.19%                              100%        15.9%
r                     Forecast FIRR (Totad Project, 200)n
891 Trtals                       Frequency Chart                       2 Outliers
(s)~~~~~~~~~~~s
en                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
Trfi  Grwt                                  TolIt IIIIIIIIIIIIIIll. Chre
Ma        1                                                     0
.150%         .63%          2   5%      113%         200%
AsMunu% t0ons
Traffic Growth                                  Toll Charges
Normnal distribution with parameters:           NorTnal distribution with parameters:
Mean                 100.0%                     Mean                100.0%
Standard Dcv.         20.0%                     Standard Dcv.        10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity   Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.6%              Mean value in simulation was 100.1%
Total Working Cost                              Capital Investment
Triangular distribution with parameters:        Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum               90.0%                     Minimum             100.0%
Likeliest            100.0%                     Likeliest           100.0%
Maximum               110.0%                    Maximum             150.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 11I0.0%         Selected range is from 1 00.0% to 150.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.0%            Mean value in simulation was II16.0%
- 58 -



APPENDIX D
Page l of2
Xinjiang: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
1996     1997    1998     1999     2000     Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                       1,181.50  1,218.50 1,255.10 1,293.00  1,357.65  6,305.75
2 Vehicle purchase fee                        144.25    146.96  121.15  119.79   127.79   659.94
3 Surcharge on passenger tickets               76.97     79.38  91.31   104.87   110.10   462.63
4 MOC subsidy                                 223.89    623.30  605.75  400.85  1,100.00  2,953.79
5 Bank loan                                    158.23  352.63   503.78  493.32   630.00  2,137.96
6 Tolls                                            -        -    13.00   61.00   105.00    179.00
7 Other funds                                  75.60     76.00   80.00   85.00   210.00'  526.60
Total                                      1,860.44  2.496.77 2.670.09 2,557.83  3.640.54 13,225.67
Expenditure:
I New construction                           1,417.98  1,981.11 2,094.83 1,828.56  2,789.24 10,111.72
2 Traffic safety supervision                    14.50    16.00   18.00   18.00    18.00     84.50
3 Major and medium maintenance                 49.00    40.00    26.33  123.20   180.00   418.53
4 Routine maintenance                         171.67    198.50  212.62  218.59   220.60  1,021.98
5 Administration and study                     115.70   128.60  143.39  142.60   120.50   650.79
6 Repayment of interest and principle          21.59    45.06    69.27   94.82   160.60    391.34
7 Other expenditures                           70.00     87.50  105.65  132.06   151.60   546.81
Total                                      1.860.44  Z496.77 2.670.09 2.557.83  3.640.54 13.225.67
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                        31,609   32,053  32,762   33,484   35,000  164,908
Average annual increase                            --     1.4%    2.2%    2.2%     4.5%      2.1%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) /_lI  220.67  238.50  238.95  341.79  400.60  1,440.51
Average unit maintenance expenditure ('000 YAkn)- (b)/(a)  6.98  7.44  7.29    10.21    11.45     8.74
Average annual increase                            --     6.6%   -2.0%   40.0%     12.1%    10.4%
I_1: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Actual :1996-2000.
- 59 -



APPENDIX D
Page 2 of 2
Xinjiang: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Tenth Five Year Plan- Forecast
(Yuan million)
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                     1,425.53 1,496.81 1,571.65 1,650.23 1,732.74  7,876.96
2 Vehicle purchase fee                       134.17  140.88  147.92  155.32  163.08   741.37
3 Surcharge on passenger tickets             115.62  121.40  127.47  133.84  140.53   638.86
4 MOC subsidy                               1,100.00 1,200.00 1,200.00 1,300.00 1,300.00  6,100.00
5 Bank loan                                  932.64  500.00  800.00  800.00  790.00  3,822.64
6 Tolls                                      210.00  231.00  254.00  279.00  307.00  1,281.00
7 Other funds                                230.00  250.00  270.00  290.00  310.00  1,350.00
Total                                     4147.96 3.,940.09 4.371.04 4.608.39 4,743.35 21,810.83
ExPenditure:
I New construction                         3,168.60 2,738.82 3,076.48 3,106.73 3,064.74 15,155.37
2 Traffic safety supervision                  18.00   18.00   18.00   18.00   18.00    90.00
3 Major and medium maintenance               200.20  213.22  227.54  243.20  260.63  1,144.79
4 Routine maintenance                        230.00  260.00  290.00  320.00  350.00  1,450.00
5 Administration and study                   126.50  132.85  139.49  146.47  153.79   699.10
6 Repayment of interest and principle        230.32  385.43  408.58  541.94  640.94  2,207.21
7 Other expenditures                         174.34  191.77  210.95  232.05  255.25  1,064.36
Total                                     4.147.96 3.940.09 4.371.04 4.608.39 4.743.35 21,810.83
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                       35,900  36,900  37,900  38,900  40,000  189,600
Average annual increase                        2.6%    2.8%    2.7%    2.6%    2.8%     2.2%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) /LI  430.20  473.22  517.54  563.20  610.63  2,594.79
Average unit maintenance expenditure COOO Y/km)- (b)/(a)  11.98  12.82  13.66  14.48  15.27  13.69
Average annual increase                        4.7%    7.0%    6.5%    6.0%    5.4%     5.0%
i_l: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Estimate: 2001; forecast: 2002-2005.
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Procurement
This Annex is based on a review conducted during project preparation of the agencies capacity in
procurement and financial management. The Project Procurement Capacity Assessment (PPCA) is in the Project
Files, and its findings are summarized below. The Financial Management Review is presented in Annex 13. Both
assessments have (i) concluded that the capacity is generally adequate in view of the extensive experience of the
agencies gained under previous projects, and (ii) recommended some improvements (mostly additional training of
concerned staff, and preparation of manuals to guide local units involved in day-to-day implementation of project
tasks). These improvements have been accepted and acted upon by XCD.
Summary of PPCA's findings
The assessment confirmed that the provincial agencies have managed, in a generally satisfactory manner,
the previous two highway projects (one completed last year and the other nearing completion); regarding the new
project, XCD provided assurances that the core staff involved in previous projects will be maintained. On the other
side, some shortcomings have been identified, such as (i) lack of consolidated national procurement law (this is a
country-wide issue being addressed as part of the ongoing dialogue between Central Govemment and the Bank); and
(ii) deviations of internal NCB procedures from Bank NCB procedures (mostly: use of bracketing, limitation of
number of applicants in some instances, short period allowed for bid preparation). These will be waived in favor of
World Bank procedures in a Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement.
The Supplemental Letter will specify the following NCB procedures: (a) all invitations to prequalify or to
bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation in China; (b) such advertisement shall be made in
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their
response; and the advertisement and the bidding document shall specify the required form and amount of bid
security; (c) qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall
be specified in detail in the bidding documents; (d) bid security to be provided in appropriate form and amount; (e)
the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of bids; (f) all bids shall be opened in
public; (g) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard bracket established
by XCD; and (h) each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, and the winning bidder
shall not be required, as condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
An action plan has been devised to strengthen XCD units mostly through preparation of a "Project
Procurement Manual" and additional procurement training. Furthermore, a Procurement Plan using computerized
project management software has been prepared, and attached to XCD's Project Implementation Plan. Based on the
above considerations, the assessment concludes (i) that the proposed project can safely apply the same thresholds (in
terms of procurement methods or prior review) as the ones used under the previous projects; and (ii) that the general
risk can be rated as average.
Procurement methods (Table A)
I .    Procurement would be carried out as shown in Table A, which provides the aggregate cost associated with
each procurement method. Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under EBRD Loans and IDA Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999) as well as the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002. The
documentation for procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractors, ICB and national competitive
bidding (NCB) for civil works, and ICB for goods and consultant services was standardized for Chinese conditions
by the Chinese government and the Bank on the basis of model bidding documents (MBD) which would be used for
all relevant procurement processes under the project. The MBDs issued in 1997 are being revised to reflect the
successive changes that have been made to corresponding Bank SBDs. Until the revised MBDs are issued, any
- 61 -



discrepancy between the MBDs and the SBDs will be addressed through a change list that will be prepared by XCD
and included as part of the bidding documents. Where no agreed model documents exist, Bank standard documents
would be used. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in the UN Development
Business issue No.558 of May 16, 2001 .
2.     Works (US$294.3 M). Civil works for the Kui-Sai Highway (KSH) have been divided into 15 contracts
with anaverage size of about US$15.3 million. This slicing is a compromise between diverse factors such as the
manageability of contracts, the length of the overall construction period, the capacity of the domestic construction
industry, and the attractiveness to foreign contractors. Electro-mechanical works (EMW) would be handled as one
contract of about US$8 million equivalent. The 15 civil works contracts and the EMW contract for KSH would be
procured under ICB procedures. There would be one tender call for the civil works contracts which would be bid
on a slice-and-package basis; qualified firms would be allowed to bid for more than one contract as so to attract
international contractors and large Chinese contractors. The EMW contract would be procured under a two-stage
bidding procedure which is appropriate for the supply and installation of E&M systems.
3.     Contractors bidding for civil works under ICB would be prequalified. For all civil works contracts
estimated to cost over $10 million as well as the EMW contract, in addition to advertisement in at least one
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country, invitations for prequalification will be advertised as
Specific Procurement Notices in the UN Development Business and/or well-known technical magazines, newspapers,
and trade publications of wide intemational circulation. Each contract for works estimated to cost US$50 million or
more will include provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works
referred to in para.2.42 of the above-mentioned Guidelines.
4.     Other works, including facilities along the main highway (estimated at US$13.7 million), and rehabilitation
works under the LRRP (with a cost of about US$45 million), would be awarded following NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. There would be no prequalification under NCB. These works would involve contracts
estimated to cost less than US$10 million each. Since these contracts will be relatively small, scattered throughout
the region and implemented over four years, ICB would neither be justified nor practical, but foreign firms would not
be precluded from bidding.
5.     Equipment (US$14.5 million). Contracts for goods and equipment covering highway operation and
maintenance, over US$250,000 equivalent up to a total amount of US$ I million, will be awarded under ICB.
Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB will be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids
of 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Other items or groups of
items covering maintenance and laboratory equipment estimated to cost under US$250,000 per contract package,
with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.77 million, will be procured following NCB procedures. Other items
or groups of items for survey, laboratory or office technology purposes estimated to cost under US$ 1 00,000 per
contract package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.6 million, would be procured following
international shopping practices consistent with the Bank Guidelines' Articles 3.5-3.6.
6.     Consultants services (US$9.6 million, Table Al). All consultants required for construction supervision,
staff training, technical assistance and studies, would be selected and employed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The Standard Request for Proposals, dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998 and July
1999, will be used. Consultants for construction supervision will be-selected using the Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) method. All other contracts for training and TA services ( road management, toll highway
management, and transport services), are expected to cost less than US$ 100,000 each, with an aggregate amount of
US$0.87 million. They will use the Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) method. For the road
management consultancies, local expertise available from the various central and provincial research institutes,
which is critical to project implementation, would be used under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. All
consultants services above US$200,000 must be advertised in the UN Development Business. The arrangements by
selection method and aggregate value for each category are shown in Table Al below.
- 62 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$ million, and including contingencies)
':Categ;P;ihmdr*--; e gI                                                    - .  ..* i od
__.t {^.                                          ;   ...... - __^J1 EBs's?NEB .............._N   Other-  .NB.F.  TotalCdst-tj
Works
Main highway civil works       227.00                                             227.00
(108.76)                                            108.76)
Service facilities                            13.75                                13.75
(6.59)                               (6.59)
E&M works                       8.18                                               8.18
(6.55)                                             (6.55)
Local roads improvement                       44.88                                44.88
(16.11)                              (16.11)
Black spot treatment                                                   0.45        0.45
Sub-total Works    235.18        58.63                    0.45       294.26
(115.30)       (22.70)                             (138.00)
Goods
Equipment                       11.00         0.77         0.60        2.08        14.45
(7.30)        (0.54)       (0.50)                  (8.34)
Services
TA and Training                                            2.16        7.43        9.60
(2.16)                  (2.16)
Miscellaneous
Land acquisition & resettlement                                       14.39        14.39
Front-end fee                                              1.50                    1.50
(1.50)                  (1.50)
Total                             246.18         59.40        4.26       24.35       334.20
(122.60)       (23.24)     (4.16)                  (150.00)
(a) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(b) Other includes international shopping, consulting services and training, and the front-end fee..
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million, and including contingencies)
~~~~~~~ZSeWr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iioces>;,{urLernent1m_|r . tho  ;  -  .-
,~S'ie          U____M_
z;      Q<      '5       _QX1fiBS                 GOw             . U.-  N.B F:     Tbtal&% 6-st3
Supervision                      1.29                                  7.13        8.42
(1.29)                                             (1.29)
Training                                      0.75                     0.25         1.00
(0.75)                               (0.75)
Other TA                                       0.12                    0.05        0.17
(0.12)                               (0.12)
Total                              1.29          0.87                     7.43        9.60
(1.29)        (0.87)                               (2.16)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-based Selection
CQ = Selection based on Consultants Qualifications
-63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of US$ 2
million or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than US$250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting
services with an estimated contract cost of more than US$ 100,000 for firms. Regarding consultant contracts, the
terms of reference, regardless of the value of the contract, will be subject to prior review. Prior review will thus
apply to an estimated 90%, 75% and 70% of the total contract values of works, goods and.services financed by the
Bank, respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-review procedures would be followed.
The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review is expected to be 33%.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Tbreshold               Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category            (US$ millionis)             Method                (US$ millions)
l. Works                            More than 10.00               ICB               16 contracts/$239m
More than 2.00               NCB                10 contracts/$45m
Less than 2.00               NCB                     None
2. Goods                             More than 0.25               ICB                 4 contracts/$11nm
Less than 0.25            NCB or IS                  None
3. Services                          More than 0.10               QCBS                I contract/$1.2m
I__     Less than 0.10                CQ                     None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review  US$ 295.5 m    l
Overall procurement risk assessment. Consistent with the Agency Capacity Assessment as well as the frequency
of procurement supervision missions proposed (two yearly), the overall risk can be rated as average.
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
1.     The allocation of loan proceeds according to expenditure category is outlined in Table C.
2.     Advance Contracting. XCD intends to start works as soon as possible, because of the limited duration of
the construction season under the Xinjiang climate(early April to end October). Advance contracting is thus
warranted to avoid delaying the start of main construction activities to early 2003. Advance contracting is underway,
in accordance with all relevant Bank guidelines, for (i) civil works on KSH, (ii) civil works on first tranche of LRRP,
and (iii) construction supervision activities.
3.     Retroactive Financing. As an exception to OP 12. 10, retroactive financing has been authorized for an
amount up to $25 million, or 16.6% of the loan amount, for payments made after June 1, 2002, in relation to the
above advance contracted expenditures.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Works:                                                                  (in %, F=foreign, L=local)
Kui-Sai Highway construction                     107.86                          48
Local Roads rehabilitation                       15.00                           36
Traffic engineering                              6.10                            80
Goods:
Equipment                                        8.34                        10OF or 75L
Services:
Works supervision                                 1.29                           91
Training and studies                             0.88                   100(training), 91 (studies)
Unallocated:                                       9.03
Total Project Costs                               148.50
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee    .     1.50
Total                                             150.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works
in contracts of less than US$2.0 million, (b) goods in contracts of less than US$250,000, (c) services provided by
consulting firms in contracts of less than US$ 100,000, and (d) services provided by individual consultants in
contracts of less than US$50,000 and (e) training.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be opened with an authorized allocation of US$8 million
equivalent, the estimated average expenditure amount for a four-month period.
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Project Schedule                                 Plan.ned                    Actual 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     15
First Bank mission (identification)            07/15/2000                  07/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    10/15/2001                  06/07/2002
Negotiations                                   01/15/2002                  07/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/19/2002
Prepared by:
Xinjiang Communications Department, under the leadership of Mr. Aman Haji, Director
Preparation assistance:
- Japanese PHRD Trust Fund for (i) social assessments, (ii) environmental assessments, (iii) traffic
safety audit, and (iv) technical audit of engineering designs.
- Finnish Consultant Trust Fund for road maintenance management
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Jacques Tollie                    Task Team Leader/Engineering/Institutional
Han-Kang Yen                      Economic/financial analysis
Daniel Gibson                     Social development
Zhefu Liu                         Resettlement
Naoya Tsukamoto                   Environment
Gregory Guldin, Yasin Ashuri      Anthropology/social development
Ole Sylte, Li Ningyuan            Road management systems
Maria Luisa G. Kelly              Program assistant
Setty Pendakur                    Institutional development
Yang Dawei (RMC)                  Procurement assessment
Chau-Ching Shen, Yu Zhuo          Financial management
Hoi-chan Nguyen (PCD stage), Nina  Legal
Eejima (PAD stage), Margaret Png
(Negotiations)
Simon Bradbury, Elaine Sun, Yi-Ling  Disbursement
Liu
-66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan - XCD, May 2002
Performance Monitoring Indicators, May 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Procurement Capacity Assessment, May 2002
Financial Management Capacity Assessment, December 2001
Review of Engineering Designs:
- Final Report, November 2001
- Completion Report, January 2002
C. Other
Feasibility Studies
- Kui-sai Feasibility Study Report, May 2000
- LRRP F.S. Reports for five links, June 2001
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Resettlement Action Plans for Kui-sai, November 2001
Resettlement Policy Framework for LRRP, February 2002
Environment (EIA, EAP, Summary)
EIA, EAP, Summary for Kui-sai, January 2002
Initial Environmental Examination and EAP for LRRP, January 2002
Institutional Strengthening and Training Report, September 2001
Equipment Procurement Report, July 2001
Institutional Development Action Plans
IDRP outline, January 2002
Proposal for study on Toll Highway Management, October 2001
Proposal for Road Management Improvement, December 2001
Action Plan for Toll Highway Management, December 2001
Action Plan for Transport Services, December 2001
Traffic Safety
Study on Economic Losses due to Road Traffic Accidents, August 2001
Traffic Safety Action Plans, November 2001
Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction
RFP, July 2001
-67 -



Local Roads Improvement in Poor Counties
Program Details, September 2000
Summary Tables, January 2002
Prequalification Document for Civil Works, May 2001
Background Data on Xinjiang
- Socio-economic data, November 2000
- Road Sector, July 2001
*Including electronic files
-68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Miltions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P084729        2002 SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO             93.90       0.00                 0.00       0.00     93.90       0.16      0.00
P058846        2002 NatIonal Railway Proiset                         160.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    136.09      30.26      0.00
P068049        2002 Hubei Hydropower Development in Poor Are        105.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    105.00       0.00      0.00
P070459        2002 Inner Mongolia Highway Project                  1100.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     100.00       0.00      0.00
P071147        2002 Tuberculosis Control Projec                     104.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     103.33      -0.67      0.00
P058845        2001 JIangxId 1 Hwy                                  200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     188.22       3.89      0.00
P056516        2001 WATER CONSERVATION                               74.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      62.52       5.07      0.00
P056598        2001 Shljlazhiuang Urban Transport                   100.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      99.00      32.57      0.00
P056199        2001 Third Inland Waterways                           100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     96.00      .0.63      0.00
P047345        2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUrTION CONTROL                105.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00    102.05      -3.45      0.00
P051859        2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                              100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     93.00       3.21      0.00
P045915        2001 Urunmqi Urban Transporl                          100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     71.22      16.67      0.00
P058424        2000 TONGBAJ PUMPED STORA                            320.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    304.94      47.34      0.00
P049436        2000 CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                  200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     189.53      22.43      0.00
P045910        2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    140.03      24.11      0.00
P045284        2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                             93.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00      51.23      24.78      0.00
P042109        2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT 11                       349.00       0.00                25.00       0.00    352.24     102.20      0.00
P064730        2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project              210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    184.56      88.89      0.00
P05884         2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                              150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    123.54      21.21      0.00
P058843        2000 Guangxi Highway                                 200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    167.60      41.76      0.00
P046829        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     12.87      87.37      0.00
P046564        1999 Gansu & Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction         60.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00     99.09      38.34      1.11
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                           20.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     31.31      28.86      0.00
P003653        1999 Container Transport                              71.00       0.00                 0.00       3.13     26.33      29.18      0.00
P043933        1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIARONMENT                   150.00       2.00                 0.00       0.00     98.09      34.76      5.60
P042299        1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                               10.00      35.00                 0.00       0.00     40.41      -3.58      0.00
P041890        1999 Uaoning Urban Transport                          150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     74.15      49.95      0.00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                     10.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     43.55      10.31      0.00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                             50.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00     49.77       7.40      0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                             80.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00     62.22      28.77      0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU 11                                 100.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00     87.11      S4.83       0.00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATERSUPPLY IV                          16.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00     32.16      13.60      -2.93
P058308        1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                             0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00      2.53       2.61      0.00
P060270        1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                           0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00      4.39       6.16       1.22
P038121        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                      0.00       0.00                35.00       0.00     26.67      14.34       0.00
P041268        1999 Nat Hwy4/Hubel-Hunan                             350.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    181.48      55.73       000O
P051856        1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                  27.40       5.60                 0.00       0.00     21.82      21.23       0.00
P050036        1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                            200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     98.60      27.55       0.00
P051705        1999 Fujan 11 Highway                                 200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    133.66      90.83       0.00
P040185        1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                           95.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.29      24.38       0.00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                           300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     49.46      12.43       0.00
P036949        1998 Hat Hwy3-Hubel                                  250.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     47.29      -8.54       0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                               0.00      0.00                22.00       0.00      5.06      21.73       0.00
P046952        1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00     84.35     -30.29      51.71
P045788        1998 Tni-Provincial Hwy                              230.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     79.75      42.95       0.00
P051736        1998 E. CHINAJJIANGSU PWR                             250.00      0.00                 0.00      86.00     76.04     162.04       2-11
P046563        1998 TARIM aASIN 11                                    50.00     60.00                 0.00       2.67     72.39      54.99       0.00
P003566        1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                           0.00      85.00                 0.00       0.00    .42.12      22.78       0.00
P003591        1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00      0.00                 0.00      60.91      8.45      81.38       1.48
P003619        1998 2nd Inland Waterways                             123.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      80.34     64.34       0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00      0.00                 0.00     100.00     176.67    234.67      20.61
P003614        1998 Guangzhou City Transport                         200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     130.81    126.78       0.00
P003539        1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.               '100.00     0.00                 0.00       2.31     49.48      32.63       0.00
- 69 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
-Project ID    FY   Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.    Undisb.     Odg    Frmn ReV~d
P036414       1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    72.00     20.00                0.00      0.00     79.69     00.19       1.10
P003606       1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00      0.00               22.00      0.00     48.12      13.44      0.00
P003637       1997 CN-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                     0.00      70.00)               0.00      0.00     11.76      10.93     10.03
P003635       1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                         10.00     20.00                0.00      0.00      0.29       1.42      0.00
P003843       1997 Xinjiang Hwy II                                300.00      0.00                0.00     60.00     26.77      88.77     15.10
P003650       1997 TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                           400.00      0.00                0.00    102.50     96.09     172.41     -6.81
P038988       1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                               120.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     23.52      21.27      0.00
P036952       1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                  0.00     85.00                0.00      0.00      2.28       5.04      0.00
P036405       1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                           400.00      0.00                0.00     75.00     52.22     124.72     -12.78
P003590       1997 QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION               36.00    150.00                0.00      0.00     70.38      73.09      0.00
P035693       1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                              0.00      0.00-              32.80      0.00      9.33      32.81      0.00
P044485       1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                            400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00    190.95     102.10     15.00
P034081       1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                           430.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     92.63     123.49     118.85
P003654       1997 Nat Hwy2lHdunan-Guangdong                      400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00    109.73     109.73      0.00
P003589       1996 CN.DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                    0.00    100.00                0.00      0.00      15.31     25A40      0.00
P003594       1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                             60.00     90.00                0.00      0.00     93.00      63.52       0.00
P040513       1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                             210.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     61.97      81.97      -3.02
P003599       1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  125.00     25.00                0.00      0.00)    88.16      81.53      49.05
P003602       1996 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00     25.00                0.00      28.32     54.30     84.75      39.60
P003646       1996 CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                        170.00      0.00                0.00     164.82      2.72    167.54       2.72
P003648       1996 CN-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE 11                        250.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      91.13     91.13       3.38
P003649       1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                             0.00    100.00                0.00      0.00       6.57     15.89       0.00
PD03838       1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                            60.00     20.00                0.00      9.40      17.77     28.22       000)
P034618       1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                            10.00     20.00                0.00      0.00       6.45      8.68       0.00
P036947       1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                           270.00      0.00                0.00      95.00     12.17    107.17      0.012
PD03598       1995 CN-UAONING ENVIRONMENT                         110.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      15.07     15.07       7.66
P003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                            100.00    110.00                0.00      0.00       2.67      5.20       5.20
P003647       1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                 0.00     10.00                0.00      0.00       4.24      4.88       0.00
P036041       1995 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                             25.00     25.00                0.00      0.00       0.64      3.15       3.15
P003585       1995 SHENYANG IND. REFORM                           175.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      41.52     41.52       0.00
PD03639       1995 SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT             47.50    200.00                0.00      0.00      14.87     39.43      39.43
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS VIl                                   400.00      0.00                0.00     109.00     75.18    181.18      20.21
P003842       1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                            400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      62.15     67.77       0.00
P003603       1995 CN-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF            275.00     75.00                0.00      20.00    102.21    120.69      58.64
P003600       1995 CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                      200.00      0.00                0.00       3.02     20.97     23.96       0.00
P003540       1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00    150.00                0.00      0.00       2.22     -0.43       0.00
P003586       1994 CN-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                160.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      29.65     29.65       8.91
P003404       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00      0.00               10.00      0.00       0.02      0.78       0.00
P003644       1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00    110.00                0.00      0.00       2.04      0.15      -334
P003841       1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                           350.00      0.00                0.00      11.50      3.32     14.82       1.43
P003626       1994 Fujian Prov Highway                            140.00      0.00                0.00      18.11     12.29     30.40      30.38
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV &CONSERVATION                  255.00      0.00               10.00      0.00      52.18     52.16       0.00
P003595       1994 RED SOILS 11 AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            0.00    150.00                0.00       0.00      5.85      1.19      -0.51
P003592       1993 REF. INsrL& PREINV                               0.00     50.00                0.00      0.00       2.64      3.15       1.75
P003473       1993 CN.ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT              0.00    1`10.00               0.00      0.00       2.20      2.36      -2.53
P003632       1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00     50.00                0.00      0.00       4.85      5.46       5.14
P003627       1953 GRAIN DISTRIBUJTION P                          325.00    165.00                0.00      0.00      33.19     34.02      20.69
P003623       1993 FINANCIAL SECTOR TA                              0.00     60.00                0.00      0.00       2.03     -3.52      -3.52
Total:   13724.80    2617.60             156.60     971.68    6576.84    4236.38    504.18
- 70 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1997               Orient Finance               9.52   0.00    0.00    11.90   9.52    0.00    0.00   11.90
1997/00            PTP Holdings                 0.00   0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997               PTP Hubei                   11.72   0.00    0.00   23.29   11.72    0.00    0.00   23.29
1996               Pacific Ports                0.00   2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00
2001               Peak Pacific                 0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                0.90    0.00   0.00    0.90    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.90
2000               SSIF                         0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.45     0.00   0.00
1998               Shanghai Krupp              30.00    0.00   0.00   68.80   19.74    0.00    0.00   45.26
1999               Shanxi                      17.87    0.00   0.00    0.00   15.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                3.76    0.99   0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
2001               Sino-Forest                 25.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                   0.00   2.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.48    0.00    0.00
1998               WIT                          5.00   0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Wanjie Hospital             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri             1.92    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               YantaiCement                11.13    1.95   0.00    0.00   11.13    1.95    0.00    0.00
1998               Zhen Jing                    0.00    2.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
2002               Advantage                    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999/00/02         Bank of Shanghai             0.00   24.67   .0.00   0.00    0.00   24.67    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Honnel               2.50    0.50   0.00     1.65   2.50    0.50    0.00    1.65
1998/00            CIG Holdings PLC             0.00    3.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               CPEF                         0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                 18.53    0.00   0.00   28.64    18.53   0.00    0.00   28.64
1998               Chengdu Huarong              7.40    3.20   0.00    8.60    3.70    3.20    0.00    4.30
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                0.00    0.36   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36     0.00   0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles               0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt             0.00    0.01   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Ven             0.00   0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21     0.00   0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                 0.00    2.40   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40     0.00   0.00
1999               Dujiangyan                  25.59    0.00   0.00    30.00  16.11    0.00     0.00   18.89
1995               DupontSuzhou                12.46    4.15    0.00   10.40   12.46   4.15     0.00   10.40
1994               Dynamic Fund                 0.00    9.75   0.00     0.00   0.00    8.09     0.00   0.00
1999               Hansom                       0.00   16.10    0.00   0.00    0.00    16.10    0.00   0.00
2002               Huarong AMC                 31.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               IEC                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                     32.50    0.00    0.00  69.23   32.50    0.00     0.00  69.23
1998               Leshan Scana                 6.10    1.35    0.00   0.00    4.50     1.35    0.00   0.00
2001               Maanshan Carbon              9.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
2002               NCCB                         0.00   26.58    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.46    0.00    0.00
1996              NanjingKumho                  6.82    3.81    0.00   19.38    6.82   3.81     0.00   19.38
2001               New China Life               0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995              Newbridge Inv.                0.00    1.95    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.95     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      304.22  166.98   25.00  277.79   206.13  127.02    0.00  233.84
- 71 -



Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002               Darong                          10.00     0.00      1.50     8.00
2002               Narada Battery                   6.60     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               Zhong Chen                      25.00     0.00      0.00     32.00
2002               ASIMCO                           0.00    13.50      1.50     0.00
2002               Sino Mining                      5.00     0.00      0.00      5.00
2002               Shuang Deng                     12.50     0.00      2.80     0.00
2002               KHIT                             0.00     0.00      3.00      0.00
2002               SML                              0.00     0.00      6.00      0.00
1996               Jingyang                        4.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998               PTP Hubei BLINC                 0.00      0.00      0.00      1.50
2000               CIG Zhapu                        6.00     5.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Meijing                          9.00     0.00      0.00      7.30
2000               CIMIC Tile                      15.00     5.00      0.00     15.00
2001               Daning Coal                      0.00     0.00      2.00     15.00
2001               AACI                             0.00     0.00      2.00      0.00
2001               Minsheng                         0.00    23.50      0.00      0.00
2002               HuarongAMC                      15.00     0.00      3.00      0.00
2002               IEC                              0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      108.10     52.00    21.80     83.80
-72-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-    I 
China    Pacific   Income     !Developmentdiamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    1,262.5    1,853     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    840     1,060     1,140                 L
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   1,061.2    1.964     2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (I%)                                       1.0       1.1       1.0
Laborforca (%)                                        1.2       1.4       1.3     GNI           A.    \ % ,       Gross
per            -\-~ 4 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            ! capita         \  I        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   5         ..       ..    l
Urban population (% of total population)               36        35       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               30        35        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              9        13       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (I% of population)  75        75        80
Illiteracy (I% ofpopulation age 15+)                   16        14        15    I
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  123      119       114              China
Male                                                123       121       116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              123       121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                         216.2    363.0     997.5    1,076.9    E
Gross domestic investmenU/GDP               35.2     34.7      37.2      37.3    !
Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.6     17.5      22.0      25.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  34.9     37.9      40.1      39.9    I
Gross national savings/GDP                  34.9     38.3      38.7      39.2    i
Current account balance/GDP                  -0.4     3.8       1.6       1.9     Domestic                   Investmen
Interest paymentslGDP                        0.2      0.7       0.6       0.7     savings       v   ,,,,>     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    15.2      15.5      13.9     svn
Total debt servicelexports                   8.0      9.9       9.0       7.4
Present value of debtGDP                       ,.      ..      13.5
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      58.7        ..    !
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)                                                          I
GDP                                10.1     10.3      7.1       7.9       7.4
GDP per capita                      8.5      9.2      6.1       7.2       6.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      11.0     16.5     13.9      32.0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000    |Growth ot investment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                       i
Agriculture                                 30.1     27.0       17.6     15.9     20
Industry                                    48.5     41.6      49.4      50.9     1a     ;_
Manutacturing                              40.5     32.9      33.6      34.5
Services                                    21.4     31.3       32.9     33.2       t
Private consumption                         50.5     49.9      47.4      47.0            95   99    97    90   99    55
General government consumption               14.6    12.1       12.5     13.1               -'GDt      O     GDP
Imports of goods and services                7.9     14.3       19.1     23.2
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000    I Growth o0 exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  5.9      4.1        2.8      2.4     40
Industry                                    11.1     13.7       8.1       9.6     30X
Manufacturing                              11.1     13.4       8.3       9.7    20
Services                                    13.5      9.0        7.5      7.8      o 
Private consumption                          9.4      8.8        2.6      6.0              -
General govemment consumption                9.8      9.4        8.4     12.0    -10     ss    96   97    98   99    00
Gross domestic investment                   10.8     11.6        3.2      7.9                  EupI -0 mports
Imports of goods and services                9.1     16.1       22.3     24.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 73 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999     2000      inflation (   '
DottBstc prtces;
(% rSage),30 
Consumerprices                              6.0      3.1      -1.4      0.4     20
Implicit GDP deflator                       5.6      5.5      -2.2      0.9
Govemnment finance                                                             .
(X of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                            25.7     19.7      15.0     15.3   -10a    9     9
Current budget balance                       ,.      3.0       1.3      0.6           -GDPdefator        C   CPI
Ovemil surplus,deflcit                     -1.5     -0.8      -4.0     -3.6
TRADE
1980    1990      1999     2000       --
(USS millions)                                                                  Export and Impot levels (UsS mill.)
Totel exports (fob)                      18,270   62,091   194,931  249,210   li300,000
Food                                     2,985   6,609    10,458   12,282
Fuel                                     4,280   5,237     4,659    7,851
Manufactures                             9,005  46,205   174,990  223,752                         -
Total imports (cit)                      20,017   53,345   165,699  225,097    1           ___
Food                                     2,927   3.335     3,619    4,758     100000
Fuel and energy                           203    1,272     8,912   26,037    '                 *   m    m   m_
Capittal goods                           5,119   16,845   69.469   91,934    ;    
Export price Index (1995=100)                25      78        69       67             94  95   98  97   98   98  00
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                   22      80        71       75                *ExPorts      Ximports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                      116      97        98       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UISS millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000                   bilincetoGDP(%)
Exports of goods and services            20,167   67,971   218,496  279,561   15
Imports of goods and services            20,859   55,537   189,799  250,688    4
Resource balance                           4692   12,433    28,697   28,873
Net Income                                 -100    1,055   -17,973  -14,666    i I
Net currenttransfers                         ..     274      4,943    6,311   12
Current account bealnce                    -792   13.762    15,668   20,519            m        m        lii
Financing items (net)                        ..   -7,673    -7,163   -9,971    li
Changes in net reserves                      ..    6,089    -8,505  -10,548        g    95   98   97   95    99   00
Memno:
Reserves induding god (USS mi'lions)         ..   16,963   161.404  171,753
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            2.1      5.1       8.2      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ milions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..   55,301   154,223  149,800
IBRO                                        ..   2,865    10,400   11,118
IDA                                         ..   3,016     8,907    8,771             G: 17,174  A: 11,11
Total debt service                        1,652    7,057    20,655   21.728    ,                            0:2,56
IBRO                                        ..    416      1,142    1,291                                 D _   5
IDA                                         *.     19       117       131
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             E 28,510
Official grants                             7     143       201       147
Ofricial creditors                         ..    1,727     1,706    1,928
Private creditors                          ..       ..    -1,854    1,985
Foreign direct investment                  57    3,487    41,015   42,096
Porttolequity                               0       0      1,808    7,814          F: 81.671
World Bank program
Commitments                                .,     953      2,097    1,536     A . IBRO                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              ..    1,098     1,756    1,907     B - IDA  D - Other multilateril  F - Private
Prncdpl repa;yments                        ..     216       558      644      C - IMF                   G - Short-taerm
Netfiows                                    ..    882      1,198    1,263
Interest payments                          ..     219       701       778
Net transfers                              ..     663       497       485
Development Economics                                                                                            916/01
- 74 -



Annex 11: Major Related Projects financed by Development Agencies
CHINA: Third Xinjlang Highway Project
Sector Issue                                     Project                                     Latest Superviston (PSR) Ratpns
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Progress (IP)- -Development
._______________ ___________________________________                                             Objective (DO)
Remove Capacity              Beijing-r-njin-Tanggu Expressway (completed) 1-6                                S4-
Bottlenecks (1)              Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6                                  S-S
-lastuldonal                 Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                                   S-S
Strengthening/               Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6                                  S-S
Training (2)                 Shandong Provincial Highway (conpleted) 1, 2, 4, 6                              S-S
Rural Roads and             - Jiangsu Provncial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6                                 S-S
Poverty                     Zhejiang Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                                   S-S
Alleviadon (3)               Giiangdong Provincial Highway (completed) 1-4,6                                 S4-
Highway Safety (4)           Henan Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                                                S-S
Operation and                Fujian Highway (completed) 1, 2, 3, 6                                           S-S
Maintenance of High-         National Highway: HebeilHenan (completed) 1, 2, 5, 6                            S-S
Grade Highways (5)           Xinjiang Highway (completed) 1. 2,4, 6                                          S4-
Cost Recovery (6)            Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (completed) 1, 2, 4, 6                                S-S
Second Shanaxi Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6                              S-S
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-5, 6                                S4-
Second Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6                                       S-S
__  Second Natl Hwy: GuangdongtHunan (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6                         S-S
Tbird Nat'l Hwy (onping): Hubei 1, 2,4,5, 6                                     S-S
Tri-Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6                                  S-S
Anlai Provincial Highway (ongoing): 1, 2,5, 6                                    S4-
Fourth Natl Highway: Hubei/Hunan (ongoing) 1, 2,4,5, 6                           S-S
Second Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4., 6                                      S-S
Third Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6                             S-S
G uangxi Provincial Highway (ongoing): 1, 2, 5, 6                                S4-
Second Jiangxi Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6                                     S4-
Inner Mongolia Highway (planned) 1, 2 5, 6
.____________________  Hubde Highway (planned) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
Second Anhui Highway (planned) 1, 2, 5, 6
gl_1R_ A4  D::l:nment Bana
Hebei and Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Chongqing EVessway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Expressway (ongoing)
_Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Shenyang-Jinzhou Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Roads Development (ongoing)
Chengdu-Nanchong Expressway (ongoing)                                        ._.
__   Changchun-Harbin Expressway (ongoing)
JianHxi.Hghway Project (ongoing)
Southern Yunnan Road Develonpment (planned)
.             ~~~~Sbamxi Expressway (planned)
SCeongdCing-Guinhg  a    Reressway (planned)
Guangxi Road (planned)
Shanxi and Shaanxi Expressway (planned)
O        enol oiersFn o teas _ Loic  . . eraf n W  of =  aM
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze River
Highway Bridge Construction
Second Chongr;ing Yangtze River Bridge Consmtiucon
Qiqihar Nenjiang River Highway Bridge Construction
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 75 -



Annex 12: The Regional Dimension
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
Regional integration and trade presents both huge constraints and opportunities in the case of
Xinjiang, a remote province in China surrounded by eight countries of Central, Eastern and
Southern Asia. The project's attempt to improve the climate for regional development through
better integration of XUAR with other provinces in China as well as with Kazakhstan and other
Central Asian Republics has to be seen in this context.
(a) Urumqi is less accessible to an open-water port (2500 km to the Chinese coast eastward) than
any other major city in the world. It is linked to Shanghai through National Highway 312 (NH
312), whose length within XUAR is 1430 km. The 760 km section of this road east of Urumqi
was rehabilitated a few years ago. To the west of Urumqi, the first 248 km section to Kuitun is a
new expressway completed under XHP2. The 110 km section from Sailimu Lake to the
Kazakhstan Border at Horgas was recently improved. And the 312 km section between Kuitun
and Sailimu remains the last section of the corridor served by a Class m road. The capacity of
this section is exceeded in the first part close to Kuitun, and reaching its limits on the remaining
length.
(b) XUAR foreign trade amounted to $1.5 billion in 1998, or 11.5% of XUAR GDP. The
average increase was 12% per year since 1985 when the Region opened its economy. Local
border trade amounts to 57% of total foreign trade. The trade volume at Horgas, the main road
trade border station, amounts to 45% of local border trade. The corridor is partly served by a rail
line as well. It runs parallel to the project highway for about 60% of its length, then heads north
to Alataw and Druzhba in Kazakhstan where transshipment is required due to the differences in
gauge between China and Kazakhstan.
(c) The most important road transport corridor in Central Asia is the
Tashkent-Bishkek-Almaty-Horgas-Urumqi road, linking the major cities of Uzbekistan,
Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and XUAR. This road is the main truck route for trade between China
and Central Europe. There is significant involvement of the donor community to improve trade
and transport in the area. Most noteworthy initiatives are (i) the UN trade facilitation program for
the Economies of Central Asia (SPECA) and the Silk Road Area Development Program; (ii) in
2000 the ADB released a report on Regional Economic Cooperation in Central Asia (RECCA),
including pre-feasibility studies for the proposed investments (the Almaty-Horgas road ranked
first in the list of road investments); and (iii) the World Bank's initiatives, particularly the Road
Transport Restructuring Project in Kazakhstan on the one side, and this project on the other side.
(d) The ADB report on RECCA mentioned above provided interesting information on
cross-border issues in road transport. These include closures of border crossings, inadequacy of
some border-crossing facilities, transit restrictions and charges, inconsistent axle load limits and
enforcement, excessive control along intemational corridors, and slow implementation of various
intemational road transport agreements. As far as the project corridor (linking Xinjiang to
Kazakhstan) is concemed, cross-border issues are less of a physical nature (since the completion a
few years ago of a large modern facility for customs and immigration), and deal more with policy
issues of the concemed govemments. These are best resolved as part of the regional cooperation
initiatives in the transport sector mentioned in (c) above.
-76 -



Annex 13: Financial Management Assessment
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
L.     Executive Summary and Conclusion
1.     The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of project financial management system of the
proposed Third Xinjiang Project (the "Project") (see Annex 6 of PAD). The assessment, based on guidelines issued
by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minirnum Bank
financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the project will have in
place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format agreed with the project and as required by the
Bank.
2.     Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. Bank loan will be signed between
the Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and on-lend arrangement for the Bank loans will be signed between
MOF and Finance Bureau of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (FBXUAR), and between FBXUAR and Xinjiang
Communication Bureau (XCB). Bank loan will flow from the Bank to project special account maintained by
FBXUAR, to the project for reimbursable expenditures incurred and advanced by the project, or to contractors or
suppliers via bank accounts with major commercial banks acceptable to the Bank. In terms of disbursement
technique, the project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds
will come from two sources: one half from appropriations by the Ministry of Commnunication (MOC) and the other
half from Xinjiang Conmmunication Bureau (XCB), and will be contributed by MOC and XCB directly to the project.
3.     No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with imnplementing agency involved in the proposed project. The
task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters and audit covenants during project
supervisions.
H.     Summary Project Description
4.     The objectives of the proposed Third Xinjiang Highway Project are:
*      Relieve traffic congestion and increase mobility along the main regional and international trade corridor
between Kuitun and Horgas at the Kazakhstan Border, the main east-west section of China's National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS);
*      Imnprove accessibility to the poor areas in the Region;
*      Enhance efficiency and effectiveness in public sector nanagement of the road network.
5.     The main components of the project include: (US$ 334,200,000; 100%)
Comnponent 1: New construction in main corridor:
*      Main highway (US$ 248,930,000; 74.6%)
*      Construction supervision (US$ 8,420,000; 2.5%)
*      Land acquisition/resettlement (IIS$ 14,390,000; 4.2%)
Component 2: Rehabilitation of local roads in poor counties (US$ 44,880,000; 13.5%)
Component 3: Capacity building:
*      Training & Traffic Safety (US$ 3,570,000; 1.1%)
*      StudieslTA (US$ 860,000; 0.3%)
*      Provision of equipment (US$ 11,650,000; 3.4%)
- 77 -



6.     The total project cost is US$ 334.20 million, of which US$ 150 million or about 44% would be IBRD
loans.
m.     Country Lssues
7.     To date, no CFAA has been performed for China, though dialogue with the Government of China in respect
of the CFAA exercise has been initiated and currently underway and hopefully the exercise will be carried out in the
near future. However, no CFAA was conducted in FY01 for China and no such a plan is scheduled in the near
future. The Bank will rely on similar exercise carried out by Asian Development Bank.
8.     Based on observations of developments in the areas of public expenditures, accounting and auditing, and
Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we noted that substantial achievement in the
aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is expected in the next few years. As economic
reform program further unfolds, the Governnent of China has come to realize the importance of establishing and
maintaining an efficient and effective market mechanism to ensure transparency and accountability, and minimize
potential fraud or corruption.
9.     Due to rather unique arrangement by the Government of China, funding (in particular Bank loan) of Bank
projects is controlled and monitored by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and its extension, i.e. finance bureaus at
provincial, municipal/prefecture and county level. However, project activities are usually carried out by
implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector. The above arrangement then usually requires more and
closer coordination on the project, as the multi-level management of the funding and implementation mechanism
someimes works to the detriment of smooth project implementation.
IV.    Risk Analysis
10.    The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during assessment:
Risk                  Risk Rating          Mitigating Measures
I. Inherent Project Risk           Moderate       Close monitoring by project management,
regular supervision mission by Bank task
team, qualified engineering supervision,
and effective external audit
II. Control Risk
a. Implementing Entity             Moderate       Project implementing entity involved in the
project has extensive experience with
Bank's projects
b. Funds Flow                      Moderate       Timely communication between project
management office and FBXUAR should
be kept at all time to ensure that Bank
funds will be released to the ultimate
beneficiaries on a timely basis
c. Staffing                        Moderate       Adequate and experienced staff have
been in place; Periodic checking on
accounting work by FBXUAR and the
task team should be performed
d. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Low        Accounting policies and procedures
applicable to the proposed project have
been promulgated by MOF
e. Intemal Audit                   Moderate       No intemal audit arrangement; however
PMO will carry out regular supervision
f. Extemal Audit                   Low            The extemal auditors, the Xinjiang Uygur
- 78 -



Autonomous Region Audit Bureau, have
extensive audit experience with Bank
projects
g. Reporting and Monitoring        Low            Format/content of financial statements
and frequency of submnission have been
clearly defined by the Bank and MOF
h. . Infornation Systems           Moderate       Regularly training will be provided by
software company and checking by the
task team at early implementation stage to
ensure correct setup
V.     Strengths and Weaknesses
11.    Strengths     The proposed project is the third Bank project to be implemented in Xinjiang. Project
personnel identified to assume financial or accounting position have relevant adequate work experience and
educational background. In addition, the project management office (PMO) for the proposed project has
accumulated extensive experience from prior two highway projects (i.e. Xinjiang Highway I and II Project) and also
will benefit from rich experience FBXUAR has had with Bank projects. To date, FBXUAR has managed more than
20 Bank financed projects in the Region and is familiar with Bank policies, procedures and requirements. Bank
records of PMO and FBXUAR indicate that both PMO and FBXUAR have been found satisfactory in respect of
project financial management and withdrawal applications.
12.    Weaknesses    The following significant weakness with resolution has been identified:
Significant weaknesses                           Resolution
Financial staffs of the implementing agency have  A comprehensive training on computerized financial
no or little experience with computerized financial  management system has been provided by software
management system.                          vendor, and the vendor will continue to provide
assistance as and when needed throughout project
implementation.
VI.    Implementing Entity
13.    Project leading group (PLG)  A project leading group chaired by Mr. Wang Yousan, Vice-Chairman
of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and consisting of representatives from line departments of Autonomous
Region Government, such as FBXUAR, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Audit Bureau, Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region Land Bureau, and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Judicial Bureau, has been formed to
provide overall guidance and coordination, and monitor project implementation.
14.    Project Management Office    Project Management Office (PMO), established under Xinjiang
Communication Bureau and headed by Mr. Aman Haji, Director of both Xinjiang Communication Bureau and
Xijiang Highway Administration Department, has been formally established. PMO will assume overall
implementation and coordination responsibility and directly implement every components of the project.
15.    In addition, the Foreign Fund Division of FBXUAR will play a major role in the project implementation,
including overall monitoring, financing arrangement, financial management, etc. FBXUAR will also be responsible
for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling special account to be established for the project, and reviewing,
verifying and approving withdrawal applications prepared by the project before submitting by FBXUAR to the Bank
for disbursement processing. The Division has h.d prior experience with Bank projects and is familiar with Bank
disbursement procedures. Consequently, for smooth and successful project implementation, close cooperation and
coordination between FBXUAR and PMO is extremely critical.
- 79 -



VII.   Funds Flow
16.    One special account will be set up at and managed by FBXUAR and on-lend agreements will be signed
between MOF and FBXUAR, and between FBXUAR and XCB. The Bank funds will flow from the Bank to the
project special account managed by FBXUAR, to PMO for reimbursement of eligible expenditures incurred and
advanced by PMO, or to contractors and suppliers. The funds flow is as follows:
|     Special account managed |_O
World Bank               by FBXUAR               Cotrctr
17.   Flows of counterpart fund will be from MOC and XCB directly to the project.
VIII. Staffing
18.    Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience commensurate with
the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful implementation of project financial
management. Based on discussions, observation and review of educational background and work experience of the
staff identified for financial and accounting positions, the task team notes that adequate and qualified staff have been
recruited and are considered appropriate for the positions they are to assume. In addition, some of the financial or
accounting staff have had prior experience with Bank's projects, which will help ensure a good starting for financial
management of the project.
19.    Some of the project staff have participated in Bank's training program in the first two highway projects.
Further training will be provided as and when needed by the task team for the project.
20.    To strengthen financial management capacity, standardize accounting procedures, achieve consistent quality
of accounting work and provide easy reference to accounting treatment, the task team has suggested that a project
financial management manual be prepared. The manual will provide detailed guidelines on financial management,
internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures. PMO
has already prepared and submitted to the Bank a draft manual, which was found satisfactory. Finalized copy will be
available to all relevant project staff before project implementation.
IX.    Accounting Policies and Procedures
21.    The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the following
regulations/circulars issued by MOF:
a. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will use the "Temporary Regulations on Financial
and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank" (Circular #127 issued in 1993) by MOF
as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of project financial statements and management reports. Accrual
accounting and double entry bookkeeping basis will be adopted by the project.
b. Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December 1996 by MOF -
includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications and retention of supporting
documentation.
c. Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January 2000 by MOF.
The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment of project activities and covers the
following:
- 80 -



*      Chart of account
*      Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
*      Standard set of project financial statements
*      Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements
The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank and
MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
*      Balance sheet
*      Statement of source and use of fund
*      Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement
*      Statement of-special account
22.    Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration of unique characteristics of Bank
projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of International Accounting Standards and provides
detailed guidelines to accounting for activities of an infrastructure project.
23.    PMO will be managing, monitoring and maintaining project accounting records. Original supporting
documents for project activities will be retained by PMO. In addition, PMO will prepare project financial statements
and submit them to the Bank for reviews and comments on a regular basis.
X.     Internal Audit
24.    The PMO has no formal Internal Audit department. However, PMO and FBXUAR will conduct regular
checking.
XI.    External Audit
25.    The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards acceptable to
the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be audited in accordance with the
Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region Audit Bureau (XUARAB) has been identified as auditors for the project. Annual audit reports will be issued
in the name of XUARAB and subject to reviews by the China National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently
accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or provincial or regional audit bureaus for which CNAO is ultimately
responsible.
26.    Audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of the end of
each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special Account.
XII.   Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
27.    The format and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard project reporting
package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with the project. The project
financial statements will be submitted to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (prior to October 1 and April 1 of the
subsequent year) and include the following four statements:
*      Balance Sheet;
*      Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
*      Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
*      Statement of Special Account
- 81 -



XIII. Information Systems
28.    A computerized financial management system has been in place in the PMO since October 2001, and a
widely accepted accounting software, Yongyou, has been used to keep track of activities of both domestic and
Bank's projects managed by the PMO, including the proposed project. Though financial staff have gained
experience from prior two highway projects, they have little experience in computerized information system.
Financial staff have received computer training provided by software vendor and additional training will be offered
throughout the project should the needs arise. The task team will closely monitor the implementation of
computerized financial management system and provide assistance as and when needed.
XIV.   Impact of Procurement Arrangements
29.    The impact of procurement arrangements of the project on financial management is considered to be
minimal. Threshold set for procurement post-review will be consistent with that set for SOE for disbursement
purpose.
XV.    Disbursement Arrangements
30.    The project will be disbursing on traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using PMR-based
disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
31.    Bank loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows (i) civil works for Kui-Sai
Highway: 48% of expenditures, (ii) civil works for LRRP: 36% of expenditures, (ii) equipment: 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of other items procured locally, and (iii) TA: 91%
and training: 100% of expenditures.
32.    Disbursement methods, such as replenishment of special account, direct payment and special commitment,
are available for the project. The SOE limits will be set up in line with procurement post-review threshold, as
follows: (i) all contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 250,000 or less; (ii) all civil works to cost
the equivalent of USD 2 million or less; (iii) consultant contract estimated to cost USD 100,000 or less for firms.
33.    One special account (SA) for the project will be established and maintained by FBXUAR. The authorized
allocation of SA will be equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via SA. The allocation of
SA is proposed to not exceed USD 11 million.
34.    FBXUAR will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of
the SA activities of the project. Supporting documents required for withdrawal applications will be prepared and
submitted by PMO to FBXUAR for verification before sending by FBXUAR to the Bank for further disbursement
processing.
XVI. Action plan
35.    The following represents a time-bound action plan required of the project that is not considered serious
enough to withhold project processing:
Action                 Responsible person             Completion Date
1. Financial management      PMO                         July 31, 2002
manual finalized and issued to
relevant project staff
-82-



XVII. Condition
36.    Condition for the project is set as follows:
Negotiation:          none
Board presentation:   none
Effectiveness:        none
Disbursement:         none
XVIII. Financial Covenants
37.    There is no specific financial covenants for the project, other than the standard ones, e.g. maintaining
project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices, audit requirement and SOE, as described in the legal
document.
XIX.   Supervision Plan
38.    More frequent supervision mission is recommended at the initial implementation stage, as the newly
established computerized financial management infornation system may present a challenge to project
financial/accounting staff. Such mission will ensure proper accounting operations and assess the needs of training.
From mid-point on, annual supervision mission for financial management aspects may be sufficient. In addition, to
maximize efficiency and effectiveness of supervision mission, we recommend that procurement and financial
management reviews can be carried out simultaneously.
- 83 -



Annex 14: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
A. Background
1.     The Environmental Assessment (EA) for this project was carried out by Xinjiang Environmental
Techniques and Assessment Center (XETAC). The draft EA documents were reviewed by the Bank and
discussed with Xinjiang Communications Department (XCD) during several missions and through e-mails from
May 2001 to January 2002. The fifth and final draft Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA),
Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and EA Summary was submitted to the Bank in February 2002.
2.     During the EA work, the local people in the project area were intensively consulted, and their opinions
are reflected in the project design to increase underpasses or flyovers and to upgrade culverts for pedestrians and
vehicles.
3.     The national policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were satisfied during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as was the Bank's OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. The following major laws and regulations applied to the EA of Xinjiang m Highway
Project.
(a)    Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
(b)    Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(c)    Water and Soil Conservation Law of PRC;
(d)    Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)    Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(f)    Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC; and
(g)    Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects
Financed by International Financial Organizations.
B. Brief Project Description
4.     The project includes: (a) 311.5 km of a highway from Kuitun City to Sailimu Lake, and (b) Local
Roads Rehabilitation Program (LRRP) focusing on important road links from the major townships to the
provincial and national highways in the rural regions of Xinjiang, the first year program includes 267 km
rehabilitation.
5.     The proposed highway commences from the western end of the Urumqi-Kuitum Highway under the
Bank-financed Xinjiang II highway project; it stretches west to Sailimu Lake. This route has, since ancient
times, been a crucial passage for cultural exchange between China and western countries and is named as one of
the three Silk Roads. More than 80 % of the alignment will be upgrade of the existing road. The highway starts
with new expressway, which is limited to only the first 18.5 km from Kuitun City. For the next 171 km the
existing road will be upgraded to Class 1 except for 42 km of two bypasses for residential areas. The last
section, 58 km, will be upgraded only to Class 2. As to the five road sections of the LRRP, four will be
upgraded to Class 2, and one will remain Class 3.
C. Baseline Environmental Description
6.     Geography and Meteorological Conditions. The proposed Kuisai Highway is located on the northern
foot of Tianshan Mountain and the southern edge of Junggar Basin. The section from Kuitun to Jinghe is about
260-330 m above sea level, and forms horizontally alluvial and diluvial plains. The section from Jinghe River to
Sailimu Lake is 330-2118 m above sea level, which belongs to Bortala Valley. The proposed highway mainly
lies at the edge of an oasis, passing agriculture fields of 42 km (13% of total length) and 269.5 km of desert
(87% of the total).
7.     The areas through which the proposed highway passes belong to a continental dry climate. The basic
- 84 -



climate characteristic in the areas is that the difference in annual and daily temnperatures can be great, annual
rainfall is little, and evaporation is considerable. The annual average temperature is range 5.8C-7.3C. Annual
average rainfall is 91.4-183.2 mm, while annual average maximum evaporation is 1562.4-2046 mm, which is
greater than rainfall. Maximum drifting snow depth reaches 13-41 cm. Maximum wind speed is 20 m(s.
8.     Socioeconomic Situations. The Kuisai Highway starts from Kuitun City, passing through Wusu City,
Jinghe County, Bole City, and reaches at Sailimu Lake. Wusu City has a population of 0.2 million, and, in 1999
the GDP was RMB 2,000 million. The major business of Wusu City is agriculture, while its industry chiefly
concentrates on further processing of agricultural products. Jinghe County has a population of is 0.1 million, and
in 1998 the GDP was RMB 570 million. Its principal revenues are from agriculture and animal husbandry. Bole
City has a population of 0.2 million, and in 1999 the GDP was RMB 1,100 million. The agriculture in Bole has
developed quickly and the industry concentrates on processing of cotton products. At Sailimu Lake, every July,
the Mongolian and Kazak herds meet without pre-appointment and hold the Nada Pageant to celebrate the
harvest by sport and entertainment activities. The colorful and interesting folk activities form the resources of
cultural tourism and have become the important content of folk custom and cultural tour. The number of towns
and villages within 200 m of either side of the alignment is 11 and their total population is 12,253.
9.     Ecological Environmnent. The project area comprises oasis, natural desert, and towns. Along the
alignment the natural desert is dominant, 270 km / 311.5 km. The basic feature of vegetation along the highway
is fragile vegetation with few types and simple structure. In the proposed project area, there are no Protected
Areas. A local expert identified six state-protected species, which are desert plants and very common in this
region. Along the whole line, the wild animals are mainly birds and rodent, concentrating in oases, grasslands
and near the rivers. Two relevant local forestry departments confirmed that there are no critical natural habitats.
It was also crosschecked with "A Biodiversity Review of China" by WWF and with "A Directory of Asian
Wetlands" by rUCN that there exists no ecologically important area along the alignments.
10.    Existing Noise and Air Quality. Fourteen noise sensitive spots were identified; five schools, one
hospital, and eight residential areas. Monitoring was conducted in August 1999, which was a season of harvest
with more agricultural vehicle than other seasons. It showed that (1) class 1 noise standard was satisfied at all
the schools in daytime but not at the hospital, for which mitigation measures would be taken; (2) class 4 noise
standard was satisfied at two residential areas, but not for the rest of six villages, which would be resettled in the
future. Air quality is good and mneets the standards
11.    Water Quality. The quality of water is good in the Jinghe, Sikeshu, and Kuitun Rivers, complying
even with Class 2 standard. The fluorine level in Gurtu River exceeds the standard by less than 30%, because of
the underground water. The Highway over-passes all the rivers and ditches, and is not parallel to them. As
Sailimu Lake is a volcanic lake ,all the mineral and acid indicators exceed the standard in particular S04-2 and
total hardness. However BOD and COD are extremely low.
12.    Cultural Relics. According to a survey conducted by XETAC and confirmed by the local cultural
relics bureau, the EIA states that there are no cultural relics within 200 m on either side of the project alignment.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
Main Hiehwav Component
Lessons Learned from Xinjiang I & II Highway Projects
13.    Based on their experience of Xinjiang I and II Highway Project the following measures will be taken:
(1) the designs of borrow pits and quarries will be improved to prevent people and herds from falling in; (2) it is
forbidden to establish quarries and pre-cast yards in the Sailimu Lake scenic area; (3) it is required to construct
auxiliary roads with asphalt surface prior to the mainline construction in order to prevent random drives and
damages to vegetations; (4) water should be sprayed in material storage sites, batching plants and during
sub-grade construction to reduce dust pollution; and (5) local species of plants will be planted for low cost and
easy survival.
- 85 -



14.    As to the implementation of mitigation measures, each contractor will be required to prepare its own
environmental action plan (EAP) in order to ensure that the contractors may take necessary measures identified
in the EA. At the sane timne, each contractor will be required to have a training semninar for its work forces
before construction, letting them understand its EAP and how to realize it in their daily construction works.
Design Phase
15.    Alternatives Analysis. The first proposal by the client was to make a new expressway from Kuitun to
Sailimu Lake. However, the proposal was not accepted by the Bank because of its vast potential impacts to the
ecological environment. During the preparation of the project, other alternatives were developed. To protect
ecological environment, the best way is to reduce new alignments. The new alternative plans are to limit the
expressway to only the first 18.5 kin; for the next 171 krn, the existing road will be up graded to Class I except
for 42 km of new alignment; and for the last Sailimu Lake section, the existing 58 km road will be slightly
upgraded to Class 2 instead of upgrading to Class I. This is the biggest change of the design of the project from
environmental reasons.
16.    In addition, three micro-level alternative analyses were conducted. At the moving sand dune area, a new
alignment of 12.6 km was selected in order to avoid sand damages, which the existing road is suffering from. At
populated areas near Wusu and Jinghe, new bypasses of 17 km and 25 km respectively will be constructed in
order to avoid noise and air pollution by the proposed highway.
17.    Analysis of the no-project option was conducted. It was stated that construction of a new highway is
urgent and indispensable for economic and social development of the Xinjiang region. It also indicated that
highway construction has positive impacts to the acoustic environment, because without the project the
residential areas along the existing roads would suffer seriously from noise and air pollution caused by the
increasing traffic volume. Although some adverse impact on vegetations is expected, it can be reduced to a
tolerable level by taking mitigation measures. Consequently, the total benefit of constructing a new road is
greater for the people in Xinjiang than doing nothing.
18.    Social Disruption. In order to prevent social disruption by the highway, 45 small bridges, 9 medium
bridges, 8 pedestrian flyovers, and 16 underpasses for vehicles will be constructed. There are 8 herd ways along
the line. In addition, in 5 interchange/intersection and 41 culverts can be used as herd way. On Class II road,
livestock can pass. As there are only 42 km length of the Project with residents, the aforementioned passes are
regarded as enough for traffic needs.
19.    Landscape. Landscape design will be carefully conducted, which focusing on roadside protection,
preventing soil erosion, and rehabilitation of vegetation.
20.     Borrow Pits. The design of borrow pits will be improved to avoid steep slopes and achieve fast
rehabilitation. Places to make borrow pits will be carefully chosen in order that construction work may not
damage vegetation. In particular, there will be no borrow pits in Sailimu Lake area.
Construction Phase
21.    Noise. Heavy machinery operation and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts on the
acoustic environment in the populated project areas. Strict regulations on the schedule of construction works
will be implemented to minirnize such adverse impacts. Heavy machinery operation will be prohibited between
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
22.    Air Pollution. Dust during the construction work was identified as a major environmental impact at
this stage of the project. Asphalt mixing plants will be located at least 1,000 m from residential areas on the
leeward. Material sites and mixing sites will be at least 100 m away from residents. Construction sites and
mixing sites will be regularly sprayed with water.
- 86 -



23.    Water Pollution. Wastewater from construction sites and camps will be discharged into the river after
being adequately treated. Domestic solid wastes from construction sites and camps will be regularly collected
and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Waste soil and stones in construction sites will be removed to the
designated waste yards where sedimentation facilities will be installed.
24.    Vegetation. Special attention has been paid to protect fragile vegetation. Two ecologically sensitive
areas (Sailimu Lake and Shaqiudaoban) have been identified, where it will take long time for vegetations to
recover once they are damaged. Various mitigation measures will be taken including: original topsoil will be
stockpiled safely to re-use to rehabilitate the vegetation after the completion of construction work; and waste
earth and discard materials will be strictly managed in particular in the ecologically sensitive spots. In Sailimu
Lake area, no quarries, material yards, or borrow pits will be made. Access roads will be covered by asphalt and
sprayed with water periodically in order to prevent random drives and dust impacts, which will damage
vegetation. Enough fuel will be supplied to construction workers, and the use of protected plants for firewood
will be prohibited. After the completion of construction, temporarily occupied lands and temporary construction
roads will be leveled and planted with local trees and grasses.
25. Tree Cutting. The project utilizes the existing alignment as much as possible in order to reduce its impacts
to natural vegetation. Accordingly a large number of hand-planted trees along the existing road will be cut. By
optimization of the final design, the number of big trees (more that 20 cm in diameter) to be cut drastically
decreased from 8856 to 3997. In addition the same or more number of trees than that to be cut will be planted
by the completion of civil works.
26.    Cultural Relics. It is not anticipated, but if any cultural relics are found during construction,
excavation will be stopped immediately, and the local cultural authority will be informed of the discovery.
Construction will not resume until the cultural relics have been identified by the authorized institution and
necessary preservation measures have been taken.
Operation Phase
27.    Noise. It is predicted that noise levels at some schools and a hospital will exceed the standard. For
compliance with the standard, (1) green belt will be constructed with trees, (2) enclosing walls will be
heightened, and (3) function of buildings will be changed, when necessary by the project cost.
28.    Water Pollution. Wastewater from service centers or toll stations will be discharged into the river
after being adequately treated. Domestic solid wastes from there will be canned and regularly collected.
29.    Vegetation. Land for temporary use will be cleaned up for rehabilitation after construction.
Vegetation in sensitive area will be rehabilitated through recovering original topsoil, sowing local grass seeds,
and water maintenance.
30. Indirect Impact. Though the project ends 1 km before Sailimu Lake, indirect impacts by increasing tourists
to the Sailimu Lake are potentially expected, including random parking, construction of hotels, wastewater
treatment, and scattering of garbage. The EIA recommends construction of appropriate parking areas,
establishment of garbage collecting system, continuous water quality monitoring.
Local Roads Rehabilitation Proeram (LRRP)
31.    There is no new construction nor will land acquisition be included in the program. There appears to be
no legally recognized Protected Areas in the program area. The ecological and cultural environment were
surveyed and no critical natural habitats or cultural property were found. The existing air and acoustic
environments were monitored and potential impacts were projected. As construction works comprise a relatively
small portion of the rehabilitation of existing roads, little environmental impacts are expected from the program.
32.    As a result of environmental screening, major potential environmental impacts are identified as noise
- 87 -



and dust pollution during the construction. In order to.minimize the environmental impacts of the project, a
variety of mitigation measures have been integrated into the EAP, including noise and air pollution protection
water pollution protection, soil and vegetation protection, traffic safety.
E. Environmental Monitoring
33.    During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify
the project's actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. The monitoring will cover pollution related issues, ecological
environment, and social issues. Environmental monitoring will be conducted by Xinjiang Environmental
Monitoring Center. The results of monitoring will be reported both quarterly and annually to the Bank and to
relevant local authorities. The environmental monitoring plans are provided in Table below.
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
34.    In order to supervise environment protection by each contractor, Xinjiang High Grade Highway
Construction Authority (XHGHCA) will set up Representative Office of Chief Supervision Engineer (with two
part-ime environment staff) in Urumqi under the Project Executive Office. In Resident Engineering Office in
Jinghe, six part-time staff will be assigned to work on environment protection. Fifteen Supervision Groups will
be set up for each contract. It will be required for each contractor to assign one part-time staff for environment
protection. In addition, Engineering Supervision Department of XHGHCA (with two full-time environment
staffs) will be in charge of coordination between construction units and environment management, and report
periodically the status of environmental management to relative upper departments.
35.    To enhance environmental protection knowledge and skill, key environmental protection staff will
receive intensive training. The training program includes lectures by experts, site visits to similar projects, and
periodic national or international training. A training budget of US$ 61,000 has been allocated.
36.    As to the implementation of mitigation measures, each contractor will be required to prepare its own
enviromnental action plan (EAP) in order to ensure that the contractors may take necessary measures identified
in the EA. At the same time, each contractor will be required to have a training seminar for its work forces
before construction, letting them understand its EAP and how to realize it in their daily construction works.
Without the authorization of its own EAP by XCD, each contractor will not be allowed to start its construction
work. This is an explicit example of lessons learnt from previous projects.
IL Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
37.    Public Consultation and Feedback. A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to the
World Bank's guideline: (a) shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the EA
were finalized (August 1999); and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared (September 2001). The
consultation was conducted through meetings and surveys with questionnaires at 13 towns and villages. The
number of affected people are estimated as 12,253, among which 653 person (about 5%) were consulted,
including individual citizens, organizations of concemed villagers, and village committees.
38.    Apart from the resettlement-related issues, the public showed concerns about social disruption by
expressway, and environmental protection during construction. They requested that adequate mitigation
measures be taken. Their feedback is reflected in the engineering designs and the EAP. As the results, 15
underpasses for agricultural machines, 8 pedestrian flyovers will be added, and 2 culverts will be widened for
motor vehicles, 14 for pedestrians and 20 for herd.
39.    Information Disclosure. The fifth and final EA report and EAP were submitted to the Bank in
February 2002. The EA documents were disclosed locally in February 2002 with an advertisement in the local
newspaper, and were sent to the World Bank's InfoShop for disclosure at the same time.



Table 1 Summary of Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measurers During Design Phase
Noise Pollution    1. The alignment shall avoid noise sensitive spots, far away from hospital, school and residential
area.
1. Sewage treatment design for service area: to ensure the discharged waste water from living and
Water pollution    production is up to standard;
Soil Erosion     1. Collecting of soil shall be minimized in longitude cross-section to fulfill the requirements of
plantation protection and water and soil conservation;
And           2. Take the existing water conservancy facilities into consideration of engineering design of bridges
Sand Damage       and culverts to avoid blockage of water and guarantee surface runoff against flooding or water
logging;
3. Subgrade protection work against soil erosion to meet the flood-control requirements;
4. Highway drainage work against soil erosion;
5. Design of facilities against accident risk (guardrail on large bridge, etc.);
6. Environmental protection planning design for construction period shall be completed at the same
time with construction organization design.
7. Setting up sand baniers in desert sections, plant windbreak, sand-controlling forest and sand
barriers. Roadbed height and roadside slopes in aeolian sand sections, should guarantee sand shift
across the road, and prevent sand accumulation on road and roadsides from forming sand sea.
8. In Sailimu Lake scenic sppt, material field cannot be built, forbidding taking material from
channels, prevent changing the original river direction from creating new bank erosion.
Ecology         1. The existing highway will be utilized as much as possible to protect natural environment. The
EcoloY      first proposal was 100% new expressway, which is now less than 20% expressway and the rest is
upgrading the existing road.
2. The design of quarry shall facilitate transportation and minimize the impact to local roads;
restoration of plantation at borrow pit area;
3. Rehabilitation of vegetation at construction sites and at temporarily used lands will be
incorporated into the civil work plannings so that top soil should be kept aside for further
rehabilitation.
1. With results of public consultations, more pedestrian flyovers, herd ways will be constructed for
Social Economy     convenient life and work of the local residents.
2. Keep underpasses and flyovers unblocked for traffic.
Air Pollution     1. The alignment shall avoid air sensitive spots, far away from hospital, school and residential area.
Mitigation Measures During Construction Phase
Noise          1. Construction time under control (if school nearby, suspend noisy machinery construction during
school time; if village nearly, suspend strong noisy machinery construction at night 10:00 pm -
Pollution       6:00 am);
2. Protection to machinery operators and site workers;
3. Quarry, mixing plant away from sensitive spots * lOOOm
Water     .    1. A septic tank for waste water from construction camp site, living garbage disposed with garbage
bucket or pit;
Pollution       2. During construction of bridges, pollutant like petroleum and chemical objects shall be prevented
from falling into water, tailings of excavation shall not be left on river course or river bed;
3. Construction materials containing harmful matters such as asphalt, fly ash and chemicals can not
be piled nearby rivers, canals and ditches, and drinking water source, and appropriate measures
shall be taken to avoid being washed by rainwater into waters;
4. Construction waste water shall not be discharged into waters, a small evaporation pond is
required if necessary;
5. Construction waste and garbage shall not be dumped nearby waters, which shall be removed or
disposed with relevant stipulations.
6. Water in Sailimu Lake should be taken from appointed place, and keep cars clean, do not take
oil pollution into water body.
Soil Erosion      1. Sedimentation tank is required or enclosed with geotextle if necessary in rain season for earth
fill subgrade and mixing site; the slope cannot bigger than 40 degree.
2. Conduct subgrade side slope protection work.
1. Sandy section: No borrow pits are allowed in the wind gap. Right-of-way should be strictly
-89 -



Ecology         controlled. Water sprayed twice a day. Sand fixation is required.
2. It is forbidden to establish borrow pits in farmlands. After construction, the sites should be
restored. Keep all sorts of underpasses unblocked. Pipe culverts should be unblocked during April
to October and also should be unblocked in the flood season from March to September.
3. Desert and bush/woods: Try best not to damage vegetation in the right-of-way. Construction
camps are not allowed to establish in the woods. It is forbidden to use the plants and vegetations as
firewood.
4. The Sailimu Lake: Right-of-way should be strictly controUled. 40 cm of topsoil should be
collected for future restoration.
5. Earthwork balance: In the section from Sitai to the Sailimu Lake, earthwork balance must
comply with the design.
6. Borrow pits: borrow pits must be at least 50 m away from the roadside and the depth must be
less than 4 n. It is better achieve earth and stones in bottom lands. No boiTow pots allowed in
Sailimu Lake area.
7. Protection of wildlife: Construction staff shall not hunt for birds.
Air Pollution     1. Avoid construction dusting: spray water on road sections under construction, cement and soil
mixing site and major transportation access; quarry and mixing site away from sensitive spots
*lOOm;
2. Powdery materials (lime, cement) shaU be packed in bags or tanks for transportation, bulk
transportation is not allowed; piled materials shall be covered;
3. Transportation vehicles shall have cover sheet, and materials transported shall be mixed with
relevant materials as soon as possible:
4. Advance equipment shall be used for mixing of asphalt materials, and Class I emission standard
in GB4916-85 shaU be met; asphalt mixing plant away from sensitive spots 1OOOrm, and the
location on the leeward of leading wind.
Social, Cultural reics, and I. On completion of construction, temporary used lands shall be cleared, soil loosened for tilling;
SafeCutur reICS,an non-cultivated land occupied shall be cleared on time as well;
Safety      2. In the rush hour, transport vehicles should stop so that noise can be reduced for better
environment.
3. When local roads are interfered by construction, temporary roads should be available for
passing.
4. The local roads damaged during construction periods should be repaired or compensated.
5. When underpasses for agricultural vehicles should not be constructed in harvest seasons or
leave some passing places instead.
6. During construction, if any cultural relics are found, it should be reported to the local
government and the site should be protected. Construction can not start again without the opinions
of the deparunent of Cultural Relics.
7. Access road should be constructed prior to construction in the Sailimu Lake area to ensure the
normal tourism.
.8. During construction of sub-grade and pavement, all sorts of herd ways and underpasses should
be kept unblocked to guarantee passing of agricultural vehicles, other vehicles and livestock.
9. Strengthen traffic management during construction period to ensure the safety of the residents.
lO.When constructing in the residential areas, warn signs should be set up for safety.
Mitigation Measures for Operational Phase
Environmental      1. Daily management activities;
Manageomental     2. Maintenance of environmeuital protection facilities;
Management        3. Implementation of environmental monitoring program.
Noise Pollution    1. In several schools, enclosing walls (2 m height x 200 m long) and green-wood belts (5 m width
Noise Pllution x 200 m long) will be made.
2. In Toli County Hospital, 2 m high enclosing wall will be constructed and the function of the
front building will be changed with the project cost.
Water Polution    1. Living sewage water from service area can be used for landscaping purpose following treatment,
however, it shaU not join to surface water;
2. Collecting and removal of solid waste from service areas, management stations and toll stations.
3. Life sewage of toll station near Sailimu Lake need treatment for recovery of surrounding
vegetation, preventing it into the lake.
Ecology         1. Landscaping along the highway: In the Sailimnu Lake tourism area, construction sites are
required to be restored 100%. Additionally, in the places where the Highway runs through cities,
towns and farmland 100% restoration is also required. Landscaping in toll stations and parking
- 90 -



areas should be 10% - 20% of the total area. Mitigation measures for sand damage should be taken
for the desert section of Jinghe.
2. Heishantou to Shaquanzi Section: In this sensitive spot, local plans will be,planted for nature
recovery and for sand fixation with dripping or spraying irrigation system..
3. Sitai - Sailimnu Lake: In this sensitive spot, the topsoil will be returned. In order to have
effective restoration, local glasses will be planted.
4. Restoration and leveling of construction sites: in the Project corridor, most of the areas belong
to dry climate lack of water. Construction sites should be leveled with certain roughness, then
spread some top soil and water. When raining season comes, it can be naturally restored.
1. After construction and before operation, the construction of various passages, connection with
Social and Safety   relative roads and setting of safety signs should be finished;
2. Reinforce the management of traffic safety in interchanges, sufficiently play the function of
highway, avoid traffic stop and reduce traffic accidents.
3. Periodically maintenance to each kind of underpasses to ensure normal traffic.
4. Enhance traffic safety management, and timely clear snow to prevent accidents
91 -



Table 2 Environmental Monitoring Plan for Kuisai Highway
Stage                Monitoring Site          Monitoring Items          Monitoring Frequency
Noise              Construction Phase  Harmaotun Primary School,                           Once a month, 2-3 days
Huanggong Village,                                   (3 times a day)
No.2 Middle School of     Noise Leq (A)
Bajiahu,
Hospital of Toli Xiang
No. 2 Middle School of
Toli Xiang.
Operation Phase       same above                                        Once a season, 2 days,
.______________________  ________________________    (6  tim es  a  day)
Air Quality        Construction Phase  Gaoquan Town,             TSP                       Once a month, 5 days,
Jinghe County,                                      (>12 hours a day)
Toli Xiang,
Shashanzi
Sailimu Lake.
Operation Phase                               TSP, NMHC, N02, CO        Once a season, 5 days
(>18 hours a day)
Surface Water      Construction       Sailimu Lake               pH, Petroleum, COD        Once a month, 3-5 days,
Phase                                                                   (Once a day)
Operation                                                               Once a season, 3-5 days,
Phase                                                                   (Once a day)
Ecology            Construction Phase   Construction sections    Vegetation, soil erosion,  Once a month, 5 days
(within 1,000 m),       implementation of EAP
borrow pits,             etc.,
construction camps,
etc.
Operation Phase     Eclogically sensitive spots Rehabilitation of Vegetation  wice a year
Livestock          Construction Phase   Visiting and             Conditions of smooth      Twice a year
migration and                           investigating along      movements                 (Spring and Autumn)
asture                                 whole line
- 92 -



Table 3 Investment Estimation for Envirommental Protection
Issue                             Environmental Protection Measures                               Amount
(RMlBY
10,000)
Design Phase
Design        Public Consultation                                                                     8
Environmental Impact Assessment                                                        67
Construction Phase
Noise        Protection of construction machinery operators and stand-by supervision engineers       10
Design of garbage pit and septic tank for construction site and removal of garbage.    30
Water         Rivers to be protected during construction of underpasses and bridges against pollution;  200
Measures to keep piled construction materials from being washed by rain water;
Treatment of waste water from construction; Restoration of construction sites.
Air         Spray water appropriately at construction sites;                                        60
Powder materials must be transported with bags or tanks and covered when heaped.       30
Ecology       Restoration of construction sites and quarries;                                        610
Treatment of waste materials                                                           100
Earth balance                                                                           70
Safety        Safety facilities in construction area and safety monitoring.                           5
Early Stage of   Environmental monitoring and management                                                84
Construction and
During Construction
Period.
Operation Phase
1. Daily management                                                                    80
Env. Management   2. Maintenance of EP works                                                             200
3Sandy area and the Sailimu Lake area                                                  400
Environmental     Noise, air, ecology                                                                   200
Monitoring
Staff training  Staff training                                                                         20
Items to be purchased for Environment Protection
Ecological     Landscaping in toll stations and service areas 12                                      320
Restoration
Restoration of street trees                                                            600
Eco. Restoration  Landscaping in interchange areas 3                                                    920
Administration fee and maintenance years                                               345
Saddamage                                                                                             3
Sand tme        Grass squares 8 km                                                                      30
Treatment
Ecological measures 8 km                                                               460
Restoration of   Restoration of grass land from Sitai to Sailimu Lake 20 km                             160
- 93 -



Scenic place
Sigpsof "No Horm" 18                                                                 1.8
Others       Enclosing walls and wood belt for hospital and school 6                              71.4
Treatrent of sewage and garbage in toll stations and service areas 12                240
Treatment facilities of solid garbage 12                                              24
Staff training  Staff training                                                                        50
Total                                                                                            5396.2
-94-



Annex 15: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan Summary
CHINA: Third Xlnjiang Highway Project
The Kuitun-Sailimu Highway (KSH) component cornprises 18.5 kilometers of expressway with 4 lanes, 235
kilometers of Class 1 highway and 58 kilometers of Class 2 highway, 10 interchange, 8 overpasses, 30 underpasses,
1 Expressway Management Office and 2 service areas.
The KSH alignment was finalized according to the preliminary technical design completed in September 2000.
During September to November 2000, Xinjiang Highway Executive Office (PEO) set up teams to start the field
survey work. The Land Resources Administration Departments and local governments also participated in the
census of affected people and inventory of affected assets. The census and various different categories of impacts
were identified and recorded in tabular format for each household and village. They were verified and signed off by
the village leader, the head of the household and the investigation team. Then, the PEO established another team to
the filed for preparing resettlement rehabilitation plan during March 2001.
Socioeconomic Survey
Resettlement planning is based on preliminary design. Resettlement planning is based on a census of the affected
population, an inventory of impacted assets, a socioeconomic survey, a social assessment and continuous
consultations with the affected population. The socioeconomic survey conducted by PEO is to analyze the project
impacts, understand the socioeconomic background in the project areas as the basis for resettlement planning and
consult the affected people for their feedback into the resettlement planning.
The project starts at the east of Kuitun county and ends at Sailimu Lake. Planting industry is the main agricultural
activity and crops include wheat and cotton. Average yield is comparatively low here and land holding per capita is
about 4.1 mu. Animal husbandry is also an important rural activity. In the project areas along the expressway,
farmers' non-farm income is generally higher. Non-farm activities has become an important source of income.
Farmers normally go out as wage laborers, some long-term and some seasonal.
Project Impact
According to the project RAP, the project will affect 21 villages in 11 townships in 4 counties. The project will
require land acquisition and demolition of houses. The project will require the permanent acquisition of 6,112.7 mu
(407.5 hectares) of land. This includes 1,953.7 mu (130.3 hectares) of cultivated land, 7.4 mu (0.5 hectares) of
vegetable land, 18.4 mu (1.2 hectares) of orchard land, and 38.4 mu ( 2.6 hectares) forestry land. Of the collective
cultivated land to be acquired, about 845.3 mu (56.3 hectares) is contracted farm land which is used by private
farmers. Of the collective non-cultivated land to be acquired, about 616.1 mu ( about 41 hectares) is house plots,
about 924.3 mu (62 hectares) desert wasteland and 2,554.4 mu (170 hectares) of land which is used by rural roads.
An additional 13,904.8 mu (927 hectares) of collective grass land will be used temporarily during the construction
period.
Structural demolition of private residential housing is expected to total 33,987.58 square meters, with 145
households (579 individuals) affected. A total of 331 households with 1,450 individuals will be affected by land
acquisition. There are no enterprises or units to be affected.
Relatively minor design changes are likely to continue until implementation. Typically, final designs result in
marginal decreases in land acquisition and structural demolition, as well as changes in proportion among categories
of affected land and structures.
Legal Framework
The project adopted the following policies in its resettlement planning and the standing resettlement framework for
rural roads:
*   World Bank Operative Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
- 95 -



* Land Administration Law of PRC
*   Implementation Regulations of the Land Law of PRC
*   Forest Law of PRC
*   Mineral Resources Law of PRC
*   Relevant Xinjiang Autonomous Region Regulation on Land, Grassland, Water Resources and Forest Resources
The following policy principles are followed in developing the Resettlement Action Plan,
*   All possible measures will be explored to minimize adverse impacts, including engineering, technical and
economic measures
*   The objective of resettlement planning is to increase or at least restore the living standard of the affected
population
*   All affected assets will be compensated at replacement cost without depreciation
* The affected people and local govermments will be consulted over the compensation rates
*   Comnpensation fund will be paid 3 months before acquisition of the assets
*   Resettlement will be land-based, with non-farm industrial employment as complementary measures
*   The affected people and the host population will be encouraged to participate in resettlement planning
*   Resettlers will be relocated within existing villages
Compensation Standards
The PEO consults and negotiates the compensation with each county involved. The actual compensation rates will
be based on replacement cost for various categories of affected assets. For the land comnpensation, it will be based
on the highest average annual output value per mu among the same land in the affected counties. In each case,
however, compensation rates meet or exceed legal requirements, and meet or exceed replacement cost valuation.
The land compensation rates for irrigated land are Yuan 8,898.14 (about US$1,085) per mu, which is 10 times the
average agricultural output. The amount of resettlement subsidy for loss of irrigated land is tabulated in the RAP.
For grass dry land, the land compensation rate is Yuan 390 (about US$48) per mu, which is about 7.8 times the
annual average output of Yuan 50. In addition, for the relatively small amounts of house plot land to be acquired,.
the compensation rate (excluding resettlement subsidy) is Yuan 6,840 per mu. For desert wasteland, the project will
pay a nominal compensation of Yuan 50 (about US$6) per mu yearly.
Compensation rates for affected structures are based on replacement cost. The rate for residential structures
constructed primarily of brick and concrete will be Yuan 330 (about US$ 40.2) per square meter. For residential
structures constructed primarily of brick and wood, the rate will be Yuan 270 (about US$ 33) per square meter. For
residential structures constructed primarily of brick and earth, the rate will be Yuan 160 (about US$ 20) per square
meter.
In many cases, local authorities may increase compensation rates for acquired land and demolished structures in
response to local variations in property valuation or to meet other local contingencies. In all cases, however,
compensation will meet or exceed standards established in the RAP.
The project also will affect public infrastructure. Compensation based on replacement value will be paid to the
relevant government agencies or local governments to restore the affected infrastructure and services.
Resettlement Budget And Disbursement
The RAP contains detailed compensation rates for all impacted assets. They were arrived at according to the above
principles and after consultation with local governments and the. affected people. Land compensation was estimated
at 10 times of the average output value per mu for the entire project areas. Detailed unit rate analysis was conducted
to determine the replacement costs for different types of houses. They are described in the RAP. Compensation for
affected public facilities was estimnated at reconstruction cost.
A detailed resettlement budget has been developed per village based on of the inventory and the compensation rates.
-96-



This budget includes the base cost, management fees and contingencies. The base cost includes compensation fund
for land, standing crops, houses, attached structures, facilities, land acquisition tax, resettlement subsidy, fund for
land leveling, training and monitoring. The management fee is about 9% of the base cost. Contingency is estimated
at 10% of the base cost respectively for physical and price. The total resettlement budget is Yuan 64.2 million, about
3% of the total project budget. Resettlement will be financed entirely through counterpart funds.
Resettlement funds will be disbursed from the project office to the various entitled units through the resettlement
offices at prefecture and county. Land compensation will be paid to the villages from county government agencies
as well as compensation for standing crops. The project office will open specific account to each village and allocate
land compensation 3 months before the village land requirement, meanwhile, the project office will assign a local
bank to sup'ervise the process of land compensation disbursement. For the private houses and other private assets,
those compensations will be paid directly to the affected farmers and individuals through specific local bank
accounts. Compensation for affected public facilities will be paid to the concerned government agencies.
Livelihood Restoration
Relocation of households. The villages will provide new residential plots and the specific house sites will be
finalized through consultation of the affected households. Farmers will build their own new houses with cash
compensation. All relocating households will be serviced with existing public facilities and infrastructure. No need
for additiQnal village infrastructure is anticipated.
Rehabilitation of public facilities. The infrastructure facilities impacted are mainly irrigation canals, power and
telecommunication lines, and transport facilities. For these facilities, compensation based on the replacement cost
will be paid to the respective owners. The project office conducted specific survey for irrigation canal recovery and
underpasses for herds. The results have been reflected in the RAP, meanwhile, the records have been provided to the
design institute for further design review. The affected irrigation canals and underpasses will be reconstructed by the
project construction contractors and be supervised by the affected villages. The other owners/different government
departments of the facilities will be responsible for their reconstruction.
Livelihood restoration. The proposed expressway alignment will pass primarily through rural areas. The rural
population densities are not high at average population with 4.1 mu of farm land after land acquisition. Resettlement
planning has included review of impacts on incomes which is based on village impact analysis. No village will be
affected by the land acquisition above 6% of total village farming land.
Livelihood restoration for farmers losing agricultural land will follow land and agricultural development based
strategy. All affected farmers will get cultivated land through the redistribution of the village collective land or land
reclamation. Process for land redistribution and development started from May 2002. Consultations were held with
the affected villages on livelihood development. Land compensation and resettlement subsidy funds will be used to
improve agricultural productivity through land reclamation and irrigation development, soil improvement, and other
activities. Also, a village-based development plan was undertaken in each affected village. As in more villages,
land redistribution will be undertaken in most of these areas so that all village members retain access to land, and
compensation payments will be used by the village to improve agricultural production. In case of the affected
villagers who are losing their land and others are not willing to redistribute their land to the affected people, further
consultations have resulted in village-specific strategies in livelihood development and village-specific
income-generating measures will be developed.
Institutional Arrangement
The Xinjiang Autonomous Region has established a project leading group chaired by the Vice Governor, and
including relevant prefectures and counties. Meanwhile, the project office has set up multi-level organizational
framework to plan and implement resettlement. This framework has resettlement offices at different levels of
governments, including project level, prefecture/city, county/banner and township. These offices have been staffed
with experienced experts and their responsibilities have been specified in detailed in the RAP. Other relevant
government agencies are also involved, including planning, finance, communications and land administration at
different levels. A detailed training program has been developed and contained in the RAP for capacity build-up in
the project offices.
- 97 -



Moreover, the project will streamnline the process of resettlement fund cash flow in order to avoid the fund deduction
which may incur during the disbursement of the fund, and will open a specific local bank account to each affected
village which will be supervised by the bank system. The project office will issue a specific regulation regarding the
resettlement fund approval and usage. The appointed bank will report resettlement fund usage item by item daily to
the project office for internal monitoring. The project office will also strengthen the capacity of township-level and
county-level and resettlement fund management.
Implementation Schedule
Resettlement will follow the following principles for the scheduling of its implementation
*   House demolition will be phased and civil works can't start before the relocating households move into their
new houses.
*   Demolition notice must be served at least three months before relocation and relocating households will be
given at least three months for new house construction.
*   Civil works can't start before compensation payment and land acquisition is completed
*   Redistribution of land will be carried out during the season-breaks
* Village-specific livelihood restoration measures will be developed the same time of land redistribution
* Reconstruction and rehabilitation of affected public facilities and infrastructure will be completed before civil
works start
Public Consultation And Grievance Redress
The RAP is prepared with active participation of the affected population. Local governments, village leaders and the
affected population participated in the census, inventory, the finalization of the alignment, the compensation rates,
the relocation and livelihood development schemes. In September 2000, the Expressway Office hired Huazhong
Design Institute as consultant agency to develop the guideline and survey framework, then the field survey started in
October 2000 and completed field work in December 2000. The Office held 29 workshops and about 400 people
attended the workshops. Project information and resettlement policies were disseminated among them before and
during the consultation process. The affected population were systematically consulted through the social
assessment and their feedback has been incorporated in the RAP. The final draft RAP has been placed in local
libraries and their availability was announced in local newspapers. The project office has prepared a Resettlement
Information Booklet to be distributed to all affected households after the project appraisal.
The project office has designed a grievance redress mechanism. Any grievances will be redressed through the
resettlement management at different levels. The RAP contains a detailed procedures and timeframe for grievance
redress. This mnechanism will be described in the Resettlement Information Booklet.
Resettlement Monitoring
To ensure the smooth and successful implementation of the RAP, the project office has designed both internal and
independent monitoring mechanism for RAP implementation. Internal monitoring will be conducted through the
resettlement offices at various levels of governmental agencies. It will mainly focus on physical progress of the RAP
implementation. Independent monitoring will be carried out by Xinjiang Academy Institute and Huazhong Design
Institute. Independent monitoring will be conducted every six months. Apart from physical progress, it will evaluate
livelihood restoration efforts and their effectiveness. The RAP describes in detail monitoring purpose,
responsibility, indicators, methodology, procedures and reporting requirements.
-98 -



Annex 16:SocIal Assessment and Ethnic Communities Action Plan
CHINA: Third Xlnjiang Highway Project
SUMMARY
The proposed Xinjiang III Highways project is situated within the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR) in
westernmost China. The population of Xinjiang is ethnically diverse, with widely varying patterns of ethnic
population distribution throughout the region. Uygur people constitute the largest ethnic population group in
Xinjiang, but the proportion of Han Chinese in the population has increased over the past several decades. The
population also includes Kazakhs, Mongols, Tajiks, Kyrgis, and Uzbeks.
The overall salience of ethnicity varies from time to time, and from place to place. From the beginning stages of
project identification, the project task team recognized the need for careful assessment of the nature and distribution
of project benefits and adverse impacts.
Based on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the Xinjiang Commnunications Department (XCD) conducted a
social assessment covering both major physical components of the project (National Highway 312 and the Local
Roads). Consultations indicated that members of minority nationalities expect to benefit from planned transportation
improvements. Not surprisingly, they also are concerned about potentially adverse impacts associated with the
project. In most cases, their concerns relate to resettlement issues or environmental management issues of concern to
Han Chinese residents as well. However, in some cases those consulted also raised issues of specific ethnic or
cultural concern.
Following completion of social assessment field exercises, the Bank task team and XCD agreed that circumstances
regarding minority nationalities warranted application of OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples). The PEO subsequently
prepared an Ethnic Communities Action Plan (ECAP) to fulfill OD 4.20 requirements. The ECAP responds directly
to issues raised by members of minority nationalities during the course of the social assessment. Actions in the ECAP
fall into three general categories. First, the ECAP demonstrates that the concerns raised regarding resettlement or
environmental impacts have been adequately handled in the separate Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) prepared for the project. Second, it demonstrates that the project design has taken
tor will take) into account issues raised regarding road safety and access. And third, the ECAP lists actions to be
taken by the PEO (or its agents) in regard to issues of specific ethnic or cultural concern.
HISTORICAL, CULTURAL AND LEGAL CONTEXT
Historical and Cultural Context
Ethnic Situation in China. Based on the 1995 census, roughly nine percent of the Chinese population belongs to the
55 officially designated minority nationalities. In general, the minority nationalities live in the dry, cold, or tropical
mountainous areas in the northern, southern and western border regions. The Han majority (the 56th officially
designated nationality in China) is predominant in the humid plains regions and in coastal China. However, there has
been extensive ethnic interningling as well as population dispersion. For example, people of Manchu and Mongol
ancestry are found throughout China.
Historically, geographic distribution tended to determine livelihood. While the Han generally engaged in intensive
agriculture, the livelihoods of minority nationalities were more diverse and strongly related to climate and
topography, ranging from pastoral nomadism to subtropical horticulture. Though such tendencies remain prevalent in
some areas, political and economic integration has brought profound changes. In some cases, official development
programs promote Han migration to historically remote areas. In many cases, members of minority nationalities have
sought and found opportunities in the modern economy. Muslim Hui people, for exanple, are disproportionately
represented among merchants in most major cities.
Linguistically, there are more than 70 languages spoken and more than 20 different scripts used in China. While
some minority nationalities, particularly those in remote areas still use their own languages more or less exclusively,
99 -



education and commerce has furthered bilingualism, and most younger members of minority nationalities are familiar
with standard Mandarin Chinese to some extent. Many of those relying on their own spoken language nonetheless
now share the Chinese system of writing, which conveys meaning wholly independent of pronunciation.
While economic integration and patterns of acculturation have eroded the salience of ethnic identity among some
minority nationalities, religious beliefs and cultural practices are closely associated with ethnic identity among the
Lamaist Buddhist Mongols and Tibetans and among many members of the Muslim peoples in western China as well.
This, of course, includes the project area in Xinjiang.
Xinjiang takeri as a whole is highly diverse, both in the number of minority nationalities represented in its population
and in the widely varying patterns of population dispersion. As the people for whom the autonomous region was
established, the Uygurs are the largest single population group, constituting 46% of the regional population.
According to the Xinjiang Statistical Yearbook (2000), other major groups (in terms of share of population) include
the Han (39.2%), Kazakhs (7.13%), and Hui (4.54%). Smaller numbers of Mongols, Kyrgis, Tajiks, Tatars,
Russians, Uzbeks, Dongxiang, and several other groups are also represented among the regional population. While.
Uygurs constitute the largest single population group, they no longer represent a numerical majority of the
population. Meanwhile, the proportion of Han Chinese within the population has risen in recent decades, especially
in larger cities and in government-promoted farms and enterprises.
In larger cities, members of minority nationalities generally have adopted to urban economic life whereas members
of the same minority nationalities may continue to rely on subsistence patterns in more remote areas. For the
predominantly Muslim minority nationalities (including Uygurs, Kazakhs, Hui, Kyrgis, Tajiks, and Uzbeks),
religious belief and practice continues to strongly influence daily life in both rural and urban areas. Generally
reflecting the greater opportunities available in urban areas (and in state-supported farms or enterprises), the Han (on
average) have higher incomes and higher levels of educational attainment than members of various minority
nationalities (on average). Patterns of economic and cultural differentiation within the project area are described in
the sections that follow.
Legal Context
Introduction. Stipulations regarding ethnic minorities (shaoshu minzu) in Chinese laws and regulations are
numerous. According to a classification issued by the State Ethnic Affairs Commission, there are some 412 legal
documents dealing with the subject ranging from comprehensive laws, such as the Constitution, to documents
dealing with specific subjects such as political affairs, economic development, culture and religion, science and
education, health marriage and family planning and personnel. The following treatment is therefore, by necessity,
cursory and lirmited to the overall governing framework in China.
The Constitution (1982). The preamble to the Constitution provides that the People's Republic of China is a unified
multi-ethnic nation founded by all the nationalities of China, and that relationships of equality, unity and mutuality
will be promoted. In the interests of national solidarity, the state undertakes to strongly promote common prosperity
of all ethnic groups. References to ethnic mninorities are frequent throughout the body of the Constitution generally
covering:
*      Equal rights of minorities, the prohibition of discrimination and activities that undermine ethnic solidarity
and encourage separatism.
*      The right of minorities to elect, to be elected and be represented in the National People's Congress and the
standing conumittee thereof; in addition the governor of an autonomous region, prefecture or county should be an
ethnic citizen from the group implementing local autonomy.
*      The right of ethnic autonomous localities to substantial legal and administrative autonomy, including the
right to adjust national laws and regulations as appropriate to the local situation, manage finance accruing to the
locality under the state financial system, administer the local undertakings of education, science, public health, public
- 100 -



security, and culture including the protection of cultural heritage.
The rights of minorities to utilize and develop their own oral and written languages as well as the freedom
to retain or reform their customs; at the same time the state undertakes to assist minorities in their economic and
cultural development, and promote their development as civil officials, professionals and skilled workers at all
levels.
Law on Regional Autonomy of the People's Republic of China (1984). This law is the basic law for implementing
the system of ethnic regional autonomy provided by the Constitution. It provides for autonomous regions, prefectures
and counties, the procedures for their formation, the status of the governing organ (as a level of the state political and
administrative system), the obligation of the governing organ to ensure that the Constitution and national laws are
observed, and within this overall framework the right of the organ to adopt special policies and flexible measures to
accelerate economic and cultural development.
The law defines the composition of the goveming organ (local govemment and congress), provides that the governor
should be an ethnic citizen from the group implementing local autonomy.and that as far as possible govermnent
officials and the local people's congress should be drawn from the group implementing ethnic autonomy and other
ethnic minorities. The law reiterates and elaborates the provisions of the Constitution concerning the rights of
minorities including: freedom of religion (with the proviso that religious organizations and religious affairs are "free
from control or domination by foreign forces"); the right to establish educational systems appropriate to the minority
area including teaching and the use of textbooks in local languages (while middle schools should also offer Mandarin
Chinese language courses); encouragement of ethnic cultural development (literature, art, news, publications,
broadcast, cinema) and observation of traditional customs, and the maintenance and protection of cultural heritage
(ethnic literature, scenic and historical sites etc.). The law also includes provisions aimed at developing harmonious
ethnic relations within autonomous localities including the requirement that such localities should assist local minor
ethnic groups to set up lower level autonomous localities (down to township level) and care for the needs of other
minorities living in diaspora.
The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region was officially established in October 1955. The functions and power of
autonomy are exercised mainly according to the Constitution and the-Law on Regional Autonomy (as described
above). Since its establishment, XUAR has developed a series of implementing regulations generally consistent with
the requirements and objectives of the national-level enabling legislation.
THE SOCIAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
OD 4.20 and Social Assessment Objectives
Bank project experience has shown that "indigenous peoples" sometimes are vulnerable to disadvantage in the
development process. This may reflect factors relating to the distinctive socioeconomic institutions or modes of
production upon which they rely, to lack of legal or formal recognition of ownership or use rights to resources upon
which they traditionally depend, to their limited participation in the broader society or political system, or to other
factors associated with their distinctive identity or culture. As a consequence, the Bank has adopted Operational
Directive 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples). The primary objectives of OD 4.20 are:
a)     to ensure that such groups are afforded meaningful opportunities to participate in planning that affects them;
b)     to ensure that opportunities to provide such groups with culturally appropriate benefits are considered; and
c)     to ensure that,any project impacts that adversely affect them are avoided or otherwise minimized and
mitigated.
Because social, cultural, and economic pattems and practices vary widely among and within borrower countries, OD
4.20 does not provide a single, highly specific definition of "indigenous peoples" that can be applied in all countries.
Instead, the policy recognizes that judgment is necessary in the project context. It provides five distinguishing
characteristics to be used in identifying ethnic groups ("minority nationalities" in the China context) that warrant
special attention in project planning. These five distinguishing characteristics are:
- 101 -



a)     close attachment to ancestral territories and resources;
b)     reliance on subsistence modes of production;
c)     self-identification or identification by others as distinctive groups;
d)     use of a language different than promninent or official languages within the country; and;
.e)     reliance on customary cultural and socioeconornic institutions.
Beginning early in the project identification process, the Bank task team and the borrower engaged in a series of
discussions relating to whether OD 4.20 would apply to the project. It should be noted that the Bank policy, though
already adopted, was not specifically applied in the two precursor Xinjiang highway projects. The task team
recognized, however, that the proposed project might have a stronger impact on minority nationality communities.
This is both because the highway component of the project would involve more remote areas than in previous
projects, and because the project would include a local roads component in which one objective is to extend
improved transportation to many areas with minority nationality communities.
At project conceptualization, it was agreed that project circumstances may warrant preparation of an Ethnic
Communities Action Plan (ECAP) to fulfill the objectives and requirements of OD 4.20. It also was agreed that a
social assessment would be undertaken, involving both major physical components of the project, as a mode of
consultations with potentially affected minority nationality communities. The social assessment also would provide
information necessary to determine whether an ECAP would be necessary and, if so, to identify opportunities to
enhance delivery of culturally appropriate benefits as well as potential remedies for any adverse community impacts.
(Separate plans, involving separate consultation exercises, also were to be undertaken to address land acquisition and
resettlement-related impacts and management of environmental impacts.)
Social Assessment Scope and Methods
The terms of reference for the social assessment included guidance regarding the scope of the exercise and methods
to be employed during the process. In terms of scope, the assessment team was instructed to focus attention on
minority nationality communities that would be most likely to be affected (beneficially or adversely) from both
project components. Major issues identified in the terms of reference for exploration included:
*      Impacts from the project on production and living style, culture and travel modes of the different affected
groups. While minority nationalities were identified as the basic unit of analysis, the research teams were instructed
to employ disaggregation strategies so that adequate information relating to views and preferences of women, the
poor, and various occupational groups could be obtained.
*      Opinions, requirements and modes of participation of the potentially affected people
*      Identification of potential adverse social impacts and proposals for avoiding or mitigating adverse impacts
in culturally appropriate ways.
The main component in the project is improvement to the existing roadway from the city of Kuitun to Sailimu Lake,
the last unimproved segment of the 1,430-kilometers of National Highway 312 in Xinjiang. The 302.5 kilometers of
road works in this Kui-Sai component includes an 18 kilometer expressway from Kuitun to Wusu; 229 kilometers of
Class I highway from Wusu to the Bole Fork; and rehabilitation of 55.6 kilometers of Class II roadway from Bole
Fork to Sailimu Lake. About 80% of the works will be situated along existing road alignments; new alignments are
proposed primarily as bypasses in urban areas such as Wusu and Jinghe.
For this component, the terms of reference indicate that research activities are to occur within a 10-kilometer "zone
of impact" (five kilometers on each side of the roadworks), allowing for broader review in the sparsely populated
western stretches commonly used by migrating pastoralists. The research plan, based on an initial field screening,
called for consultation exercises to be conducted in six sites along the Kui-Sai alignment.
The local roads component is intended to improve transportation linkages between rural areas and provincial or
national highways. A tentative list of 12 such local linkage roads (600 kilometers in all) located through Xinjiang has
- 102 -



been proposed for rehabilitation over four years. Of these, five links (involving 267 kilometers of roadwork in all)
have been proposed for the first year of implementation:
*      Bayituohai-Zhaosu Road (S220): 89 kilometers
*      Qitai-Santai Road (S303): 34 kilometers
*      Mulei-Sangezhuangzi-Qitai (S303): 55 kilometers
*      Aksu-Awati Road (S208): 59 kilometers
*      Baicheng-Yurgun Road (S307): 30 kilometers
Social assessment to date has covered local roads included for the first year of implementation; a separate social
assessment exercise will be undertaken when a final list of remaining local roads to be improved under the project
has been selected.
The social assessment research design for the local roads component was finalized following an initial screening
exercise, which among other things involved ranking proposed linkage roads on the basis of improved service to
poor communities and to minority nationality communities. As a result of the screening exercise, two proposed
linkage roads in higher-income areas were dropped from the project, in favor of two new linkage roads that would
better serve minority nationality communities in poorer areas.
The initial screening exercise also provided information used for tentative selection of particular sites for
consultation exercises. Criteria used for selection included locational factors, extent of potential impacts, ethnic
distribution of population, and income and living standards.
Methodologically, the social assessment process relied on Participatory Rapid Appraisal as the major research
method. Focus group interviews and semi-structured individual interviews were combined with supplementary
questionnaire surveys. In all such activities, care was taken to ensure that respondents could speak without
intimidation, and that the identities of respondents remained confidential. The terms of reference required selection
of consultants with requisite language skills, and all activities were conducted in the language in predominant use in
each location. In all, consultations involved more than 350 persons along the Kuitun-Sailimu Lake alignment and
more than 340 persons for the five local roads included in the first-year implementation program.
Social Assessment Findings
Based on social assessment results (along with direct field observations), the project task team concluded that all
five of the OD 4.20 distinguishing characteristics for identification of indigenous peoples are present in varying
degrees in areas to be affected by the project:
Distinctive language use. Among the most prominent minority nationalities, the Uygur, Mongol, and Kazakh people
have their own spoken and written language (as do the Han people). The Hui people typically communicate using the
Han spoken language and script. Patterns of bilingualism vary widely from group to group, and from location to
location. For highway purposes, regional regulations promote use of bilingual (Han Chinese and Uygur) signage.
Most people (this is likely to be especially true of licensed vehicle operators) can read at least one of these two
scripts.
Identification as culturally distinctive groups As already stated, the minority nationalities residing within the
project area are officially designated as such. In some cases, their status is further enhanced by designation of.
autonomous administration areas. Xinjiang itself is officially designated as a Uygur autonomous region. The project
area also affects the Yili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture and the Bortala Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture.
Official designation aside, members of minority nationalities clearly identify themselves and others as members of
distinctive cultural groups.
Reliance on subsistence modes of production. Economic activities also are highly variable. However, along the
- 103 -



western side of the Kuitun-Sailimu Lake road aligmnent and in some areas affected by local road improvements,
many minority nationality households (primarily Kazakh and Uygur) continue to rely on traditional pastoral
lifestyles. This involves significant reliance on their own production for subsistence, along with some degree of
localized trading.
Use of customary social and cultural institutions. The extent of acculturation and socioeconomic integration
varies widely. Especially in rural areas, however, local minority nationality communities continue to follow
customary or traditional practices. Many local communities have strong religious attachments (Uygur, Hui and
Kazakh people are predominantly Muslim; most Mongolians are Buddhist).
Close attachment to ancestral territory or natural resources. Xinjiang is characterized by diffuse patterns of
migration over time. Among many pastoralists, however, there are long-established traditional herd migration routes.
Those following traditional pastoral patterns are dependent on access between summer and winter pasture. They
also are dependent on sustainable management of ecological fragile pasture in many areas.
Following review of the social assessment report, the task team concluded that the minority nationality communities
to be affected by the project could be vulnerable to disadvantage (in some relatively minor ways) if their concerns
were not addressed. The task team and PEO agreed that preparation of an ECAP would be warranted. It also was
agreed that the ECAP would respond directly to the various issues raised by members of minority nationalities
during the social assessment consultations.
Social assessment report results show that a large majority of persons expect to benefit directly from improved
transport conditions. In general, communities in the project area expect the project to improve access to markets,
thereby spurring agricultural activity, and to improve access to basic services and such customary activities as
religious functions and family visitation. Accordingly, the report shows widespread support for the project itself.
Nonetheless, those consulted raised a number of issues relating to various aspects of project design and
implementation. These comments concerned both potential adverse impacts and opportunities to enhance project
benefits.
Because the social assessment process involved consultations with only a subset of the potentially affected
population, the ECAP is based on categorical responses to the recurring issues raised by the potentially affected
people, and includes categorical commitments on the part of the borrower. This is meant to ensure that appropriate
actions are taken under all circumstances in which they are warranted, rather than only in the specific locations
covered directly by the social assessment process. Many concerns voiced by people in minority-nationality
communities relate to resettlement or environmental issues of concern more broadly in all affected communities.
However, some general categories of concern appear to be of particular importance in minority nationality
communities. Categorically, the issues raised by members of minority nationalities during consultations were:
*      Protection of ecologically fragile pasture areas
*      Maintenance of access for migrating livestock
*      Roadway and traffic safety
*      Maintenance of access for pedestrians and non-motorized traffic
*      Cultural sensitivity during construction, especially in the vicinity of mosques
*      Culturally appropriate treatment in relocation of tombs
The ECAP describes design and implementation arrangements already taken, or to be taken, in response to such
concerns.
The Ethnic Communities Action Plan
The primary purpose of the ECAP, as an instrument to fulfill requirements of OD 4.20, is to ensure that adverse
community impacts are identified and remedied, and to seek opportunities to enhance delivery of culturally
appropriate benefits under the project. As stated above, the ECAP was prepared as a direct response to issues raised
by members of minority nationalities during the social assessment process. In general terms, the ECAP consists of
- 104 -



three kinds of responsive action.
While this plan demonstrates efforts taken by XCD to be responsive to concerns raised by members of minority
nationalities, it should be emphasized that relatively few of those concems relate to any particular minority
nationality, or to community-level impacts. In other words, in many cases, those consulted were concerned by issues
relating to resettlement compensation standards or environmental protection measures. Such impacts are not
group-specific and are of interest to all persons potentially affected by them. In many instances, then, this plan makes
reference to actions or measures contained in the separate Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or the separate
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) prepared for the project.
A second set of concerns raised by the potentially affected people relate to road safety and access issues. Generally,
these concerns are addressed through road design and through dissemination of safety-related information. The
ECAP reviews culturally appropriate measures already taken, or to be taken, to improve safety and access, and to
inform drivers, pedestrians and others about road conditions.
The third set of concerns relate to cultural sensitivity. These include appropriate steps taken during the construction
process so that religious facilities and activities are not disturbed, culturally appropriate relocation of tombs (also
addressed in the separate RAP), and providing bilingual signs and information.
Issues and Measures Relating to Resettlement or Environmental Protection
Loss of pasture land. As most of the civil works are situated on existing road alignments, land acquisition
(including acquisition of pasture area) is relatively modest in the project. Only a small amount (34 mu, or 2.25
hectares) of pasture land is to be taken, associated with a change of alignmnent in the Sitai area of the Kuitun-Sailimu
Lake Highway. In fact, local concern was raised because preliminary survey work indicated that a new alignment
would be used, taking more land and cutting through a pasture area. In part to avoid these impacts, the final design
utilizes the existing alignrment much more, greatly reducing the land to be taken and only marginally affecting the
pasture area. The RAP provides for compensation at replacement cost for lost pasture land, in this case calculated as
seven times the average annual output value of the land. Remaining pasture land in the area is sufficient to maintain
existing herd levels.
Relocation of tombs. There is no differential payment for minority nationality tombs. However, the RAP provides
for a payment of 500 RMB per tomb, 25% higher than the 400 RMB regional standard. Relocation of minority
tombs, moreover, will be done in consultation with famnily members, and with the cooperation of the county religious
affairs departmnent. XCD will also provide at least two months' advance notice before construction is to begin in the
immediate area, so that family members have sufficient time to arrange relocation details.
Protection of fragile pasture. Much of the pasture land in western areas of Xinjiang is ecologically fragile,
consisting of scattered clumps of vegetation on very poor soils. Members of minority nationalities who rely on
animal husbandry are concerned that construction activities may destroy pasture areas. Past construction-related
activities (including taking of borrow materials, and temporary diversions of roadway during construction) caused
damage that sometimes has not been remedied or compensated. The EAP provides measures for the protection of
pasture. Among its provisions:
*      Construction activities are to occur within existing rights-of-way; no detours or other highway diversions
will affect pasture areas during construction.
*      Where borrow materials are necessary, they will be obtained from designated quarries located in
vegetation-free areas.
*      Construction contracts include perfornance standards relating to the above conditions. Contractors
damaging pasture areas are required to provide prescribed remedial measures, and can be denied payment in the
event of poor performance. (The Xinjiang regional environment department is responsible for monitoring impacts on
pasture areas.)
- 105 -



Issues Relating to Highway Safety
In consultations, members of mninority nationalities expressed concem that improved road conditions and the
resulting higher vehicular speed may pose new or exacerbated dangers for smaller vehicles (tractors and animal
carts) and pedestrians - especially school children. Concern also was raised regarding traffic control in places where
people gather periodically, such as mosques and weekly markets. While some of the danger may be associated with
disruptions during construction, some is associated with the intended change in road conditions, and thereby is more
permanent in nature.
Routine project design includes physical measures in some areas to enhance highway safety. These measures, such as
construction of sideways or hardened shoulders to accommodate pedestrians and smaller vehicles, are already
planned for many of the specific areas of concem highlighted in consultations. Additionally, XCD will review
potential road conditions in particular areas of concern identified during consultations, and will issue construction
variation orders to provide sideways, zebra crosswalks, or other physical measures where substantial hazards exist
and where physical measures may be effective in reducing hazard.
In some areas of concern, the basic topographical conditions that contribute to road hazards cannot be eliminated
altogether. The Tekes Dawan segment of the S220 local road linkage, for example, is a sloped and curving alignment
traversing a relatively narrow gorge. All forms of traffic (motorized, non-motorized, livestock herds, pedestrians)
must share the road space. The project design will reduce the slope (from 11% to 6%), but the basic topographical
problem will persist. In such places, caution signs will be posted.
In response to concerns raised in the social assessment report, XCD will undertake an information campaign to
educate pedestrians and other road users about potential hazards. The safety information campaign will consist of the
following measures:
*      Posted lower speed limnits in the vicinity of high-density pedestrian areas such as schools, mosques and
markets, and posted caution signs for traditional livestock crossings and areas where other hazards exist.
*       A school visitation program in which local police will discuss highway safety with school children.
*       Distribution of highway safety pamphlets (in Han and Uygur) and promotion of slogans to be painted on
walls and other public surfaces.
Livestock Access
In many areas of the Kuitun-Sailimu Highway and in many areas serviced by the local roads component of the
project, minority nationality communities remain reliant on aniral husbandry, including traditional pastoral modes
of subsistence. This project does not involve construction of new roads, and does not include physical barriers
designed to restrict movement of livestock or access to pasture areas. Nonetheless, consultations with herders raised
concerns that improved road conditions and higher travel speeds may hamper the ability to move livestock in some
areas.
Livestock access is considered an environmental issue, and livestock access arrangements are covered in detail in the
separate environment assessment and environmental management plan prepared for the project. In general terms,
arrangements are as follows:
Under current conditions, the Kuitun-Sailimu roadway and the local roads included in the first-year implementation
program do not provide any physical measures intending to restrict livestock access; livestock in many areas use the
roadway itself, which in some areas is built on traditional herd migration routes. For this project, the project design
(primarily for the Kuitun-Sailimu highway alignment) included study for placement of eight herdway underpasses
and 40 culverts to be widened specifically for the purposes of facilitating livestock movement under changed road
conditions. These facilities are accessible where traditional herd migration routes intersect with the roadway.
- 106 -



Project design, then, encourages utilization of underpasses and culverts for livestock movement. In most areas,
adjacent rights-of-way will remain open so that livestock can be moved to underpasses or culverts without use of the
roadway itself. However, no physical barriers or regulatory changes will be made to impede use of the roadway;
herders will remain free to move livestock across or along the roadway when they believe it more convenient and
reasonably safe to do so.
Issues Relating to Cultural Sensitivity
Bilingual signage. Consultations showed a preference among members of minority nationalities for bilingual road
signs. By Xinjiang regional regulation, roadsigns will include both standard Chinese and Uygur script. Most
members (especially vehicle drivers) of other minority nationalities are famniliar with one of these scripts. While
some persons might prefer that highway signs also include Kazakh and/or Mongolian script as well, XCD maintains
that placement of multi-script road signs would serve relatively few and could cause difficulties for drivers seeking
information. In the Bortola Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture, the Yili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, and
perhaps in other areas with Kazakh or Mongol communities, sideway indicator signs (direction markings for
pedestrians or livestock herders, for example) will include the locally relevant script.
Construction near mosques. No mosques will be directly affected by demolition or loss of land under the project.
Muslim community leaders consulted during the social assessment process also voiced support for the project,
expecting that improvement to local roads will make religious activities more accessible or convenient. However,
they voiced concern that the construction period itself could be disruptive if appropriate practices aren't established.
The EAP includes measures intended to avoid disruption to schools and other public facilities. AdditionaUly,
contractors will be instructed to avoid construction activities within 500 meters of mosques on weekly prayer days
(Fridays). They also will be instructed to advise construction workers to avoid other behaviors (such as conspicuous
consumption of pork) that may be offensive in predominantly Muslim communities.
Implementation Arrangements
Financial Responsibility. Many of the activities or measures described above are contained in the separate RAP or
EAP prepared for the project. The institutional and budgeting arrangements for these activities or measures are
included therein. Regarding all other measures and activities included in this plan, XCD is directly responsible for
implementation or has obtained agreement with other agencies involved. XCD is responsible for provision of
funding required to implement the plan (including provision of funding where necessary to other agencies
responsible for some aspects of implementation, such as construction of sideways).
Monitoring Arrangements. Provisions for monitoring resettlement and environmental impacts are contained in the
separate RAP or EMP prepared for the project. TORs for extemal resettlement monitoring include minority
nationality language skills and require use of minority nationality languages where necessary for effective
conmmunication. Extemal resettlement monitoring reports will review issues of concem to minority nationality
communities. Regarding all other aspects of plan implementation, XCD will submnit for Bank review annual
implementation progress reports. These reports will include a review of actions taken in response to specific safety or
access issues raised during social assessment consultations.
Arrangements regarding future identification of local linkage roads. At present only five of an estimated 12
roads to be included in the local roads component have been prepared for the first-year implementation program.
While remaining areas have been tentatively identified, detailed preparatory works will be undertaken immediately
prior to implementation. Following final identification of roads to be included, a separate social assessment process
also will be undertaken. This process will follow the steps and methods as described above to ensure adequate
consultation with minority nationality communities. This plan will be updated or revised as necessary in response to
social assessment results. Submission of a revised plan acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of initiation of
civil works.
- 107 -



Annex 17: Road Maintenance Management Improvement
CHINA: Third Xinjiang Highway Project
1.    Road Network Classification and Condition: The situation of the road network and maintenance
management can be described as follows:
a)    Administration and management: XCD controls all highway undertaking in the Region. XCD reports
directly to the regional government and acts as its administrative arm for planning, budgeting and financing of
highway transport in the region. XCD administers the regional highways through XHAB, and municipal and
county transport bureau administer local roads and village roads. Apart from the high-grade highways, XHAB
is responsible for all highway matters, including construction and rnaintenance.
XHAB carries out routine maintenance, pavement rehabilitation works and heavy maintenance works through
its Highway Management Divisions at prefecture level and maintenance gangs at county levels. Five years
ago XHAB carried out all routine maintenance works through its highway maintenance divisions at prefecture
level and maintenance gangs at county levels. However, in recent years increasing portions of maintenance
operations have been contracted out, both for periodic naintenance as well as routine maintenance. Presently
almost 100% of periodic maintenance (medium and heavy) are carried out under contract, and more than 50%
of routine maintenance. The process of preparing contract packages for each year under the Maintenance
Rehabilitation Program (MRP) financed under the previous project, including engineering surveys, design and
procuremnent, as well as contract management under implementation of works, have given XHAB valuable
training in this type of road management. XHAB is gradually turned into an employer/client organization with
focus on contract management, including procurement and control of work.
b)    Roadfinancing: Funding for highway construction and maintenance comes from several sources, but the
largest source is the road maintenance fee (RMF), which provided RMB 1,425 rnillion in year 2001. The fee
is collected by XCD from motor vehicles throughout the Region. The next largest source is MOC subsidies,
which provided RMB 1000 million in year 2001. The maintenance flnding is expected to increase by 5% on
average during the ninth five year plan, to reach about RMB 600 million in total, or about RMB 15,000 per
kilometer of road. This would represent an important improvement in funding of maintenance; however, the
total length of paved roads is steadily increasing and so does the maintenance burden. The highway funding
sources and expenditures are summarized in the PAD Annex 4, Appendix D.
c)    Road Condition:  The table below summarizes the current road classification in Xinjiang:
Table 1: Xinjiang Road Network, 2000
Classification                  Total    Percentage
Unclas-     (km)       of total
By administration        I          l     IlIl   IV     sified
National                429      3870   3988    207      528       9022        26,1
Provincial               17       1218  3166    1689     848       6938        20,1
County                   0        206   3686    7486     539      11917        34,5
Township                 0         8     294    2492     143       2937         8,5
Other                    4        109   1497    1871     232       3713        10,8
Total                   450      5411   12631  13745    2290      34527        100,0
Percentage of total     1,3       15,7  36,6    39,8     6,6       100,0
Source: XHAB
The total length of roads maintained by XHAB increased from 16670 km in 1997 to 17950 km in 2000.
- 108 -



Paved road network increased from about 10000 km in 1994 to 12,500 km in year 2000. Also traffic has
increased by about 10 per cent per year over several years. Parts of the existing road network were initially
built to gravel standard and then later overlaid wiih a thin bituminous surface without adequate pavement
strengthening. The rehabilitation work carried out since 1997, including MRP, has helped to improve the
conditions on the paved road network. Also the training in road management and operations have had a
marked effect on the quality of maintenance operations. XHAB reports that the percentage of roads in good
and fair condition went up fiom 46% in 1997 to 65% in year 2000. However, despite the maintenance efforts
in recent years, more needs to be done to sustain the investments and the capabilities gained.
2.     XCD Strateav. The main shortcomings can be summarized as follows: (i) lack of a rational maintenance
policy, and (ii) in spite of gradual budget increases, funds are still short of the real needs. XCD's retrenchment policy
was to concentrate on a subset of the most trafficked network, but the optimnality of this policy is not underlaid by a
reliable assessment of needs or analysis of the imnpact of different budget levels on network condition, or
investigations of funding/treatment options and trade-offs. XCD's current strategy is:
(i)    more efficiency from budgeted resources, mostly through a better mix of labor and equiprnent (using in
particular the modem equipment provided under this and the previous projects). Also force account operations
(limited now to a fraction of routine maintenance and blackspot activities) will focus more on output and less on
input.
(ii)   strengthening road management, as explained below.
3.     Strengthening Road Maintenance Management: Use of the CPMS was introduced as a management
tool for road maintenance at the start of MPR. XHAB management has become familiar with the use of a modem,
computerized pavement management system and some of its application. During implementation of MPR the
concept of IRI as an indicator of level of serviceability on the paved road network was firmly established and well
understood. Surveys of traffic and road condition parameters; have been carried out regularly, except that roughness
measurements were not done from 1997 to 2000 due to equipment breakdown. These data have been fed into the
CPMS data base and the model has been used by XHAB to select roads for rehabilitation. However, there is a need
to review and enhance the model to be used also to evaluate altemative maintenance strategies and options for
rehabilitation and strengthening on a network basis, as well monitoring the resulting level of service.
The purposes of the Road Maintenance Management Improvement (RMMI) component under the project are (i)
XHAB capacity building through exposure to modem road management systems and practices and exchange of
experiences with other intemational highway agencies through workshop discussions and specially designed inland
training programs, (ii) strengthening the management of large road maintenance equipment assets, and (iii)
improving quality of the data required for road maintenance management.
CaRacitv building for road management would take the format of combining overseas study tour program with
advanced technology exchange workshops to be conducted in Xinjiang by foreign experts. The study tour program
would be provided mainly for senior management aimed at knowledge of the advanced technologies applied in the
area of road maintenance management. This would be followed by intensive workshops and technology exchange
programns through inviting experienced foreign trainers and consultants to Xinjiang, while emphasizing exchanges of
experience and information about other highway agencies' road management operations and systems.
Strengthening Management of Road Maintenance Equipment Assets is now considered as an important objective as
the asset value of O&M equipment procured under Bank projects would reach over $37 million, as shown in the
table below. The sub-component would include: 1) consulting services (6 person months) in the development of a
large road maintenance equipment management system; and 2) overseas training and study tour (6 person months for
senior management staff.
-109 -



Table 2. Road Maintenance Equipment Assets Procured under Bank Projects
Highway Project                       Amount of Procurement for Each Category            |
Road Maintenance    Laboratory Devices    Other Specialized  Total (US$)
and Operations     and Testing Equipment  Equipment
XHP 1          $ 8,213,678         $ 907,515             $850,698           $9,971,891
XHI 2          $12,706,423         $210,967                                 $12,917,390
IXH  3        1 $13,456,627        $835,783                                 $14,292,410
Total (US$)    $34,376,728         $1,954,265            $850,698           $37,181,691
Source: XCD.
Improving quality of the data required for road maintenance management would include purchasing two set of FWD
testers for collection of pavement structural strength information, which is needed in the determination of pavement
maintenance and rehabilitation program at both network and project levels.
3.     Estimated Innuts and Costs.
(9)    All tasks defined in the proposed RMMI program would be jointly implemented by XHAB and PEO.
While the XHAB would give emphasis to data collection and providing annual road maintenance and rehabilitation
program of Xinjiang regional road network through use of the updated CPMS, the PEO would concentrate on
training program and development of an adequate road equipment management system. Overall, the loan portion
would be up to US$ 0.572 million covering the equipment, overseas and inland training and part of the services
needed for executing the program.
(10)   The efforts required for implementation of road maintenance management would comprise 250 p-months
local input, and 4 p-months of foreign specialist input, and the corresponding costs would be about RMB 2.98
million (or US$0.36 nillion) local and US$ 0.125 million foreign services (including $45,000 for overseas study
tour program), respectively. In addition, two sets of FWD would be purchased at about US$0.3 million for XHAB
to use in collection of pavement structural strength data at network level. The estimated efforts for development of
an asset management system for road maintenance equipment would involve 23 p-months local input, and 6
p-months of foreign specialist input, and the corresponding costs would be about RMB 0.90 million (or US$0.108
million) local and US$0.127 million foreign services (including $27,000 for overseas study tour program). A
detailed breakdown of the RMMI costs is presented below.
- 110 -



Table 3. Estimated Costs for RMMI Implementation
SERVICES             COSTS         OTHER            TOTAL
Local     Foreign  Local     Foreign   US$ (k)    RMB(k)    US$ (k)
p-months p-months RMB (k)     US$ (k)
Road Management             250       4       2,980      125                 2,980      125
-Overseas training        5 (10p)              50        45                   50        45
-Inland foreign training  10 (20p)  4 (4)      120       80                  120        80
-Network data collection   230                2,750                         2,750
-Annual maintenance plans    5                  60                            60
Equipment Management         23        6        90       127                  90        127
-Overseas training         3 (6p)              30        27                   30        27
-Technical assistance     10 (5p)    4 (4)     30        60                   30        60
-Asset Management system   10 (5p)   2 (2)      30        40        20        40        60
Equipment                                                    .     300                  300
- Purchase of FWD                                                  300                 300
Total                       273       10      3,070      252       320       3,070      572






IBRD 31860
70'           \   0B             90'             10I 0io                           120-            130'
50'                                                                                              - -
RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                    /7
50'
KAZAKHSTAN
7UZBEKISTAN                               1HARB
; 4-, z.\   -/9=s  1        z             ~~~M O N G O L I A               t                  .
C      -                   l                                                            /dt                t   .',   .
KYRGYZ    7    ,r IBR31861                                                                            J I L I N
REPUBLIC                                                                                                     J
4%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
) -  IA  Gf'DEM    Ja:
|. ~~~~~~5_i ~~~~~X I N )I A N G                                        Ht->/t eroHH
) '4'v)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.0
wtddiook  oho -                                                              )AtYon` 
-olon d.o-oo -d cQINGHAIO
he poofh. Wodid look  -        '  <j _ONING                  \   (                                -/i |gdd o       -/8
Si:hl 0) od9nto ^h,&O o,B                                                                    ND r<                 IT AXy  |*
II  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS                            NGZ HbVbPNS 
(~ 7_ AV . .9? | 5rNXI- ) HENAN\                                G$IJ
X I Z A N G                                                                                   30\ j  ",  t   ,{  A^mn
*_ LHASA</) Q C~~~~~~~~~~~~~' \ 51 C H U A N ~~~~~~~~~~~,,HEFEI              E  a  s t 
30'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S         C    AN                    BE         HANGW S eOc
CHINA                          1   \                                   GXI
THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                                    . NG                      f FUJIAN
MAJOR HIGHWAYS.         o  SELECTED TOWNS              KN "-|
.WORLD BANK PROJECT   S       PROVINCE CAPITALS   YIJNNAN      L- G U     CXI A GI U  C ONG    othul
COMPLETED                 NATIONAL CAPITAL     K *                        )  O  *   "  Tni
-     UNDER CONSTRUCTION      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES       /"Y'  "              5  LoOn'
PLANNED BEFORE 2003  ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  ;  .   ,                                                    20-
PLANNED AFTER 2003                                        IETNAM
-   *\_        <     \<V{h. .....       100  200  300  AOO  500 MILES
'   i  LAO PEOPLE'S                        6 * HAIKOS  0  200  400  600  800 KILOMETERS
~7 DEM. REP.                                                  2002
THAILAND       _,           i HAINAN                     P HIL I PRI NE S
lD0'  \  \_  r  \  x  \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<0-  121 ~~~~~APRIL 2002






IBRD 31783
68-                    72'                       76'                    800                    84-    N..   RUSSIAN FED        - .-*                              96
-48 '                                                                                                                               \   '-                                                   48'
CHINA                                                                                     r
THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                            / Hrbohe
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
PROPOSED PROJECT KSH (KUITUN SAILIMU HIGHWAY)                                       Jo                                             MONGOLIA
COMPLETED PROJECTS (TURFAN-DAHUANGSHAN AND URUMQI-KUITUN HIGHWAYS)         _
NATIONAL ROADS                                                   J    Emin   H.b.ks.,o                             h.
PROANCE ROADS                              KAZAKHSTAN             oJ
-t--4-i- RAILROADS                                   KAZAKHSTAN            Yg                           \              gn8
-A44                                 AIRPORTS                                                        T AC                       I                                                              440
(i)    PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                 AlwI|
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- -|     - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                         ilFulk2g
KILOMETERS                    REPUBLIC                      '                    /                        _t                TURPAN         \                 9 n
=b Y 40'
68 ,'  - N  Ao 
- -                               K-ILL -RGIZCu iu                            SU<%                                                                                   A
7Z   .   ShbJinshi         /                                      /                                )                               S~~~~~~~Zh.or
<   :           ~~~~~RuSSIAN~ FEDERATION  '}      V \ engiourki                                                                                                      z 
The bsoundonies, colorsJ  I )   I  I  I             Kn
denominations cod andony       1               a                1              tr                                                  I
other  nti lrotaion showen 
on this mop do not imply, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    Wsh                   Xn                                                                                        o anho
on the poart of The Worldi  ..,,I ."
8nk Ciroup, any d 
on the legal status of ony  io  41                                                                                                                   /
territory, corny end1orsement ) rRt _io  SoothtG 
boundories.         THAIUvNes          Ore7b                                    80-                          84                            88       |                              GANSU
I             \l                                                                                 MONGFL l              U                                       FERUARY 200






IERD 31i861
\\  82  1 X (   /  t   '           C HI N A                                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION  4
\    >  > ,              THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                K     '\ '        (>~        ,
-- I,           <KUITUN-SAILIMU LAKE HIGHWAY                                                        N -j
FOUR LANE EXPRESSWAY        AzRR<oNO,          M ONo  L  A
KAZAKH STANFORAEISIA                                                                                         '
_ \ > 's F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUR LANE CLASS I ROAD- Aomp rC ,
----TWO LANE CLASS II ROAD                                              ofis
INTERCHANGES                         A _  .          7          i,,  O, OA
OTHER ROADS                                                   A -,  o I'' '  A
*               -.---*---*- ~~~~~~RAILROADS       8A -'~>
RIVERS 
- INTEERMITTENT RIVERSA
2-   , Z        E   \,        --$ '      A                      *--INTERNATIONAL3BOUNDARIES                A RIZOAN  %         "'r   - SlCHU4tl  < NNR N D
*-*--*-'~~~~~~~.     5    iS  20   30   45~~~~~~~~1  35          ,.OI .-OopdAOObh,AAA 
2.                                    / J  t   )   \*  !'   2   '\  j   KILOMiETERS                So Mop 500,0" Unf Th  T'  -;  PANANK  <  5 b--
A ip; 4<  S   .  ,;                  +           Xri:iCig AAA
1,I5A                               495 34                                                                      P                       N
- - - - - - - 0                     GH                                 1,360 /   64 0A
I'~~  k340  'o      IRSO2A2UU~~k
/T  OURTU BRIDGE  0            (~~~~~~~~wu  [TUN
RAIH  OLSTATION                                 "              UU    SU
YANZI INTERCHANGE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~   URA ECINOFCAS OD     ""          SSITRCAGS          0'~oo
SEVERA  URBANSRCTINS OF LASS IROAD                        UITUN IVERSBIDGEN
k4TSo4ST to 455,R95  \  :'  URR~~~FlANk3SECTIOND OF3CLASS1 I ROAD  15,4
k3UT-o2TT to 357o'HUUWEST KUITUN INTERCHANGE
SII(ESHU BRIDGE  ~k254,998
~~44  1-;,  .!'2  -S-  <A  .,0>o      ~~   ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~,'  ,  ---  ,  , '- \ - 9 "04
o8tY'lNINf^ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~  /\\  !             /82   /     /       83A)8                                     _,.                                M850
ING                                          8~~~((B' /  3'r             /   ,                  4'  -                 ".85'
MAY 2T02






i
i
i
i



IMAGINcj
Report No.:        24645   CHA
Type:     PAD



