Third Xinjiang Provincial Highways Project: IP           P     1   5
Ethnic Communities Action Plan
by
Xinjiang Communications Department
Introduction
1. The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Communications Department .(XCD) is
preparing a highway'imp.rovement project, and is seeking World Bank financial support.
The proposed Third Xinjiang Highway Project includes improvement of more than 300
kilometers of existing national highway (the highway component) and improvement of
more than 600 kilometers in a set of existing local roads (the local road component).
2. Xinjiang is officially designated as a Uygur autonomous region and Uygurs constitute
the largest single ethnic group in the population. Nonetheless, Xinjiang is ethnically
diverse, with significant proportions of Han, Kazakh, Hui, and Mongolian people, as well
as smaller numbers from many of the officially designated 56 nationalities in China. In
some areas of the project., one or two nationality groups represent large majorities of the
local population. In other areas, the local population is more diverse. Similarly, the extent
to which members of minority nationalities maintain distinctive or traditional patterns of
life varies from place to place, and from group to group.
3. Through a social assessment process, it has been determined that many of the people
potentially affected by the project exhibit distinctive characteristics warranting coverage
under World Bank Operational Directive 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples). As a prerequisite to
World Bank appraisal, the XCD must undertake special planning measures to protect the
interests of ethnic groups deemed covered under OD 4.20. The primary objectives of OD
4.20 are:
a) to ensure that such groups are afforded meaningful opportunities to participate in
planning that affects them;
b) to ensure that opportunities to provide such groups with culturally appropriate
benefits are considered; and
c) to ensure that any project impacts that adversely affect them are avoided or
otherwise minimized and mitigated.
4. This document describes actions already taken, or yet to be taken, by XCD (or other
agencies supporting the project)  to ensure that project arrangements meet the
requirements of OD 4.20. The actions described respond specifically to issues raised
during consultations with potentially affected people as part of the social assessment
process. While this plan demonstrates efforts taken by XPD to be responsive to concerns
raised by members of minority nationalities, it should be emphasized that very few of
those concerns relate directly to any particular minority nationality. In other words, in
most cases, those consulted are concerned by issues relating to resettlement standards,
FILE COPY


﻿environmental protection, road safety, and road access. Such impacts are not group-
specific and are of interest to all persons potentially affected by them. In many instances,
then, this plan makes reference to actions or measures contained in the separate
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or the separate Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
prepared for the project.
5. Taken as a whole, the plan demonstrates that potentially affected members of minority
nationalities have been consulted regarding their views and preferences, that the project
as designed would provide culturally appropriate benefits much desired within the project
area, and that sufficient measures have been taken (or would be taken) to mitigate
unavoidable adverse impacts.
Project Description
6. The primary objective of the project is to improve regional transportation flows. The
highway component is intended to relieve congestion and improve highway and travel
standards along a segment of highway providing important national and international
linkages. The local roads component is intended to improve accessibility to poor rural
areas, both to stimulate local economic activity and to ensure basic mobility needs of the
poor.
7. The main component in the project is improvement to the existing roadway from the
city of Kuitun to Sailimu Lake, the last unimproved segment of the 1,430-kilometers of
National Highway 312 in Xinjiang. The 302.5 kilometers of road works includes an 18
kilometer expressway from Kuitun to Wusu; 229 kilometers of Class I highway from
Wusu to the Bole Fork; and rehabilitation of 55.6 kilometers of Class II roadway from
Bole Fork to Sailimu Lake. About 80% of the works will be situated along existing road
alignments; new alignments are proposed primarily as bypasses in urban areas such as
Wusu and Jinghe.
8. The local roads component provides improved transportation conditions between rural
villages and townships to provincial or national highways. The local roads to be
rehabilitation are scattered throughout Xinjiang. A tentative list of 12 such local linkage
roads (600 kilometers in all) has been proposed for rehabilitation over four years. Of
these five links (involving 267 kilometers of roadwork in all) have been proposed for the
first year of implementation.
9. Roadworks included in the first-year implementation plan (including length of
roadway targeted for improvement) for the local road component are:
* Bayituohai-Zhaosu Road (S220): 89 kilometers
* Qitai-Santai Road (S303): 34 kilometers
* Mulei-Sangezhuangzi-Qitai (S303): 55 kilometers
* Aksu-Awati Road (S208): 59 kilometers
* Baicheng-Yurgun Road (S307): 30 kilometers


﻿10. Consultation exercises (conducted through environmental assessment, resettlement
planning, and social assessment processes) have been undertaken for the main highway
component and local road linkages included in the first year implementation program.
Additional assessment activities will be undertaken for remaining local road linkages
following final selection.
Description of the Local Population
11. World Bank OD 4.20 provides five distinguishing characteristics to be used in
identifying minority nationality communities that may warrant special attention in project
planning. These five distinguishing characteristics are:
a) close attachment to ancestral territories and resources;
b) reliance on subsistence modes of production;
c) self-identification or identification by others as distinctive groups;
d) use of a language different than prominent or official languages within the
country; and;
e) reliance on customary cultural and socioeconomic institutions.
Based on social assessment results and direct field observations, the World Bank project
task team has concluded that all five of these distinguishing characteristics are present in
varying degrees in areas to be affected by the project. This section describes the
population in the project area first in ethnic demographic terms, and then reviews
conditions in the project area with reference to the five distinguishing characteristics
listed in OD 4.20.
12. Xinjiang taken as a whole is highly diverse, both in the number of minority
nationalities represented in its population and in the widely varying patterns of population
dispersion. As the people for whom the autonomous region was established, the Uygurs
are the largest single population group, constituting 46% of the regional population.
According to the Xinjiang Statistical Yearbook (2000), other major groups (in terms of
share of population) include the Han (39.2%), Kazakhs (7.13%), and Hui (4.54%).
Smaller numbers of Mongolians, Kyrgis, Tajiks, Tatars, Russians, Uzbeks, Dongxiang,
and several other groups are also represented among the regional population.
13. All of the proportionally significant minority nationalities also are present in the area
to be affected by the 302.5-kilometer Kuitun-Sailimu Lake highway improvement
component. According to Xinjiang Statistical Yearbook (2000) data cited in the social
assessment report prepared for the project, Han people are statistically predominant along
the overall alignment, largely because of high concentrations in urban areas. Moving
westward from Wusu, however, the population density gradually diminishes and, in many
areas, diversifies.  Part of the alignment traverses the Yili Kazakh Autonomous
Prefecture, in which Kazakhs constitute only 26% of the population. At the western end,
the alignment traverses the Bortala Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture, in which
Mongolians account for only 6% of the population.


﻿14. The selection criteria used to develop the tentative list of linking roads for the local
roads component included both income data and ethnic composition of the population to
be served. Among the five linking roads included in the first year implementation
program, the largest population groups are estimated as follows:
*Bayituohai-Zhaosu Road (S220): Uygur (56.7)%, (Han (18.4%), Kazakh
(11.5%), other (13.4%)
*Qitai-Santai Road (S303): Han (78.5%), Kazakh (7.1%), Hui (6.5%), other
(7.9%)
*Mulei-Sangezhuangzi-Qitai (S303): Han (84.2%), Kazakh (8.9%), Uygur
(5.9%), other (1%)
* Aksu-Awati Road (S208): Uygur (90.3%), Han (9.7%), other (very few)
kilometers
*Baicheng-Yurgun Road (S307): Uygur (86.3%), Han (13.5%), other (0.2%)
Presence of distinguishing characteristics (as listed in OD 4.20):
15. Distinctive language use: Among the most prominent minority nationalities, the
Uygur, Mongolian, and Kazakh people have their own spoken and written language (as
do the Han people). The Hui people typically communicate using the Han spoken
language and script. Patterns of bilingualism vary widely from group to group, and from
location to location. For highway purposes, regional regulations require the use of
bilingual (Han Chinese and Uygur) signage. Most people (this is likely to be especially
true of licensed vehicle operators) can read at least one of these two scripts.
16. Identification as culturally distinctive groups: As already stated, the minority
nationalities residing within the project area are officially designated as such. In some
cases, their status is further enhanced by designation of autonomous administration areas.
Xinjiang itself is officially designated as a Uygur autonomous region. The project area
also affects the Yili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture and the Bortala Mongolian
Autonomous Prefecture. Official designation aside, members of minority nationalities
clearly identify themselves and others as members of distinctive cultural groups.
17. Reliance on subsistence modes of production: Economic activities also are highly
variable. However, along the western side of the Kuitun-Sailimu Lake road alignment
and in some areas affected by local road improvements, many minority nationality
households (primarily Kazakh and Uygur) continue to rely on traditional pastoral
lifestyles. This involves significant reliance on their own production for subsistence,
along with some degree of localized trading.
18. Use of customary social and cultural institutions: The extent of acculturation and
socioeconomic integration varies widely. Especially in rural areas, however, local
minority nationality communities continue to follow customary or traditional practices.
Many local communities have strong religious attachments (Uygur, Hui and Kazakh
people are predominantly Muslim; most Mongolians are Buddhist).


﻿19. Close attachment to ancestral territory or natural resources: Xinjiang is
characterized by diffuse patterns of migration over time. Among many pastoralists,
however, there are long-established traditional herd migration routes. Those following
traditional pastoral patterns are dependent on access between summer and winter pasture.
They also are dependent on sustainable management of ecological fragile pasture in many
areas.
Consultations and Participation
20. Project design and preparation has included widespread consultation with potentially
affected persons, including those belonging to minority nationalities. As stated
previously, preparation of a separate RAP and EAP for the project required extensive
consultation processes. Additionally, a social assessment process was undertaken
specifically to ensure that minority nationalities were adequately consulted regarding
their concerns and preferences.
21. The social assessment followed a process specified in terms of reference agreed
between XCD and the Bank. The work was undertaken by a team of local social
scientists with appropriate methodological and language skills. The fieldwork and social
assessment report were reviewed by Bank consultants, who have found the social
assessment to be of acceptable general quality.
22. Major activities included in the process were: initial screening of the K.uitun-Sailimu
alignment and the five local roads proposed for the first-year implementation program;
identification of major stakeholder groups; identification of specific areas for in-depth
assessment; conducting consultation activities (using Participatory Rapid Appraisal
methods, focus group discussions, and questionnaire surveys); drafting a report analyzing
results and offering suggestions for project improvement. In all, consultations involved
more than 350 persons along the Kuitun-Sailimu Lake alignment and more than 340
persons for the five local roads included in the first-year implementation program.
23. Social assessment report results show that a large majority of persons expect to
benefit directly from improved transport conditions. In general, communities in the
project area expect the project to improve access to markets, thereby spurring agricultural
activity, and to improve access to basic services and such customary activities as
religious functions and family visitation. Accordingly, the report shows widespread
support for the project itself.
24. Nonetheless, some areas of concern arose during the consultation process, as well as
some suggestions for project improvement. Many concerns voiced by people in minority
nationality communities relate to resettlement or environmental issues of concern more
broadly in all affected communities. However, some general categories of concern appear
to be of particular importance in minority nationality communities. These include:
roadway and traffic safety, maintenance of access for pedestrians and non-motorized
traffic, protection of ecologically fragile pasture areas, and careful management of the


﻿construction process in areas of cultural sensitivity. Design and implementation
arrangements already taken, or to be taken, in response to such concerns are described
below.
25. A project providing improvement to existing roadways by its nature offers relatively
few opportunities for direct participation of affected communities. In addition to
consultations, local people have participated in confirming resettlement census-survey
results, and will have opportunities to participate in evaluation of project implementation
through monitoring arrangements.
Legal Framework
26. China has established a complete legal framework for the protection and
development of officially designated minority nationalities. This legal framework
consists of:
* The Constitution of the People's Republic of China
* Law on Autonomy in Minority Nationality Regions
* Administration Regulation in Minority Nationality Townships
* Law on Villager Committee Organization
27. The Constitution of the People's Republic of China, as adopted in 1982, provides
that "all minorities in the People's Republic of China are equal. The State guarantees the
quality, unity and helping relations of all minority nationalities. The State forbids
discrimination and oppression against any minority nationalities. The Stale forbids any
activities against the unity of all nationalities and of racial separation."
28. The Constitution also states that the State supports all minority nationalities in their
economic and cultural development according to their needs and characteristics. Areas of
minority nationality concentration will practice autonomous administration with the
establishment of their autonomous administration bodies and the right of autonomous
administration. All autonomous minority nationality areas are an inseparable part of the
People's Republic of China.
29. All minority nationalities have the freedom to use and develop their own oral and
written language, maintain or reform their traditions and customs. The Constitution also
provides clear stipulations for the establishment of the regional autonomous
governments.
30. The Law on Autonomy in Minority Nationality Regions, adopted by the second
session of the Sixth National People's Congress in 1984, provides for the establishment
of minority nationality autonomous areas. This law stipulates that, apart from the same
responsibilities accorded to the same level of local governments, the authorities of the
autonomous areas have the following responsibilities for autonomous administration:
* autonomous legislative powers


﻿* autonomy in management of local political affairs
* autonomy in management of local economic development
* autonomy in management of local financial affairs
* autonomy in management of local affairs in science, education and culture
* autonomy in organizing local public security forces
* autonomy in using and developing minority nationality languages
* autonomy in training and employing minority nationality cadres
31. This law stipulates that the chairman of the people's government of an autonomous
region, prefecture, or county must by law be a member of the nationality or one of the
nationalities for whom the autonomous area is established. Other leadership and
administrative posts should be filled by members of that nationality or other minority
nationalities living in the area to the greatest extent possible. The law also gives
autonomous area governments a wide range of economic rights and responsibilities.
32. The law also provides a guarantee of religious freedom and of freedom not to
believe. The law also stipulates that "the autonomous administration should support other
minority nationality groups living in the autonomous region to establish their local
autonomous administration or minority nationality townships. The autonomous
administration should support all minority nationalities in the autonomous regions in their
economic, education, cultural and health development."
33. The Administration Regulation in Minority Nationality Townships, issued in 1993,
stipulates that autonomous township administration should be set up in areas where
minority nationality population live in concentration, and that the township autonomous
administration, in consideration of local needs and minority nationality characteristics,
govern according relevant laws and regulations.
34. Law on Village Committee Organization also used stipulations regarding the
organization of villager committees in minority nationality villages.
35. Xinjiang regional regulations relating to land acquisition and resettlement
arrangements are reviewed in the separate RAP prepared for the project.
Issues and Measures Relating to Land Acquisition or Loss of Assets
36. In consultations with members of various minority nationalities, issues relating to
loss of land or other assets, including compensation to be paid for lost assets, often arise.
The extent of such impacts and corresponding mitigation measures are provided in the
separate RAP. As they are general issues of relevance to all affected persons regardless of
ethnicity, these arrangements will not be described here. However, two resettlement-
related issues have been identified as of particular sensitivity to minority nationalities,
and hence arrangements provided in the RAP are recounted here.
37. Loss of pasture land: As most of the civil works are situated on existiig road
alignments, land acquisition (including acquisition of pasture area) is relatively modest in


﻿the project. Only a very small amount of pasture area (34 mu, or 2.25 hectares) is to be
acquired in the project, which is associated with a minor change of alignment along an
existing road in the Sitai area of the Kuitun-Sailimu Lake Highway. This alignment, in
fact, was chosen in part after it was determined that an earlier proposed alignment would
have required more land, and would have been more damaging because it would require
construction through a presently undisturbed pasture area. The amount to be acquired
would be generally insignificant in terms of impact on productivity or carrying capacity
in the immediate area. The RAP requires payment of compensation at replacement cost
for lost pasture land, in this case calculated as seven times the average annual output
value of the land.
38. Relocation of tombs: The RAP provides for a payment of 500 RMB per tomb to
cover costs of relocation (in contrast to a regional standard of about 400 RMB). There is
no differential payment for minority nationality tombs. Relocation of minority tombs,
however, will be done in consultation with family members, and with the cooperation of
the county religious affairs department. XCD will also provide at least two months'
advance notice to the county religious affairs department as well as county and township
governments before construction is to begin in the immediate area, so that family
members will have sufficient time to arrange relocation details.
Issues and Measures R,elating to Environmental Protection
39. Consultations with members of minority nationalities raised concerns relating to
many issues of relevance to all affected persons regardless of ethnicity. Measures relating
to these issues are contained in a separate EAP, and will not be reviewed here. However,
two issues are of particular importance or sensitivity to minority nationality communities.
40. Protection offagile pasture: Much of the pasture land in western areas of Xinjiang
is ecologically fragile, consisting of scattered clumps of vegetation on very poor soils.
Members of minority nationalities who rely on animal husbandry are concerned that
construction activities may destroy pasture areas. Past construction-related activities
(including taking of borrow materials, and temporary diversions of roadway during
construction) caused damage that sometimes has not been remedied or compensated. The
EAP provides measures for the protection of pasture. Among its provisions:
* Construction activities are to occur within existing rights-of-way; no detours or
other highway diversions will affect pasture areas during construction.
*  Where borrow materials are necessary, they will be obtained from designated
quarries located in vegetation-free areas.
*  Construction contracts include performance standards relating to the above
conditions. Contractors damaging pasture areas are required to provide prescribed
remedial measures, and can be denied payment in the event of poor performance.
(The Xinjiang regional environment department has responsibility for monitoring
impacts on pasture areas.)


﻿41. Construction near mosques: In areas where mosques are located near the roadway,
local residents voiced concern that the construction process would disrupt religious
activities. To prevent such occurrences, XCD will instruct contractors that
construction activities are hot to be undertaken within 500 meters of any mosque on
Fridays (the primary day of worship).
Issues Relating to Highway Safety
42. In consultations, members of minority nationalities expressed concern that improved
road conditions and the resulting higher vehicular speed may pose new or exacerbated
dangers for smaller vehicles (tractors and animal carts) and pedestrians - especially
school children. Concern also was raised regarding traffic control in places where people
gather periodically, such as mosques and weekly markets. While some of the danger may
be associated with disruptions during construction, some is associated with the intended
change in road conditions, and thereby is more permanent in nature.
43. Routine project design includes physical measures in some areas to enhance highway
safety. These measures, such as construction of sideways or hardened shoulders to
accommodate pedestrians and smaller vehicles, are already planned for many of the
specific areas of concern highlighted in consultations. Additionally, XCD will review
potential road conditions in particular areas of concern identified during consultations,
and will issue construction variation orders to provide sideways, zebra crosswalks,
roadside barriers, or other physical measures where substantial hazards exist and where
physical measures may be effective in reducing hazard.
44. In some areas of concern, the basic topographical conditions that contribute to road
hazards cannot be eliminated altogether. The Tekes Dawan segment of the S220 local
road linkage, for example, is a sloped and curving alignment traversing a relatively
narrow gorge. All forms of traffic (motorized, non-motorized, livestock herds,
pedestrians) must share the road space. The project design will reduce the slope (from
11% to 6%), but the basic topographical problem will persist. In such places, caution
signs will be posted.
45. In response to concerns raised in the social assessment report, XCD will undertake
an information campaign to educate pedestrians and other road users about potential
hazards. The safety information campaign will consist of the following measures:
*  Posted lower speed limits in the vicinity of high-density pedestrian areas such as
schools, mosques and markets, and posted caution signs for traditional livestock
crossings.
*  A school visitation program in which local police will discuss highway safety
with school children.


﻿* Distribution of highway safety pamphlets (in Han and Uygur) and promotion of
slogans to be painted on walls and other public surfaces.
Livestock Access
46. In many areas of the Kuitun-Sailimu Highway and in many areas serviced by the
local roads component of the project, minority nationality communities remain reliant on
animal husbandry, including traditional pastoral modes of subsistence. This project does
not involve construction of new roads, and does not include physical barriers designed to
restrict movement of livestock or access to pasture areas. Nonetheless, consultations with
herders raised concerns that improved road conditions and higher travel speeds may
hamper the ability to move livestock in some areas.
47. Livestock access is considered an environmental issue, and livestock access
arrangements are covered in detail in the separate environment assessment and
environmental management plan prepared for the project. In general terms, arrangements
are as follows:
48. Under current conditions, the Kuitun-Sailimu roadway and the local roads included
in the first-year implementation program do not provide any physical measures relating to
livestock access; livestock in many areas use the roadway itself, which in some areas is
built on traditional herd migration routes. For this project, the project design (primarily
for the Kuitun-Sailimu highway alignment) included study for placement of eight
herdway underpasses and 40 culverts to be widened specifically for the purposes of
facilitating livestock movement under changed road conditions. These facilities are
accessible where traditional herd migration routes intersect with the roadway. To re-
confirm the appropriateness of design, XCD will review locations of herding pathways
and culverts with county animal husbandry bureaus and pasture farms in the project area.
(Additionally, XCD will consult with the animal husbandry bureaus and pasture farms to
ensure that construction schedules are arranged to facilitate seasonal livestock migration.)
49. Project design, then, encourages utilization of underpasses and culverts for livestock
movement. In most areas, adjacent rights-of-way will remain open so that livestock can
be moved to underpasses or culverts without use of the roadway itself. However, no
physical barriers or regulatory changes will be made to impede use of the roadway;
herders will remain free to move livestock across or along the roadway when they believe
it more convenient and reasonably safe to do so.
Miscellaneous Issues
50. Local employment:  In social assessment consultations for the local roads
components, many persons expressed hopes that the construction process would generate
employment opportunities for local residents. XCD and contractors are bound by
regulations requiring sufficiently skilled personnel to promote appropriate quality
standards. Nonetheless, local construction is likely to create temporary opportunities for
unskilled labor.


﻿51. Bilingual signage: Consultations showed a preference among members of minority
nationalities for bilingual road signs. By Xinjiang regional regulation, roadsigns will
include both standard Chinese and Uygur script. Most members (especially vehicle
drivers) of other minority nationalities are familiar with one of these scripts. While some
persons might prefer that highway signs also include Kazakh and/or Mongolian script as
well, XCD maintains that placement of multi-script road signs would serve relatively few
and could cause difficulties for drivers seeking information. In the Bortola Mongolian
Autonomous Prefecture, the Yili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, and perhaps in other
areas with Kazakh or Mongolian communities, sideway indicator signs (direction
markings for pedestrians or livestock herders, for example) will include the locally
relevant script.
52. Cultural sensitivity: As already stated, contractors will be instructed to avoid
construction activities within 500 meters of mosques on religious days (Fridays). They
also will be advised to avoid other behaviors (such as conspicuous consumption of pork)
in predominantly Muslim communities.
Institutional and Financial Arrangements
53. Many of the activities or measures described above are contained in the separate
RAP or EAP prepared for the project. The institutional and budgeting arrangements for
these activities or measures are included therein. Regarding all other measures and
activities included in this plan, XCD is directly responsible for implementation or has
obtained agreement with other agencies involved. XCD is responsible for provision of
funding required to implement the plan (including provision of funding where necessary
to other agencies responsible for some aspects of implementation such as construction of
sideways).
54. Arrangements regarding future identification of local linkage roads: At present only
five of an estimated 12 roads to be included in the local roads component have been
prepared for the first-year implementation program. While remaining areas have been
tentatively identified, detailed preparatory works will be undertaken immediately prior to
implementation. Separate measures have been provided to manage any resettlement or
environmental impacts. Following final identification of roads to be included, a separate
social assessment process also will be undertaken. This process will follow the steps and
methods as described above to ensure adequate consultation with minority nationality
communities. This plan will be updated or revised as necessary in response to social
assessment results. Submission of a revised plan acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition of initiation of civil works. XCD also agrees that it will bear responsibility,
including financial responsibility for implementation of all necessary measures included
in the revised plan.
Monitoring and Grievance Procedures
55. Provisions for monitoring resettlement and environmental impacts are contained in
the separate RAP or EMP prepared for the project. TORs for external resettlement


﻿monitoring include minority nationality language skills and require use of minority
nationality languages where necessary for effective communication. External
resettlement monitoring reports will review issues of concern to minority nationality
communities.
56. Regarding all other aspects of plan implementation, XCD will submit for Bank
review annual implementation progress reports. These reports will include a review of
actions taken in response to specific safety or access issues raised during social
assessment consultations.
57. The separate RAP and EAP include procedures by which affected persons can pursue
complaints regarding what they view as inappropriate project implementation. With
regard to resettlement-related issues or environmental management issues, these
procedures are available to members of minority nationalities, as they are to everyone
similarly affected. XCD will regularly monitor the performance of contractors during
construction, which will include contractor adherence to matters of cultural sensitivity, as
described above. All aspects of ECAP implementation also will be subject to regular
Bank project supervision.
PEO - May 2002


