Page  1
July 16, 2001
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of a Third Xinjiang Highway 
Project (Bank-executed Part) Grant TF 026642
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding fifty thousand 
United States Dollars (US$50,000) (the Grant) to People’s Republic of China (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Deputy Director General
Date:
August 1, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through the Project 
Execution Office under the Xinjiang Communications Department, in the preparation of a 
Third Xinjiang Highway Project which has as main objectives the provision of efficient 
and effective transport infrastructure in support of the social and economic 
development of Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region.  The activities (the Activities) for 
Page  2
which the Grant is given are as follows:
Carrying out of (i) technical audit of the final engineering design required for 
the major highway in the Project and (ii) road safety audit; and providing 
training for local staff of Xinjiang Communications Department in quality audit 
of technical designs, which is estimated cost US$50,000 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than May 21, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). Except 
in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities 
after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall not be 
extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank, by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, People’s Republic of China on the Consultants or any of the 
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in 
connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated November 2000 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.  Services for the Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex may be procured on a 
single-source basis, as permitted under paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  3
