Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7143 CHA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
(Third Xinjiang Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 15, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7143 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 2002, between the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 (B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous 
Region (XUAR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
(the Loan) available to XUAR, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and XUAR (the 
Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of 
the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land), or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or 
any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or 
Page  3
-
2
-
(iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected 
temporarily or permanently; and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who 
qualify as an Affected Person. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“EAPs” means, collectively: (i) the environmental action plan, dated 
January 2002, duly adopted by XUAR in respect of Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the 
environmental action plan, dated January 2002 duly adopted by XUAR in respect of the 
local road sections selected by XUAR under Part B of the Project for the first year of 
Project implementation;
 
and (iii) the environmental action plans to be prepared and 
adopted by XUAR for each of the local road sections to be selected by XUAR under Part 
B
of the Project during the period of Project implementation, which together set forth the 
environmental protection measures in respect of said Parts of the Project, as well as the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, 
as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and 
“EAP” means any of the EAPs. 
 
(d) 
“ECAPs” means, collectively,  the (i) Ethnic Communities Action Plan, 
dated May 2002, duly adopted by XUAR in respect of Part A.1 of the Project and in 
respect of the local road sections selected by XUAR under Part B of the Project for the 
first year of Project implementation; and (ii) the Ethnic Communities Action Plans to be 
prepared and adopted by XUAR for each of the local road sections to be selected by 
XUAR under Part B of the Project during the period of Project implementation, which 
together set forth the special planning measures or actions to be undertaken by XUAR 
under the Project, aimed at ensuring that ethnic minorities in XUAR receive benefits 
from the Project in a culturally compatible manner and do not suffer adverse effects as a 
result of the implementation of the Pr
oject
,
as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank; and “ECAP” means any of the ECAPs as the same may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(e) 
“Leading Group for Traffic Safety” means the inter-agency group 
established by XUAR in 1997 under the Second Xinjiang Highway Project (Loan 
Number 4099-CHA) and maintained for the purpose of coordinating traffic safety, 
policy-making and planning activities in XUAR. 
 
(f) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and XUAR 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“RAPs” means, collectively: (i) the resettlement action plan dated 
February 2002 adopted by XUAR in respect of Part A of the Project and in respect of the 
local road sections selected by XUAR under Part B of the Project for the first year of 
Project implementation; and (ii) the resettlement action plans to be prepared and adopted 
by XUAR for each of the local road sections to be selected by XUAR under Part B of the 
Project during the period of Project implementation in accordance with the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, which together set forth the principles and procedures  to be followed 
and undertaken by XUAR in the implementation of the Project, governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and 
annexes supplemental to said plan; and “RAP” means any of the RAPs as the same may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(h) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework for Rural Roads Improvement Plan, dated February 2002 and adopted by the 
Borrower and  XUAR in respect of Part B of the Project, which sets forth a framework of 
principles and procedures to be followed and undertaken by XUAR in the 
implementation of the Project, governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said framework, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(j) 
“Traffic Safety Secretariat” means the entity established by XUAR in 
1997 to provide institutional support to the Leading Group for Traffic Safety. 
 
(k) 
“XUAR” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region 
and any successor or successors thereto. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars  (US$150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
(iii) any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
Page  6
-
5
-
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause XUAR to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of XUAR therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable XUAR to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to XUAR 
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i)  
XUAR shall repay a principal amount equal to the amount 
equivalent in Dollars (determined on the dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account, or payment out of the Special Account) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid 
out; 
 
(ii)  
XUAR shall repay, in Dollars, the principal amount referred to in 
paragraph (b)(i) above over a period of twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;  
 
(iii)  
XUAR shall pay interest on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and 
 
(iv)  
XUAR shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to: (A) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the 
date on which such charge commences to accrue in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to 
but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(B) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per 
annum thereafter. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
Page  8
-
7
-
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by XUAR pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis statements of expenditure the Borrower shall: 
 
(i)   
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii)  
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii)  
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i)   
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii)  
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
Page  9
-
8
-
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii)  
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
XUAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that XUAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,  
namely, the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by XUAR, and is 
legally binding upon XUAR in accordance with its terms.   
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
    Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
    6855-1119 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 
(a)  under Part A.1(a) 
 
 
 
of
the Project 
   107,860,000   
48% 
 
(b)  under Part B 
 
of the Project 
     15,000,000   
36% 
 
(c) Supply and installation 
 
of  electrical and mechanical  
 
equipment under Part A.1(b) 
 
of the Project  
 
    6,100,000 
 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
   8,340,000   
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
(3) Consultants' 
 
 
 
services                                               1,420,000  
91% 
 
(4)      Training                                                 750,000  
100% 
 
 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
     1,500,000  
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0   
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest  
 
Section 2.09(c) of this 
 Rate 
Collars 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
9,030,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 150,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the 
ter
m
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, however that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding twenty-five million 
dollars ($25,000,000) may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 1, 2002. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$250,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to support economic and social development  in 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region by improving its highway transport infrastructure 
and strengthening the institutional capacity of its highway sector. 
 The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A
:
Capacity Expansion of Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway
1. 
Construction 
of 
Kuitun-Sailimuhu 
Highway 
in 
XUAR, 
consisting 
of :                     
(a) construction of about 303 kilometers of a  highway between  Kuitun and Sailimu 
Lake, including the construction of interchanges, service areas and facilities for the 
operation and maintenance of the highway; and (b) the supply and installation of 
electrical and mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, lighting, and 
emergency telecommunications facilities on said highway. 
2.   
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project. 
PART B
:
Local Roads Rehabilitation Program
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of about twelve (12) sections of rural 
roads totaling about 600 kilometers in length. 
PART C
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen  the capacity of highway sector agencies 
and institutions in XUAR in the areas of highway planning, design, construction 
supervision, operation and maintenance, and project management through the provision 
of training and equipment. 
2.  
Carrying out of studies, providing technical advisory services, and providing 
specialized equipment in respect of:  (a) road management improvement; (b) road safety; 
(c) toll highway management; and (d) a transport services information system. 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
Provision of equipment for the operation and maintenance of the arterial road 
network of XUAR. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
May 15, 2008 
0.62% 
November 15, 2008 
0.62% 
May 15, 2009 
0.62% 
November 15, 2009 
0.62% 
May 15, 2010 
2.03% 
November 15, 2010 
2.03% 
May 15, 2011 
2.03% 
November 15, 2011 
2.03% 
May 15, 2012 
4.07% 
November 15, 2012 
4.07% 
May 15, 2013 
4.07% 
November 15, 2013 
4.07% 
May 15, 2014 
6.10% 
November 15, 2014 
6.10% 
May 15, 2015 
8.13% 
November 15, 2015 
8.13% 
May 15, 2016 
8.13% 
November 15, 2016 
8.13% 
May 15, 2017 
8.13% 
November 15, 2017 
8.13% 
May 15, 2018 
4.07% 
November 15, 2018 
4.07% 
May 15, 2019 
0.50% 
November 15, 2019 
0.50% 
May 15, 2020 
0.50% 
November 15, 2020 
0.50% 
May 15, 2021 
0.50% 
Page  17
-
16
-
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2021 
0.50% 
May 15, 2022 
0.50% 
November 15, 2022 
0.50% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
Page  18
-
17
-
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount equivalent to 
$11,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account  plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of  $75,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall   
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  Special 
 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
 
