                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001408



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71430)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR

                    THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT



                                  June 24, 2010




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2010)

              Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                 RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.146
                  US$ 1.00 = 6.83

                    FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 ­ December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT                  Average Daily Traffic
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                  Country Partnership Strategy
CPMS                 China Pavement Management System
EAMS                 Equipment Asset Management System
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FYP                  Five Year Plan
GDP                  Gross Domestic Products
GOVAI                Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDRP                 Institutional Development and Reform Plan
IEG                  Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
IRI                  International Roughness Index
KSH                  Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway
LRRP                 Local Roads Rehabilitation Program
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC                  Ministry of Communications
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NTHS                 National Trunk Highway System
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PDO                  Project Development Objectives
PEO                  Project Execution Office
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group (in the World Bank)
RAP                  Resettlement Action Plan
VOC                  Vehicle Operating Costs
XCCAB                Xinjiang Communications Construction
                      Administrative Bureau
XCD                  Xinjiang Communications Department
XHAB                 Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau
XUAR                 Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
      Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
    Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                      Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS; and
    Sector Managers:
                      Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
Project Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
   ICR Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
                                                 CHINA
                                     Third Xinjiang Highway Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P058847                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71430
ICR Date:               06/24/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 150.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Xinjiang High Grade Highway Construction Bureau
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/16/2001     Effectiveness:             01/14/2003       01/14/2003
Appraisal:            06/10/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/05/2002     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    94                   94
Sub-national government administration                                6                       6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                   40
Other public sector governance                                        20                   20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     40                   40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Fei Deng                             Jacques M. Tollie
ICR Team Leader:           Fei Deng
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to improve transport infrastructure and sector governance in support of
social and economic development in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), a
remote province in Western China.

 To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following
outputs:



                                                ii
  A. Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased along the regional and
international trade corridor between Kuitun and Sailimuhu close to the Kazakhstan
Border, part of the main east-west section of China's National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS);

 B. Accessibility to selected poor areas in the Region improved through a Local Roads
Rehabilitation Program (LRRP); and

  C. Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
enhanced.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values          Target Years
                Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry for affected counties/cities in
Indicator 1 : Kuisai Corridor (in Y100 m): a) Kelamayi; b) Kuitun; c) Wusu; d) Bole; e)
                Jinghe; f) Wenquan; g) Yili
                                           a) 402.46; b)                     a) 948.9; b) 30.6; c)
Value           a) 285.63; b) 13.89; c)
                                           13.78; c) 20.19; d)               35.1; d) 25.1; e)
quantitative or 13.39; d) 7.45; e) 14.42;
                                           9.32; e) 15.61; f)                12.2; f) 5.16; g)
Qualitative)    f) 2.82; g) 92.21
                                           3.71; g) 105.52                   415.5
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                        09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. Overall, actual GOVAI was some 2-4 times the target.
achievement)
                Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry for selected counties under
Indicator 2 : LRRP (Y100 m): a) Awati; b) Mulei; c) Baicheng; d) Yuepuhu; e) Pishan; f)
                Yinjisha; g) Gongliu
                                           a) 11.03; b) 6.24;
Value           a) 8.34; b) 2.51; c) 6.63;                                   a) 15.3; b) 7.8; c)
                                           c) 10.67; d) 4.12;
quantitative or d) 3.28; e) 4.00; f) 3.41;                                   17.3; d) 7.9; e) 6.6;
                                           e) 5.03; f) 6.06; g)
Qualitative)    g) 4.08                                                      f) 10.8; g) 10.8
                                           7.54
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                        09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. Overall, actual GOVAI was some 50 percent higher than target.
achievement)
                Balance of provincial Road Exp. programs: (a) Total maintenance expenditures
Indicator 3 :
                in million Y; (b) Net annual increase in %
Value
quantitative or (a) 535; (b) 4.7%          (a) 650; (b) 5.0%                 (a)784; (b) 6.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                        09/30/2009


                                                iii
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Targets were surpassed by 20 and 30 percent, respectively.
achievement)
                  Traffic Safety: Number of traffic accidents involving fatalities per number of
Indicator 4 :
                  vehicles
Value
quantitative or   22/10,000 vehicles         20/10,000 vehicles                 11/10,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                 12/31/2007                           12/31/2008
Comments          Achieved. The target was largely surpassed. The improvement was the result of
(incl. %          more attention to safety as a result of the project and the extensive road
achievement)      improvements in Xinjiang during the period.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                  documents)                       Target Years
                  Traffic congestion in Kui-Sai Corridor: a) Kuitun-Wusu; b) Wusu-Bole; c) Bole
Indicator 1 :
                  Crossing (traffic in veh/day)
                                                                                a)14,560 (of which
Value                                                                           6,327 on the new
                  a) 11,313; b) 6,441; c)     a) 14,962; b)
(quantitative                                                                   Expressway)
                  2,377                       8,833; c) 3,100
or Qualitative)                                                                 b)6,918
                                                                                c)4,434
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        09/30/2009
Comments          Achieved. This indicator needs to be taken together with Indicator 2. While
(incl. %          traffic increased on the corridor, speeds increased, showing a drop in the level of
achievement)      congestion.
                  Average travel speed in Kui-Sai Corridor: a) Kuitun-Wusu; b) Wusu-Bole; c)
Indicator 2 :
                  Bole Crossing (speed in km/hour)
Value                                                                           a)120
(quantitative     a) 47; b) 45; c) 30         a) 90, b) 80; c) 60               b)80
or Qualitative)                                                                 c)60
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Highway maintenance: Improved road condition on the paved road network
Value
(quantitative     IRI 5.6                    IRI 5.2                            IRI 4.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         10/31/2009
Comments
                  Achieved. Road condition as measured by the IRI is 16 percent better than
(incl. %
                  expected.
achievement)




                                                  iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    12/10/2002         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    03/27/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     8.50
  3    06/10/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   14.46
  4    12/09/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   43.87
  5    04/29/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   43.87
  6    12/08/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   57.19
  7    06/20/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   69.84
  8    12/06/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   83.44
  9    06/15/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   92.78
 10    02/14/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  119.30
 11    05/29/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  129.12
 12    11/15/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  137.75
 13    05/29/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  145.42
 14    02/13/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  145.42
 15    07/08/2009         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           146.92
 16    01/14/2010         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  150.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The government strategy in the early 2000s regarding the highway sector aimed to ensure
that the highway system helps integrate China's national economy and facilitates
mobility of goods and services. The investment priority during the Ninth Five-Year Plan
(1996-2000) was given to developing the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS). The
first phase, totaling 17,000 kilometers was expected to be completed by 2003. The
development of some 130,000 kilometers of provincial and rural roads feeding into the
NTHS was planned and undertaken in parallel to maximize the benefits of the NHTS.
High priority was also given to providing all-weather roads to remote/low income areas
in poor provinces.

Under the Tenth Plan (FY2001-2005), highway sector institutional reforms were
expected to intensify as the country moved towards a more open and competitive
economy. Such reforms included:

       Giving the market a growing role in providing both infrastructure and transport
       services
       Decentralizing and reorganizing the sector to maximize the use of resources
       through better planning and programming, increase reliance on outsourcing works
       and services, improve supervision and quality control
       Mobilizing new sources of user charge based revenues and promoting
       public/private financing mechanisms
       Improving rural accessibility in all provinces and links to and within the Western
       provinces
       Improving traffic safety while minimizing environmental and social impact on
       people affected by highway development

A government program in support of Western Development was especially relevant to
Xinjiang. The program covered 12 provinces (including Xinjiang Autonomous Region)
that make up the Western Region, representing a total area of 6 million square kilometers,
about 60 percent of the country's total land area and 25 percent of its population. Since
adoption of economic reforms in 1978, development greatly accelerated in the east, in
part thanks to large investment in improving transport infrastructure. By 1998, per capita
income in the east was three times that in the western region. The Tenth FYP had as a
major objective to develop Western Provinces, which had great potential for the
extraction and processing of natural resources, including agriculture. For the road sector,
actions were contemplated at three levels:

       East-West connections: Developing eight corridors totaling about 15,000
       kilometers to link the Western Region and East China
       Network improvements within the Western Region: Rehabilitating and upgrading
       of about 180,000 kilometers of the road network in this region


                                            1
       Rural access: Alleviating poverty in rural towns and villages through the
       improvement or construction of 150,000 kilometers of rural roads.

The project aimed to address the following sector issues: (a) sector management,
focusing on developing institutional capacity and improving transport facilitation,
(b) managing road sector expenditures, by sustaining road maintenance through the use
of more modern tools and improving budget allocations for maintenance and by
improving construction quality through better designs and improved construction
supervision, (c) managing revenues and resources, mainly by improving the organization
and management of toll roads and through a better utilization of pavement management
software (d) enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas, especially to about a
third of XUAR's 87 counties, which are designated as poor counties and located mostly
in the southwest and northwest of Xinjiang.

In addition to these sectoral issues, the project intended to focus on two externalities:
road safety, continuing the work initiated the preceding two Xinjiang highway projects
(X1 and X2) and addressing the needs of minorities, on the basis of social assessments
undertaken for the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project aims to improve transport infrastructure and sector governance in support of
social and economic development in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), a
remote province in Western China.

To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:

A. Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased along the regional and international
trade corridor between Kuitun and Sailimuhu close to the Kazakhstan Border, part of the
main east-west section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS);

B. Accessibility to selected poor areas in the Region improved through a Local Roads
Rehabilitation Program (LRRP); and

C. Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
enhanced.




                                             2
The principal outcome/impact indicators for monitoring progress toward the PDO were:

       Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI) in affected counties
       along the Kuitun-Sailimuhu corridor and the local roads supported by the project
       Transport cost at selected locations
       A balanced program of road expenditures (to assess funding for road
       maintenance)
       Traffic accident fatality rates
       Traffic volume and travel time along the Kuitun-Sailimuhu corridor
       Road network condition

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. The indicator on transport cost was dropped, as it was found
that the impact on cost could not be assessed in a way that it would provide useful
outcome or impact information (see Section 2.3).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries would be the users of the project-financed KSH highway, who
would enjoy a major reduction in operating costs of vehicles and in travel time. The
benefits of this highway, because it would foster inter-regional and international trade
facilitation, would spill beyond the road users themselves, to producers for whom the
reduction of transport cost would expand their markets, and to consumers who would
benefit from more competition. The total affected population in the KSH corridor was
estimated at 3.2 million.

The project would also benefit residents of the poor counties in the Region, where the
project will finance improvement of rural roads, through improved access to health,
education and other services as well as to markets. The total affected population in the
poor counties was estimated at 2 million.

Also benefiting from the project would the Xinjiang highway agency and its various
departments, in particular in the areas of planning, design, financing, supervision,
construction, operation and maintenance of highways. Highway users throughout the
XUAR would benefit from improved highway safety over Xinjiang highway network,
including national, provincial and county roads.




                                             3
1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of the components listed below:

Component 1: KSH Corridor, US$271.74 million.

 (a)    Subcomponent 1A: Construction of Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway (KSH),
US$248.93. This 312 kilometer highway represents the remaining gap of the NTHS on
the 1,430 km long stretch of the National Highway 312 traversing Xinjiang. This route is
also the main trunk line of Xinjiang, serving an area of large and diverse economic
potential and an important international link since ancient times, because it was part of
the northern section of the Silk Road. The Kuitin-Wusu section of the KSH (18
kilometers) was designed as an expressway on a new alignment, some 1-3 kilometers
away from the old road. The remaining section Wusu-Bole Fork-Sailimuhu would mostly
improve the existing road, making it wider and safer (about 80 percent of the KSH would
be on the existing alignment) and adding by-passes of the main cities traversed by the
road.

(b)    Subcomponent 1B: Construction supervision, US$8.42 million. Supervision of
the KSH would be carried out by a Joint Supervision Team (JST), an association of a
foreign firm and a local firm.

(c)    Subcomponent 1C: Land acquisition and resettlement, US$14.39 million.
Construction of the KSH would require permanent use of about 407.5 hectares of land,
and would affect 1,450 persons, who would need to be relocated.

Component 2: LRRP program, US$44.88 million

This component would consist of a Local Road Rehabilitation Program (LRRP), aimed to
improve accessibility to poor areas in the Region. Some 600 kilometers of local roads in
poor areas would be improved under the LRRP, without changes to their existing
alignment. A preliminary LRRP, composed of 12 links, had been agreed.

Component 3: Institutional, studies and equipment, US$16.08 million

(a)     Subcomponent 3A: Institutional strengthening/training, US$1.00 million. This
component would help finance strengthening departments of the XCD that were not
included in the institutional strengthening program under the previous two Bank highway
projects in Xinjiang. The current project would target the XCD Head Office (XHGHAB),
the Xinjiang Provincial Survey and Design Institute (XRSPDI) and the QCMC.

(b)      Subcomponent 3B: Studies and technical assistance, US$0.63 million. This
component would consist of: (i) a road maintenance management improvement (RMMI)
activity, intended to provide XCD with a modern tool for managing road assets and
making optimal use of funds in the road sector, and (ii) continuous support to other
critical activities, to support implementation launched under other previous projects in the



                                             4
areas of road safety, improving management of toll highways and improving transport
services.

(c)     Subcomponent 3C: Equipment for institutional strengthening and operations
and maintenance, US$14.45 million. This would include equipment for institutional
strengthening (US$3.64 million) and for operations and maintenance of the road network
(US$10.81 million).

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

A Supplemental Letter in 2002, part of the Loan Documentation added baselines and
targets for the performance indicators, which had not been included in the PAD. The
Supplemental Letter also modified some of the descriptions of the PDO's Outcome and
Output Indicators (See Section 2.3).

The original closing date, December 31, 2007, was extended twice: the first time to
December 31, 2008, and the second time was to December 31, 2009, in order to allow
completion of the LRRP and of the training program. More details of the extension are
given in Section 5.2.

In 2003, XCD decided to upgrade, with local finance, the BF-S section, which had steep
gradients and many accidents, to a Class I, 4-lane highway. The upgrading works were
launched when the original project works for the section were practically completed. This
had impact on Bank's original plan to improve the safety condition of this road section
based on recommendations of a series of safety audits which were made on the Class II
road.

Under the LRRP program, four of the 12 roads included in the PAD as a tentative
selection, were replaced by four new LRRP roads.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation

Taking into account previous lessons learned. The Bank had prepared two highway
projects in Xinjiang prior to the current project, Xinjiang 1 (XPH1) that was closed at the
time of Xinjiang 3 (XPH3) appraisal and Xinjiang 2 (XPH2) that was ongoing.
Preparation was carried out in conjunction with supervision of Xinjiang 2, and benefited
from the experience with these two projects.




                                             5
Preparation took into account lessons from the overall highway portfolio in China and
experience specific to Xinjiang. The former included issues such as engineering design,
bid documentation and cost estimates of civil works; construction quality control, and
slow pace of policy and institutional reforms. The latter considered that XCD was
engaged in policy matters which had been started under XHP1 and XHP2. Thus,
selection of institutional reforms under XPH3 needed to ensure that reforms would be
truly supported by XCD, and that reforms would first require building consensus among
critical stakeholders.

A major difference between XHP3 and the two preceding highway projects was the
attention it gave to local roads. In contrast, XHP2 focused on improving provincial roads,
while XHP1 did not include improvement of either local or provincial roads.

Design

Considering alternatives to improve project design. Various alternatives were considered
regarding different aspects of the project. On the KSH, an alternative of public/private
provision was considered, but discarded because of the reluctance of private investors for
greenfield operations in China at that time, as well as the specific financial characteristics
of the KSH. Route alternatives were also considered, such as a new alignment parallel to
the existing national highway 312, but were rejected based on findings of the
prefeasibility study. Alternative on using the existing road alignment except at locations
where it crosses cities and towns was considered but rejected, due to higher cost. Under
the LRRP, alternative links were considered based, on the one hand, on their
socioeconomic impact, and, on the other, the technical urgency due to poor road
condition. This analysis led to the tentative selection of 12 roads.

Regarding the institutional components, consideration was initially given to including in
the project a strong trade facilitation component, which would have helped support the
western development strategy through domestic market integration and facilitating
international trade between China and Central Asia. However, due to other regional
initiatives ongoing during preparation of the XHP3, it was decided to limit the scope to
improving the physical infrastructure. A decision was made during preparation to
consider the Institutional Development and Reform Plan (IDRP) as a dynamic document
that needed to be adjusted periodically reflecting changes taking place in XCD,
concurrently with reforms in Xinjiang. The IDRP was a five-year plan focusing on five
main sector issues in XCD: institutional strengthening and training, traffic safety, toll
highway management and rate structure, transport facilitation, and road management and
maintenance improvement.

Risks

Strong counterpart commitment to mitigate risks. None of the risks identified in the PAD
were rated as being high. Three risks, all institutional, were identified in the `output to
objective' sequence. They were: (i) the need to internalize of improved procedures for
sector organization, management and operation, mitigated by detailed TOR for the



                                              6
studies and close Bank supervision; (ii) continued commitment to implement TA
recommendations, mitigated by XCD strong ownership in the preparation of the various
action plans, and (iii) that the reorganization of XCD does not prove disruptive, mitigated
with assurances obtained from XCD on stability of core staff involved in project
management. Risks listed in the `component to output' sequence included timely
availability of counterpart funds, performance of contractors and consultants, political
pressures interfering with implementation of plans and opportunities for trainees to apply
their skills in the workplace. These risks were mitigated by strong XUAR commitment,
careful review of procurement awards and close contract supervision, a carefully
prepared Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and a high demand for skilled staff.

Quality at Entry

The Bank's Quality Assessment Group did not carry out a Quality at Entry Assessment
(QAE) for this project.

2.2 Implementation

Personnel Changes in XCD. During implementation, XCD was reorganized and several
major changes happened in management and senior technical positions in the XCCAB.
These changes had some negative impact on the carrying out of the institutional
strengthening program.

KSH

Early implementation. Construction of the KSH proceeded at a fast pace since the
beginning of the project. By September 2005, or about 3 years after approval of the
project, all KSH contracts had been substantially completed. Some of the contracts had
been completed as early as October 2003.

Technical problems. A number of technical problems arose during implementation,
including quality of pavement, settlement of embankments, and treatment of
contamination. These issues were satisfactorily dealt with.

Safety issues. Traffic safety was an important concern during construction of the KSH.
Some safety issues stemmed from engineering drawings not showing in detail areas of
potential safety problems. Safety measures identified in the design were normally shown
only in tables, rather than in the drawings, and this created a number of safety issues
during implementation. A significant safety issue was the transition between the
expressway and connecting roads, which generally lacked appropriate warnings to the
drivers of the change in type of road. Safety issues also arose from the fact that KSH
looks like a four-lane expressway all the way through, but in fact it is a combination of
expressway and Class I road. The Class I road sections in KSH have the same type and
color of road signs, same cross-sections, and same straight and smooth alignments, as the
expressway section. This gave drivers on the Class I road the feeling that it was a high
speed road with no intersections or urban areas, reducing their alertness in the at-grade


                                             7
crossing with other roads and in the urban crossings, and increasing the risk of accidents.
Bank supervision missions focused on these issues and provided recommendations (see
Section 5).

Design changes of Bole Fork-Sailimuhu section. During implementation, after the
original 2-lane road improvement had been completed, and following a string of
accidents attributed to a long and steep downhill, this section was converted to a 4-lane
road with two separate carriageways. The redesign kept the existing lanes as the uphill
road, while a new downhill road was built with a new alignment, 7.6 kilometers longer,
to reduce gradients. This effective solution was commended by the Bank team.

LRRP

Changes in composition. Four of the preselected LRRP roads, listed in the PAD, were
taken off from the project as they were improved by the local governments with their
own finance. These roads were substituted by other four roads, also located in poor
counties.

Implementation. Carrying out the road construction and improvements under the LRRP
program was complicated as some of the road works completed in 2004 suffered
damages following heavy snow in February 2005. One of the road sections under the
LRRP program, Akasi-Xihexiu road, encounters extreme geological conditions and
technical difficulties. As a result, it experienced change of contractors, management
teams, modification of design, and delay in implementation.

Contract prices. Contracts were all fixed-price, which created problems during
implementation due to significant increases in the cost of labor, material and fuel,
particularly during 2007 and 2008. Price variations overall were small (8.6 percent)
although variations in individual roads reached substantially higher values (up to 43
percent).

Institutional Strengthening and Training

This was the slowest part of the project, the training as well as the studies. In addition to
delays in starting this component, expected actions once the component was started were
regularly late. Overseas tours, which were a minor part of the overall training program,
were curtailed due to the decision of Xinjiang Finance Bureau in May 2009 to cancel all
remaining training and study tours.

Project Cost

The final project cost is $390.95 million, which is 17.5 percent higher than estimated at
appraisal. The main factors for the higher cost are the devaluation of the dollar relative to
the RMB, and work order variations on the KSH.




                                              8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD listed four outcome indicators as key performance indicators (PAD, Annex 1)
and a larger number of output indicators. The PAD did not, however, include specific
targets against which to assess outcome. A Supplemental Letter, part of the project's loan
documents, included specific targets and baseline values, together with a minor
reformulation of the indicators. They are shown in the Data Sheet of this ICR. This ICR
uses the PAD indicators, but excludes one indicator (transport costs), as discussed below.
Baselines and targets in the Data Sheet are mainly from the Supplemental Letter. The
exceptions are the indicators of economic activity (GOVAI) in the KSH corridor, and the
target speeds in that corridor. These were corrected during a detailed analysis of the
performance indicators in June 2005.

The selected indicators were appropriate to monitor achievement of the project objective,
although some were overly complex and were simplified during implementation, and the
simplified ones did not materially change the purpose of the indicators. One such case
was an indicator regarding provincial expenditures, which originally intended to divide
into type of work (new construction, rehabilitation and maintenance) and between classes
of roads.

Most of the indicators were easy to monitor, since they required data that was
periodically collected by Xinjiang provincial government (economic data) and XCD
(transport data). Only one indicator, intended to assess the impact of the improved roads
on transport costs, proved to be inadequate. The indicator was based on transport rates,
which are set and regulated by Xinjiang government, rather than actual operating costs to
providers of transport services. Had it been the latter, it would have been a better
reflection of the impact of the road improvement, but it would still have been difficult to
measure. Therefore, though the transport cost indicator was monitored, it could not
provide any useful information to achieve the intended purpose.

The PAD's M&E included a detailed table regarding the institutional components,
showing for each subcomponent, the end results, the outputs, and the indicators. The
subcomponents covered in this table were: (i) the IDRP, ii) traffic safety, iii) institutional
strengthening and training, (iv) toll highway management and rate structure, (v) road
management and maintenance, and (vi) transport facilitation.

Values of the indicators were regularly requested by the Bank missions and reported in
the supervision reports. However, PEO's reports on the performance indicators were
often late, and occasionally, there were problems with the credibility of the values
reported, especially regarding traffic and the IRI (road roughness). XCD carried out
revisions requested by the supervision missions. Monitoring of the indicator on transport
costs was not pursued, after a XCD survey of transport rates showed that they would not
be altered as a result of road improvements.

Most of the indicators were utilized by the XCD for their own planning and monitoring
purposes. Of special interest to the XCD were the indicators, such as on road congestion,



                                              9
road safety and improved road condition, that directly reflected the impact of the XCD
actions on improving the quality of road service.

As shown in the data sheet, most of the project targets were achieved.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Rating: Satisfactory

Environmental Aspects. Environmental protection during implementation followed the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The project was Category A. However, the
alignment of the KSH posed relatively few environmental issues, since the alignment
goes mainly through desertic lands. The LRRP's major potential environmental issues
were noise and dust pollution, for which appropriate mitigation measures were applied
during construction.

Social Aspects. Land acquisition and resettlement for the construction of the KSH was
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Independent
monitoring of resettlement was carried out. Actual resettlement resulted in 748 people
affected in 196 households, and land acquisition of 1,333 ha. Total compensation paid
was 120 million Yuan, which was more than double the RAP estimate. The difference is
mainly due to an increase in the actual amount of agricultural land acquired, coupled with
an increase in the number of persons and households affected and higher compensation
rates than stipulated in the RAP.

Some variations occurred between planned and actual values, as shown in the table
below:

                                 Planned (RAP)         Actual            Change (%)
 Land acquisition, (ha)            1,333.00           1,333.00                  0
 Of which, cultivated                  1.95               4.29            +220.00
 Houses removed (000 sq m)            33.99              35.90               5.60
 Trees (000)                         193.03             193.03                  0
 Total cost (million Yuan)            53.80             120.00            +123.00



Some important aspects of the land acquisition and resettlement process were

       A Land Utilization Division was established under XCCAB, and was responsible
       for land acquisition and resettlement
       A special account was set up to control cost and ensure that compensation was
       correctly provided
       Information on land acquisition and household removal were made public, as part
       of social monitoring, which was carried out by an external, independent agency
       Restoration of irrigation was carried out in consultation with local governments
       and local people



                                            10
Upon completion of the resettlement process, the living standards of the displaced
families were better than before (Refer to Annex 7, G).

The LRRP did not involve any land acquisition.

Financial Management

The overall financial management compliance was satisfactory. The financial
management system during implementation had no significant changes from appraisal,
which was deemed acceptable to the Bank. The implementing agency complied with the
legal agreement to submit annual audit reports and periodical financial monitoring reports
to the Bank in a timely manner. All these reports were reviewed by the Bank and
considered as acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement

Procurement of works, goods and consultant services was generally carried out in
accordance with the Bank guidelines.

Under the Local Road Rehabilitation Program (LRRP) component, contracts for some of
the local roads were split into small lots which were burdensome for the Client to manage,
and which resulted in small contracts of little interest to larger contractors that could have
offered better prices. One very remote local road (NCB procured) with extremely
difficult geological conditions suffered delay in completion. It was later found that force
account may have been a more appropriate procurement method for this type of work
which is too challenging to attract any contractor.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Xinjiang Communications Construction Administrative Bureau, XCCAB (formerly
known as Xinjiang High Grade Highway Administration Bureau, XHGHAB) was
initially responsible for the operation and maintenance of the KSH highway. Following
administrative changes in XCD in 2009, XCCAB now is only responsible for
construction, while XHAB has taken over responsibility for operations and maintenance.

The management of the KSH benefits from an improved maintenance system, modern
maintenance equipment and better coordination with the police to ensure a higher degree
of road safety.

The LRRP roads are maintained by the local offices of the XCD.

Financing for the maintenance and operations of the KSH and the LRRP roads is
provided under the XCD annual budget.




                                             11
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective was highly relevant to Xinjiang. As noted in Section 1.1,
construction of the XSH was a key part of the government strategy to develop the
highway network to help integrate China's national economy. The KSH was especially
relevant to the development program of the Western Region, which lagged substantially
behind in development compared to the eastern provinces

The CAS1 prevailing at appraisal, reflecting the Bank's strategic directions of fostering
growth, reducing poverty, supporting better governance, and improving the environment,
had identified infrastructure improvement as one of the key areas of China's development
to be supported by the Bank.

Since the time of project appraisal, the rationale for the project has remained, or even
increased. With China's growing needs for natural resources, the Xinjiang region, having
many untapped natural resources, has become increasingly important to serve the Chinese
economy, and exploration of the region's natural resources has intensified. The
improvements of the road network under the project will make a significant contribution
to facilitating such exploration.

At the same time, the fact that the Xinjiang region has borders with eight countries in
Central Asia, makes its transport system, both its infrastructure and the quality of
transport logistics, an important asset for the Region as well for China.

The project objective is also consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
2006-2010, and the project components that improve road access to trade and services
and more efficient sector management support especially three CPS areas:

           Reduce internal and external barriers to trade
           Reduce poverty, inequality and social exclusion through expanding access to
           social and infrastructure services
           Manage resource scarcity and environmental challenges

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project objectives were substantially achieved. The outputs made an important
contribution to improving transport infrastructure and sector governance, and supported
social and economic development in XUAR. The areas served by the project, around the
KSH and the LRRP roads, gained more in economic growth (GOVAI in 2009 being 2-4
times greater than in 2007, depending on specific road) than Xinjiang or China as a whole



1
    CAS documents: 16321-CHA dated March 18, 1997 and Progress Report R98-107, dated May 28, 1998.




                                                       12
(that about doubled the value of GOVAI during the same period).2 Project outputs, which
were well selected to reflect achievement of objectives, were attained thanks to the
successful implementation of the project.

Relieving traffic congestion and increasing mobility along the KSH corridor

The KSH opened to traffic in November 2006. It includes an 18 kilometer section,
between Kuitun and Wusu, (K-W) built as a four-lane, access controlled expressway, and
the remaining as a four-lane highway. The project-financed work on the KSH represents
a major improvement of the road system in the XAUR region, and especially for the
purpose of trading, since the KSH reaches close to the border with Kazakhstan on the
west, and with an expressway which is part of the national trunk highway system on the
east.

The following indicators reflect the improvement in travel along the KSH corridor,
caused by the project:

             Average travel speed on the corridor rose in the sections Kuitun-Wusu (K-W),
             Wusu ­ Bole Fork (W-BF), and Bole Fork-Sailimuhu (BF-S), increasing from a
             baseline of 47, 45 and 30 kilometers per hour, respectively, to 120, 80 and 60
             kilometers per hour, at completion.

             Mobility increased, and congestion fell, in the corridor, as traffic increased in the
             W-BF and BF-S sections, while average speeds also increased, as illustrated by
             the above figures. In the K-W section, traffic has taken more time than expected
             to build up. However, this is a rather common phenomenon in the newly
             constructed expressways in China. In the case of the KSH, factors identified as
             causing a delay in traffic build up include the paving in recent years of roads to
             many villages, that has diverted traffic from the KSH; the central government
             instruction to remove (starting in 2008) toll collection on roads Class II and below,
             that has further diverted traffic from KSH; truckers on long-distance travel
             modernizing and using larger-capacity trucks, from an average of 8 tons a few
             years ago to many truckers using 30-ton trucks today, thus reducing the number of
             trucks travelling on the road.

             The overall quality of the XUAR's road network improved, as shown by the
             improvement in the quality of the surface of the road network (road roughness
             index improved from IRI5.6 at start of project to IRI 4.9 at closing). While the
             improvement exceeded the target, and XCD increased the allocation for
             maintenance (in real terms) during the project period, the extensive road
             construction and improvement in Xinjiang during the 2000s may have also been a
             major factor influencing the quality of XUAR's road network.



2
    Source: http://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki.




                                                  13
       Road safety improved as exemplified by the drastic reduction in the rate of traffic
       accidents involving fatalities (from 22/10,000 vehicles in 2003 to 11/10,000
       vehicles in 2008), the fixing of blackspots and the stronger police enforcement of
       traffic safety on the KSH highway. Safety audits carried under the project also
       helped to improve safety.

The improved travel conditions along the KSH corridor led, as expected, to an increase in
the economic output in the counties served by the KSH, as stated at the start of this
section It is, however, not possible to separate the impact on economic growth caused by
the improved KSH travel from other growth factors in XAUR.

Increasing accessibility in counties served by the LRRP program

Traffic on LRRP roads increased substantially, as shown by the data below for the four
LRRP roads selected to monitor traffic developments. This traffic increase is an indicator
of the increased mobility in the areas of the LRRP roads.

               Average Annual Daily Traffic (ADT) Equivalent (veh/day)

                                                       2000               2008
                                                    (base year)           Actual
      S303 Jimusar-Santai (Santai Station)             2,833              5,290
      S303 Mulei-Qitai (Wumachang Station              2,405              6,889
      S311 Jiashi-Shile                                3,804              5,851
      G315Keriya-Pishan (Hetian)                       2,085              2,504

The LRRP program benefitted local minorities, which in several of the LRRP roads
accounted for more than 90 percent of the population living along the roads.

                                 Road                  Percentage Local
                                                          Minorities
                   Santai-Quitai                             24.5
                   Mulei-Tuyuantun-Qitai                     24.7
                   Bayitouhai-Tekese-Zaosu                   68.9
                   Awati-Akesu                               53.1
                   Baicheng-Yuergun                          97.9
                   Yuepuhu-Tazihong                          93.7
                   Keriya-Pishan                             98.7
                   Jiashe-Sule                               96.5
                   Yuepuhu-Yingjisha                         98.1
                   Tuoli-Tachackou                           72.6
                   Akasi-Xihexiu                             94.2
                   Cele-Bositan Xian                         98.4

Economic and social development in the counties served by the LRRP also improved,
and exceeded project targets. The same caveat regarding separating the impact of the
LRRP relative to other growth factors mentioned for the KSH applies to the LRRP.



                                             14
Strengthening institutional capacity

Institutional Development and Reform Plan. The project supported, via training and
studies and technical assistance, a major restructuring of the XCD, concluded in 2006,
that included separating political from management functions, providing autonomy to
XCD-owned enterprises, simplifying bureaucratic procedures, and streamlining
construction and maintenance under different agency units.

Training. The main topics covered were environmental protection, highway engineering
supervision, financial management, project management, and human resource
development. Overall 1,036 persons (996 man-months) were trained, substantially more
than the PAD estimate of 817 persons (762 man-months). Training targets were largely
exceeded in domestic training in Xinjiang and elsewhere in China, which was the largest
part of the training program (953 persons actual versus 696 in the PAD) but fell short in
overseas training and study tours (83 persons actual versus 121 in the PAD).

Road Maintenance Management Improvement. Management of road maintenance was
strengthened as the Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS), a useful
maintenance management tool, which existed but was not operational prior to the project,
has now become a standard tool for XCD. The CPMS has been used in the preparation of
Xinjiang's 2005-2007 maintenance plan. This was made possible by each maintenance
unit of XCD collecting data and feeding it into the CPMS program. Outputs from the
CPMS have also been used to provide the Bank data on the evolution of the road network,
financing of road maintenance, current maintenance plans and pavement condition.

Equipment Asset Management (EAMS). Although there were initial problems in the
design and implementation of the system, it is currently in operation and helping XCD
make decisions on equipment management. XCD is considering introducing further
improvements.

Transport Facilitation Study. The conclusions and recommendations of this study were
discussed and approved by policy-makers at a Forum on Transport and Logistics, held in
Xinjiang in September 2008. A Bank supervision in May 2008 suggested that further
efforts should be made to better standardize and regulate the large number of freight
terminal companies in XUAR (469, more than ten times the number in most of the large
European countries), and increase the efficiency and quality of freight and passenger
transport. It is expected that the study and the mission's recommendations will be used as
an input for the formulation of Xinjiang Logistics Development Plan, expected to be put
in operation during 2010.




                                           15
3.3 Efficiency

Economic evaluation

KSH. At appraisal, the economic rate of return of the KSH improvement was estimated at
20 percent. At completion, following the same methodology used at appraisal, the ERR is
also estimated at 20 percent. There are, however, differences between the appraisal and
actual depending on the road section, as shown below (for details, see Annex 3).
                                              Appraisal Estimate   Actual
                                                    ERR            ERR
                  Section                            (%)            (%)
                  Kuitun ­ Wusu                       21             16
                  Wusu ­ Bole                         18             22
                  Bole ­ Sailimuhu                    31             17
                  Total                             19.6            20.4

The upgrading, under local finance, of the Bole-Sailimuhu section from Class II (two
lanes) to Class I (four lanes), decided by XCD because of the traffic risks posed by the
steep gradients of this section, was economically justified, although the ERR is lower
than the original estimate for a two-lane road. The economic analysis was carried out by
a Bank supervision mission in October 2003, which found an ERR of 19 percent. At
completion, based on actual construction cost and current traffic data, the actual return
for this section is slightly lower, 17 percent, still satisfactory.

LRRP. The economic evaluation done at appraisal of twelve rural roads (total 603 km)
included in the LRRP found an ERR of 32 percent. At completion, the ERR of the LRRP
is estimated at 27 percent, which is satisfactory. The lower ERR at completion is due to
an increase in the average construction cost per kilometer of 34 percent relative to
appraisal estimates. For details, see Annex 3.

Fiscal impact

At appraisal, the fiscal impact of the `toll free' roads included in the project, the KSH
except the K-W expressway section, and all the LRRP program, was found to be minimal,
since they represent a small fraction of the XCD funds flow and of the total maintenance
expenditure of the XCD. The situation at completion is substantially the same. The fact
that there were no problems with counterpart funding for any of the physical investments
of the projects confirms this assessment.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Considering that the project objectives were achieved as shown by the achievement of
practically all the performance indicators, and that the project had a good efficiency, the
project outcome is rated satisfactory.



                                              16
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The LRRP had a significant impact on poverty, since a majority of the counties where the
roads were located were classified as poor, whether at the national or regional level.

                      Poverty levels in counties served by LRRP roads
             County
                               National           Regional              None
         Jiashi                   x
         Shule                    x
         Cele                     x
         Yecheng                  x
         Yingjisha                x
         Yueouhu                  x
         Pishan                   x
         Tuoli                    x
         Mulei                                        x
         Awati                                                           x
         Tekesi                                                          x
         Baicheng                                                        x
         Qitai                                                           x

As shown in the Data Sheet (and the comparison between the KSH and LRRP areas with
Xinjiang and China, at the start of Section 3.2), the counties around the KSH and in the
areas served by the LRRP roads had big gains in economic growth during the project
period, which likely resulted in an improvement in the standards of living of the poor
population.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The training program and the various studies made a useful contribution to institutional
strengthening in the management of the XAUR road network. The impact of the training
sessions was evaluated by the trainees, and the new knowledge gained by the XCD staff
was disseminated internally in the road agency, further extending the benefits of the
training program.

The studies helped improve the management of the road network and of the road
maintenance equipment, provided the basis for developing Xinjiang's Transportation and
Logistics plan, currently under preparation, and helped analyze the toll rate structure.
Another important impact was the knowledge from the study on safety in the
transportation companies that such companies have a much worse safety records than
most other vehicles, and that therefore XCD will need to devote especial attention to
ensure that these companies take appropriate actions to reduce accidents. The major
deliverables and outcomes by each individual study are summarized below:




                                            17
Road Maintenance Management Improvement (RMMI). The report of "3-Year
Maintenance Plan and the Lowest Maintenance Standards in 2005-2007" was completed.
The report described how the objectives of RMMI were achieved by using CPMS.
Equipment Asset Management System (EAMS). The development of EAMS (including
users' manual) as well as installation, trial operation and staff training had all been
completed in December 2005. Currently the system is being used in all the management
divisions of XCCAB.
Road Safety. The Road Safety Audit Report for the operation stage of the Project was
completed by the end of 2008. Also, manuals and cartoon cards on road safety topic were
prepared and distributed to schools and villages to educate people to pay high attention to
traffic safety. School zone signs were also installed.
Improved Management of Toll Highways. The final toll study was submitted by the
Xinjiang Highway Survey, Planning, Design & Research Institute and approved by the
Bank in May 2004. The XCCAB made the final acceptance for the study on
November 24, 2007. The toll rate of this project was approved by people's government of
autonomous region based on the result of the toll study.
Improved Transport Services. The report of "Development Model of Freight Transport
by Road in Xinjiang" was completed in October 2004. The final acceptance for this study
was made on August 16, 2007, when the main author of the report, Beijing Polytechnic
University submitted the study conclusions.

Also, after "Xinjiang Transportation (International Road Transportation) and Modern
Logistics Forum" was carried out in September 2008, the team discussed the "Xinjiang
Road Transportation and Logistics Development Plan and relevant policy studies"
together with decision makers and property owners. Major suggestions proposed in this
study approved by decision makers and would be the basis of "Xinjiang Logistics
Development Plan" under general guidelines of "National Highway Transportation Hubs
Plan". The results of the study are used for construction of freight terminals in ADB
financed Korle-Kuqa Expressway Project, which is under construction currently.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Livelihood of affected population got significantly improved. A sample of 100
households showed significant increase in income, production facilities and household
equipment. More details are shown in Annex 5.




                                            18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Past experience in XAUR indicates that newly built roads are well maintained, and the
KSH should follow the same trend. Toll revenues along the KSH appear to be sufficient
to provide adequate maintenance. With traffic increasing rapidly on the KSH, toll
revenues will rise, and the number of beneficiaries will also increase.

The LRRP has improved roads that provide important road access to local minorities, and
budgetary allocations to maintain such roads are expected to be adequate.

The improvements brought about by the project's institutional components, including
training, are unlikely to be reversed.

While the above points to a low risk to development outcome, a broader view of the risk
should take into account the major increase in the length of modern roads in XAUR over
the last 10-20 years, and the potential large increase in maintenance requirements as these
roads start to age. This will require XAUR to improve the efficiency of its maintenance
management and ensure that funding for maintenance is increased along with the higher
demands for maintenance that will result from the increased traffic.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank used its experience during the two previous Xinjiang projects to prepare the
third project. Project design was appropriate, with a good mix of physical components,
including a key road in the XAUR, a significant amount of local roads and well selected
institutional components. Identification of project risks, and mitigation measures, were
correct, and helped ensure that the project would be implemented on track. The
safeguards were covered comprehensively, and included a detailed social assessment.

Compared to the two previous Xinjiang projects, the PAD had an improved approach
aimed to assessing the end results, outputs and indicators of the institutional development
and reform component of the project. The PAD's lack of specific targets regarding
outcome and outputs of the physical components was unusual, but this was remedied by
the inclusion in the loan documentation of a supplemental letter that included the targets.

The experience of supervision missions suggests that at the design stage the Bank could
have been more alerted with the safety issues posed by at-grade crossings of along the
Class I sections of KSH. In addition, the Bank team could have given more attention to



                                            19
the alignment selection of Akasi-Xihexiu road section under the LRRP program, which is
in the remote mountainous area and poses potential technical challenges.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision effort was correct, with a frequency of about 2 missions per year, despite
the fact that there were four different team leaders since project approval until closing,
and multiple changes in other team members as well (only one of the team specialists was
involved with the project through the whole implementation period). A mitigating factor
was that most of the team members were experienced in Bank projects and in China,
which made it easier to understand the project and supervise its implementation.

Supervision missions prepared detailed supervision reports, with a clear identification of
issues, recommendations, and actions to be taken by the implementing agency until the
following mission. A variety of issues were covered, including engineering problems
such as settlement of embankments and the need to improve monitoring, safety problems
such as insufficient measures to ensure safety related to four lane roads, in the connection
with the expressway and at-grade intersections, and some procurement procedures not
compliant with agreed rules.

The mission promptly carried out an economic analysis of the proposed change of
standard for the B-S section of the KSH, and approved the change upon seeing the
positive results provided by the analysis.

In view of the transport sector needs of Xinjiang, the Bank team has given special
attention to road safety, in the areas of technical assistance and awareness raising. As an
example, the Bank co-sponsored with XCCAB a 3-day international seminar on Road
Safety in April 2008. The seminar attracted more than 60 representatives from various
highway administration agencies, design institutes, and traffic policies. XCCAB and the
stakeholders felt that the seminar successfully raised a general awareness of road safety
issues, strengthened the capacity in Xinjiang Province to support sustainable reductions
in road deaths and injuries, transferred safety knowledge to underdeveloped, western
China, and promoted innovative infrastructure solutions to improve the safety condition
in the province.

One weakness may have been a delayed focus on the slow growth of KSH traffic,
understanding the reasons, and requiring XCD to closely monitor traffic trends. Attention
to this issue started about some two years prior to project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The rating for overall Bank
performance is based on the satisfactory quality at entry and the satisfactory quality of


                                             20
supervision. The supervision team paid adequate attention to compliance with the Bank
policies and key issues presented in the transport sector of the province. The advice of the
preparation and supervision team was generally appreciated and followed by the
Borrower.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Xinjiang government provided sustained support to the project, from preparation
to implementation. A weakness was its position regarding the training abroad, since it did
not authorize the necessary funding for completing the overseas tours and training
activities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

During the implementation period, there were many changes of XCD personnel at
management levels. At the XCCAB there were three different directors, and inside its
divisions there was at least the same number of changes. While these changes did not
appear to have a major impact the implementation of the civil works, the KSH as well as
the LRRP, they made it more difficult to make progress on the institutional components
and training.

XCD, with the support of the XUAR's government, was able to increase the funding
allocation for road maintenance during the period of project implementation, an
important factor behind the overall improvement in the quality of the road network that
took place during the project period.

The evaluation of training and dissemination of knowledge showed the importance that
XCD attributed to the training of its staff.

XCD paid good attention to improving road safety. It implemented the pilot road
improvement and carried out a useful safety workshop, well attended by a variety of
stakeholders.

The project closing date had to be extended twice in order to be able to complete the
LRRP and the training program, which pointed to problems in the execution of the
project. However, these two issues are out of XCD's control. The delay of the Akasi-
Xihexiu section of the LRRP program was due to its extreme geological condition and
unprecedented technical difficulties; while the delay and canceling part of the overseas
training was attributed to the overarching political environment during 2008-2009 and
lack of support from Xinjiang government. Despite the continuous effort made by the
XCD and the Bank team, these overseas trainings still could not be implemented. In


                                            21
conclusion, overall, the performance of the XCD, considering the outputs achieved, both
in the physical and the institutional components, merits a satisfactory rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the government and the implementing agency and also considering the project outcome is
satisfactory and is deemed largely to be sustainable.

6. Lessons Learned

Using cross-provincial learning to improve road management. Two of the institutional
development activities under the project, the road maintenance management
improvement and the transport facilitation study, with encouragement from XCD,
investigated, as part of their research, the status and policies in other provinces. For
Xinjiang, a western province and therefore relatively backward compared to coastal or
central provinces, learning from the experience of other provinces is a highly effective
way to design and implement institutional reforms.

Evaluating the impact of improved maintenance during periods of extensive road
construction. During project implementation, XCD increased its funding for road
maintenance, and introduced some improvement in management. The condition of
Xinjiang's road network at the end of the project showed to be significant better than at
the start. However, during the same period, XCD, with its own funds, carried out a
substantial program of improvements of the Xinjiang's road network, which likely had a
significant impact on the condition of the network. Thus, when assessing the
improvement of the network over a period of time, it appears difficult to isolate the
impact of XCD's overall improvement in road maintenance funding and management,
achieved under the project, from the impact of the Xinjiang's program of road
construction. This suggests that a more targeted indicator may need to be designed to
assess the impact of the project, possibly excluding the roads improved outside the Bank
project if this could be done without causing a major increase in the cost of the road
surveys.

Maximizing the impact of the training program. XCD sought to maximize the impact of
the training by requiring trainees to evaluate the various training sessions and by
disseminating inside the agency the knowledge received by the trainees. Past experience
has shown that a good training mix should include both domestic and foreign training.
This experience appears to be well absorbed by the highway agency, but not by other
authorities. Thus, the foreign training included in the XCD-designed training program
could not be fully carried out due to the finance authorities in Xinjiang unwilling to
allocate the required resources from the project loan for this purpose.




                                           22
Diligent geological survey and proper design for lower volume roads are just as
important. Designers generally pay less attention to the design of local roads, limiting
their efforts to a sketchy design much less accurate than the one of the expressway,
thinking these local roads are less important. Experience showed that could lead to major
problems at implementation stage, particularly for the roads in difficult topography and
geology. Despite major efforts and contract variations, this design could simply not be
achieved in one extreme case and led to major cost overruns in another case. Lesson for
future projects is that the design process should be the same for local roads as for the
expressways, in terms of topographical survey, geological investigations and accuracy of
the design.

Improving road safety in roads such as the KSH requires a combination of design and
operational actions. A recurrent problem in the four-lane sections of KSH road is the
dangerous crossing at at-grade intersections. This problem is exacerbated when drivers
move from the access-controlled K-W expressway, to the remainder of the KSH road,
where they are exposed to at-grade intersections. Reducing the traffic risks would require
the highway authorities to ensure that appropriate and repeated signs warn the drivers on
the four-lane roads when they approach crossing traffic in the at-grade intersections,
coupled with explicit safety features shown in the road's engineering drawings.

Wider, more expensive roads, are not necessarily safer. While the upgrading of the BF-
S road section from (the original) two to four lanes-lanes, with the two additional lanes
on a separate alignment, substantially reduced accident risks in the very mountainous
terrain and steep gradients where BF-S road, the same did not happen with the S201 road.
Following a safety audit of S201, a well conceived, safe upgrading to Class II was
designed, with appropriate, safe engineering features. However, a further upgrading to a
4-lane road decided by XCD (not financed under the project), did not benefit from a
focus on safety. The result was a wider, and more expensive to build, but unsafe S201
road.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's own Implementation Completion Report is summarized in Annex 7. The
report finds that the project objectives were met. It lists as essential elements for
achieving the objectives the construction of the KSH, the construction of 640 kilometers
of local roads, training of staff, the procurement of equipment for institutional
strengthening and for operations and maintenance, and the preparation of several studies.
The report notes the good cooperation between the Bank missions and the PEO, as well
as practical recommendations provided by the missions, especially regarding quality of
the works, financial management and institutional strengthening. The Borrower identifies
the following as the main areas where important experience has been acquired thanks to
the project: the strengthening of the XCD's organization; the importance attached to
highway design plans and the introduction of new construction technology; the attention
put to high quality supervision; ensuring contract management in accordance with FIDIC
terms.


                                            23
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                                  Percentage of
         Components                 Estimate (USD       Estimate (USD
                                                                                   Appraisal
                                       millions)           millions)
 KSH-Civil Works                         211.39              278.52                   131
 KSH: E&M Works                             7.62                2.81                   37
 KSH: Service Facilities                  13.75               11.20                    81
 KSH: Supervision                           8.42                8.87                  105
 KSH: Land acquisition &
                                            14.39                18.84                131
resettlement
 Local Road Rehab Program
                                            41.80                51.84                124
(LRRP)
 Institutional Strengthening and
                                              0.86                1.38                160
Training
 Traffic Safety                               2.71                3.50                129
 Road Maintenance
Management Improvement                        0.62                0.10                 16
(RMMI)
 Road Transport Services
                                              0.16                0.06                 38
Information System (RTSIS)
 Toll Study                                   0.08                0.06                 75
 Strengthening of Laboratories
                                            11.65                13.77                118
 and O&M Services
                                           313.45
          Total Baseline Cost                                390.95                   124
Physical Contingencies                      13.04              -
Price Contingencies                          6.21              -
          Total Project Costs              332.70            390.95                   117
Front-end fee                                1.50              1.50                   100
  Total Financing Required                 334.20            392.45                   117
Source: XCD.

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                               184.20      238.81      130%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        150.00           150.00         100%
and Development




                                               25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


      Component                   Output                     Comments

                         Construction of KSH Highway

Kuitun-Wusu              18 km, expressway
Wusu-Bole Fork           229 km, four lane (Class
                         1)
Bole Fork-SailimuHu      55.6 km, four lane       Originally designed as a 2-lane
                         (Class 1)                (Class 2), was upgraded to 4-
                                                  lane (Class 1) in view of traffic
                                                  safety problems. Original lanes
                                                  were kept for uphill, new,
                                                  longer section was designed for
                                                  downhill.
Total length             302.6 km                 Whole road opened to traffic in
                                                  November 2006.

                      Rehabilitation of Local Roads (LRRP)

Total length             620 km                    Four out of the 12 roads
                                                   initially identified in the PAD
                                                   were substituted by 4 new
                                                   roads.
8 original roads                                   Completed
Santai-Quitai            34 km, Class II
Mulei-Tuyuantun-Quitai   55 km, Class II
Bayitouhai-Tekese-       84 km, Class II
Zaosu
Awati-Akesu              59 km, Class II
Baicheng-Yuergun         30 km, Class II
Yuepuhu-Tazihong         48 km, Class II
Keriya-Pishan            45 km, Class II
Jiashe-Sule              23 km, Class II
4 new roads
Yuepuhu-Yinhgjsha        68 km, Class III
Tuoli-Tachakou           36 km, Class II
Akasi-Xihexiu            22 km, Class IV
Cele-Bositan Xian        136 km, Class III




                                           26
                              Capacity Building
       Component                Output                     Comments
Institutional          1,036 persons and 996    Overall training outputs largely
Strengthening/Training man-months were          exceeded PAD estimates (817
                       trained, divided into:   persons and 762 man-months)
                       In Xinjiang: 543/555
                       In China: 410/380
                       Overseas: 39/39
                       Overseas study
                       tours:44/22


Studies and Technical
Assistance
Road Maintenance         Completed. Report        The main output was a
Management               covering 2005-2007       sustained improvement of the
Improvement (RMMI)       submitted to the Bank    road network condition.
                                                  Periodic reporting on road
                                                  condition by XCD units .
                                                  CPMS used.
Equipment Asset          Completed.               System is in operation and
Management System                                 helping XCD make decisions
(EAMS)                                            on equipment management.
                                                  Further optimization being
                                                  considered by XCD, mainly to
                                                  improve network connections
                                                  and increase system speed.
Road Safety              Safety audit report
                         completed.
Toll road study          Completed                Results used as an input for the
                                                  setting of toll rates.
Transport Facilitation   Completed.               Recommendations will be used
Study                                             for preparing Xinjiang logistics
                                                  development plan.
Equipment for            44 maintenance
Institutional            equipment sets
Strengthening and        procured.
Operations and
Maintenance




                                          27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The ex-ante economic evaluation of the project done at appraisal covered the following
two project components: (i) construction of the 302.6 km Kuitun ­ Sailimuhu Highway
(KSH); and (ii) upgrading of twelve rural roads (total 603 km) included in the Local
Road Rehabilitation Program (LRRP). The ex-post economic evaluation covers the KSH
construction (85% of the project civil works costs) following the same economic
methodology applied at appraisal that computes project benefits in terms of reduction in
vehicle operating costs, travel time costs and maintenance costs over a 24 year evaluation
period at a 12% discount rate.

For evaluation purposes, KSH has been divided into three sections. The table below
shows the appraisal estimated lengths and the actual lengths for each road section,
indicating an actual overall distance savings of 3%.

                                  KSH Road Sections Length
                   Appraisal Estimate       Actual                Actual            Actual
                   Length of the New Length of the New         Length of the       Distance
                                                                                   Savings
Section                Road (km)           Road (km)         Existing Road (km)      (%)
Kuitun - Wusu            18.0                18.0                   18.5             3%
Wusu - Bole              229.0               229.0                  235.5            3%
Bole - Sailimuhu          55.6               55.6                   58.0             4%
Total                    302.6               302.6                  312.0            3%

Section Kuitun ­ Wusu was improved to expressway standard and sections Wusu ­ Bole
and Bole ­ Sailimuhu were improved to Class I standard. The table below shows the
estimated actual construction costs per road section. The actual overall construction cost
per km is 7.4 Million RMB per km that is around 18% higher than the appraisal estimate.
The construction period was defined as four years at appraisal. The actual construction
period was five years and the actual overall distribution of the road work costs during the
construction period was 7% in year 1, 28% in year 2, 33% in year 3, 29% in year 4, and
3% in year 5.
                         KSH Road Sections Actual Construction Costs
                                       Actual               Actual
                                    Construction         Construction
                                    cost (Million        cost (Million
                   Section             RMB)               RMB/km)
                   Kuitun -
                   Wusu                  184                 10.2
                   Wusu - Bole          1,642                 7.2
                   Bole -
                   Sailimuhu             416                  7.5
                   Total                2,242                 7.4

The table below shows the projected KSH traffic in 2009 estimated at appraisal and the
actual traffic in 2009 that shows that the actual traffic in 2009 is around 44% less than the
one estimated traffic at appraisal on the Kuitun ­ Wusu expressway section and 33% less


                                             28
on the Bole - Sailimuhu Class I section. On the Wusu ­ Bole Class I section, the actual
traffic is around 10% more than the one estimated at appraisal.

                                 KSH Road Sections Traffic
                                    Appraisal Estimate        Actual
                                       KSH Traffic         KSH Traffic
                  Section            in 2009 (AADT)      in 2009 (AADT)
                  Kuitun - Wusu           6,514               3,657
                  Wusu - Bole             2,894               3,170
                  Bole - Sailimuhu        3,541               2,362

The ex-post economic evaluation was done by first replicating the appraisal economic
evaluation results on an Excel based economic evaluation model using road user costs
computed with the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM- 4)
relationships and considering all the input assumptions presented on the appraisal
economic evaluation annex. The ex-post economic evaluation was then done updating the
main inputs of the model to reflect actual values. The ex-post economic evaluation
considers: (i) actual lengths, (ii) actual construction costs, (iii) actual construction cost
distribution, and (iv) actual KSH traffic in 2009. The traffic projections for 2010-2015
and 2016-2022 adopted at appraisal (4.2% and 2.3% per year respectively) were
maintained at the ex-post evaluation.

The table below presents the ex-post economic evaluation results that show that the
actual Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the KSH construction is 20.4%,
which is similar to the appraisal estimate (19.6%). The ex-post EIRR of the Kuitun ­
Wusu section is lower than the appraisal estimates (20.6% reduced to 16.0%) due to
lower actual traffic observed in 2009 and the higher construction costs. The ex-post
EIRR of the Bole - Sailimuhu section is lower than the appraisal estimates (31.1%
reduced to 17.2%) due to lower actual traffic observed in 2009 and the much higher
construction costs due to the fact that this section was improved to Class I standard
instead of Class II standard as estimated at appraisal. The ex-post EIRR of the Wusu ­
Bole section, that accounts for 73% of the total KSH civil work costs, is higher than the
appraisal estimate (18.2% increased to 21.9%) due the higher actual traffic compared to
the projected traffic at appraisal that compensates the higher construction costs. Thus, the
overall ex-post EIRR of the KSH is satisfactory despite the higher construction costs.

                                 KSH Economic Evaluation
                                         Appraisal Estimate        Actual
                                               EIRR                EIRR
                  Section                       (%)                 (%)
                  Kuitun - Wusu                 20.6                16.0
                  Wusu - Bole                   18.2                21.9
                  Bole - Sailimuhu              31.1                17.2
                  Total                         19.6                20.4




                                             29
The economic evaluation done at appraisal of twelve rural roads (total 603 km) included
in the LRRP considered an average construction cost per kilometer of 0.67 Million RMB
per km to upgrade the roads from Class III to Class II standard and yielded and overall
EIRR of 32.2%. The actual average construction cost per kilometer of the rural roads
included on the LRRP is 0.90 Million RMB per km, representing a cost increase of 34%
with relation to the appraisal estimates. The rural roads were improved to an asphalt
concrete standard with an average width of 8.0 meters and surface thickness between 3 to
5 centimeters. The ex-post economic evaluation of the LRRP roads yields an overall
EIRR of 25.7%, taking into account the higher construction costs, which is still
satisfactory.




                                           30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                                      Financial
Chau-Ching Shen           Sr. Finance Officer                 CTRFC
                                                                      Management
                                                                      Social
Daniel Gibson             Social Development Specialist       EASEN
                                                                      Development
                                                                      Procurement
Dawei Yang                Procurement Specialist              EAPPR
                                                                      Assessment
Gregory Guldin            Consultant                          EASEN   Anthropology
                                                                      Economic/Financial
Han-Kang Yen              Research Analyst                    EASTR
                                                                      Analysis
Hoi-chan Nguyen           Sr. Counsel                         LEGEN   Legal
                                                                      Task Team Leader/
                          Sr. Highway Engineer/
Jacques M. Tollie                                             EAPCO   Engineering/
                          Task Team Leader
                                                                      Institutional
Margaret Png              Sr. Counsel                         LEGEN   Legal
                                                                      Administrative
Maria Luisa Juico         Program Assistant                   EASTR
                                                                      Support
Naoya Tsukamoto           Sr. Environmental Engineer          EASEN   Environment
Nina Eejima               Sr. Counsel                         LEGEN   Legal
                                                                      Institutional
Ningyuan Li               Consultant                          EASCS
                                                                      Strengthening
                                                                      Road Management
Ole Sylte                 Consultant                          EASTR
                                                                      Systems
                                                                      Institutional
Setty Pendakur            Consultant                          EASTR
                                                                      Development
                          Lead Financial Management
Simon Bradbury                                                CTRFC Disbursement
                          Specialist
                                                                    Social
Yasin Ashuri              Consultant                          EASEN
                                                                    Development
Yi-Ling Liu               Finance Analyst                     CTRDM Disbursement
                                                                    Financial
Yu Zhuo                   Finance Analyst                     CTRDM
                                                                    Management
Zhefu Liu                 Sr. Social Development Specialist   EASCS Resettlement
Supervision/ICR
                                                                      Former Task Team
                          Former Task Team Leader/                    Leader/
Alain M. Dube                                                 EASTE
                          Consultant                                  Engineering/
                                                                      Institutional
Chongwu Sun               Sr. Environmental Specialist        EASCS   Environment
Christopher J. De Serio   Operations Analyst                  EASIN   Procurement
                                                                      Highway
Christopher R. Bennett    Sr. Transport. Specialist           EASNS
                                                                      Engineering


                                            31
Dawei Yang          Procurement Specialist              EAPPR Procurement
Emily Dubin         Junior Professional Associate       EASIN Technical Support
                                                              Task Team Leader/
                    Task Team Leader/
Fei Deng                                                EASIN Engineering/
                    Transport Specialist
                                                              Institutional
Jacques M. Tollie   Consultant/Procurement Specialist   EAPCO Procurement
                                                              Highway
Jean-Marie Braun    Consultant                          ECSSD
                                                              Engineering
Jianjun Guo         Procurement Specialist              EAPPR Procurement
Jingrong He         Procurement Analyst                 EAPPR Procurement
Marcelo Donolo      Procurement Specialist              OPCPR Procurement
                                                              Administrative
Maria Luisa Juico   Program Assistant                   EASIN
                                                              Support
Mingjing Zhang      Team Assistant                      EACCF Technical Support
Naoya Tsukamoto     Sr. Environmental Engineer          EASEN Environment
                                                              Institutional
Ningyuan Li         Consultant                          EASCS
                                                              Strengthening
Peng Wang           Junior Professional Associate       EASIN Technical Support
                                                              Financial
Ruifeng Yuan        Financial Management Assistant      EACCF
                                                              Management
Sivalingam Milton   Procurement Assistant               EASIN Procurement
Wen Pan             Consultant                          EASTE Highway Engineer
Xiaoke Zhai         Transport Specialist                EASCS Highway Engineer
                    Program Assistant/
Yan Zhang                                               EACCF Procurement
                    Procurement Specialist
                    Sr. Financial Management                  Financial
Yi Geng                                                 EAPFM
                    Specialist                                Management
                                                              Financial
Yi-Ling Liu         Finance Analyst                     CTRDM
                                                              Management
                    Disbursement Officer/Financial            Financial
Youhua Yu                                               EACCF
                    Management Specialist                     Management




                                      32
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                10.4
  FY00                                       9                        34.3
  FY01                                      37                       207.0
  FY02                                      34                       216.00
  FY03                                      11                        42.9
                          Total:            91                       500.2
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                       9                        54.7
  FY04                                      14                        80.6
  FY05                                      10                        74.7
  FY06                                      14                        77.4
  FY07                                       9                        71.3
  FY08                                      10                        74.0
  FY09                                      10                        73.1
  FY10                                       9                        36.8
                          Total:            85                       542.7




                                       33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The KSH and two of the LRRP roads (Yuepuhu-Yinjisha, and Cele-Bostan) required
resettlement activities:
     KSH connects Urumqi-Kuitun Expressway (UKH) in the east and the completed
        road in west at Salimu Lake. It affected totally 4 cities and counties, 3 State farms,
        11 towns and townships and 21 villages.
     Yuepuhu-Yinjisha road section impacted 22 villages and 7 townships of three
        counties.
     Cele-Bostan road section connects G315 and Cele Town in north. The road passes
        through 22 villages.
The LRRP resettlement was minor since these roads are narrow and most of the
improvement works were on the existing alignment.

Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were prepared and carried out. In order to prepare the
resettlement action plan, the Project Execution Office (PEO) and the affected counties,
cities and villages along the roads established resettlement planning groups. The groups
went to the affected villages and carried out detailed surveys. The resettlement site
selection was made by villages and the re-settlers.

The preparation of RAP and implementation of resettlement works followed China's
laws and regulations and the Bank's OD4.30. All changes during the implementation
were reviewed and approved by the Bank.

Compensation standards were determined following PEO consultation and negotiation
with each county involved.

After resettlement, the houses of the displaced families have been improved in terms of
both size of the residential area and quality of the structure.

Independent monitoring was undertaken by East China Survey and Design Institute and
Xinjiang Academy of Social Science. A Resettlement Post Evaluation Report was
prepared upon completion of the resettlement activities, and is the main source of this
annex.

KSH

Preparation of the RAP was started in 2000 and completed in 2002.




                                             34
Land acquisition and resettlement for the construction of the KSH was carried out in
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Some variations occurred between
planned and actual values, as shown in the table below:

                                   Planned (RAP)          Actual           Increase (%)
 Land acquisition, (000 mu)             20.0               20.0                 0.0
 Of which, cultivated                   1.95               4.29               220.0
 Houses removed (000 sq m)             33.99              35.90                 5.6
 Households removed (units)             145                196                 35.2
 Population affected                    579                748                 29.2
 Total cost (million Yuan)              53.8              120.0                23.0

The total land acquisition estimate in the PAD was correct, except for the classification
the land. Agricultural land turned out to be 8.6 percent of total land, compared with 3.9
percent in the RAP. The variation of households removed and population affected was
mainly due to minor design changes in the KSH mainline or ramps. The increase in the
amount of agricultural land is the main factor behind the higher overall cost of
resettlement, other factors being the increase in the number of households removed and
higher payment for compensation than stipulated in the RAP standards.

All affected houses and affiliated facilities were compensated higher than the standards
specified in RAP and materials from old houses belonged to the owners. The location of
house plot and distribution plan was decided by full consultation between re-settlers with
local governments and resettlement offices. The old houses were demolished and rebuilt
by the owners and special assistance was given by resettlement offices to the poor
households in re-building new houses. All re-settlers have moved into new houses in time.
Condition of new houses was much improved. Brick houses increased from 52% before
resettlement to 81% after resettlement and per capita living area increased by 12%. The
total compensation paid was 11,501.46 million RMBY and which is 64,533 million
RMBY higher than RAP budget.

The original schools, hospitals, shops and social service facilities are still available for
the re-settlers. The distance from new residential area to social service facilities is
basically the same as that before resettlement.

Livelihood improved after resettlement. A sample of 100 households showed significant
increase in income, production facilities and household equipment. Owners of 4-wheel
tractors increased from 40 households to 67 households and the owners of full set of tools
increased from 25 households to 42 households. Ownership of motorcycle and color TV
increased by 18% and 21% relatively, with a corresponding decrease of bicycles and
black-white TVs.
LRRP

The Yuepuhu-Yingjsha road required land acquisition for a total of 1154.24mu. 149
households and 864 people were affected by the project. The compensation agreement
was signed in Feb. 2006. According to external and internal survey, all actual
compensation was higher than the standards specified in RAP and paid in full. The area


                                              35
of new houses is 30% higher than old houses and per capita increased by 8%. Brick
house was increased from 33% to 86%. Totally 27.2mu farmland was acquired from 8
villages. Land compensation was used by the villages to reclaim 500mu of land and build
a 7km channel in last 2 years. Production and livelihoods of re-settlers have restored and
improved. Average annual business income and annual per capita pure income increased
by about 10% annually from 2004 to 2006. Since compensation standards is relatively
higher and more items were added, the actual compensation was 4.6871 million RMBY
and which was 1.9738 million RMBY more than RAP.

For Cele-Bositan road, the planned land acquisition was 2855.72mu including 0.34 mu
farmland, 8.08 mu forest land, 2.23 mu construction land, and 313.5 m2 various houses. 7
households and 32 people were affected. In early June 2008, compensation agreement
was signed between PEO and County Government and 0.3344 million RMBY was paid
to County government. By Sept. 16, 2008, all 69 re-settlers signed compensation
agreement with County Government and compensation was paid to them.




                                           36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR3

A. Project Objectives

The Proposed expressway is an important part of the National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) as well as of the main East-West corridor in Xinjiang. As part of the NTHS, the
KSH will connect Kuitun (the end of the Urumqi-Kuitun Expressway financed under the
second Xinjiang Highway Project) to Sailimu Lake (about 120km from the border with
Kazakhstan). This 312 km long section represents the remaining gap of the NTHS yet to
be completed on the 1430 km long stretch of the National Highway 312 traversing
Xinjiang. It is a high grade highway with large engineering scale and investment and high
technical level in Xinjiang financed by the World Bank loan and managed with
international FIDIC terms.

B. The Project consists of the following parts:

(1) The total length of KSH is 302.6km, which includes the following three sections:

         Kuitun-Wusu: 18km expressway;
         Wusu-Bole Fork: 229km Class I highway; and
         Bole Fork-Sailimuhu: 55.6km Class 2 highway.

Class I highway and expressway are all full four lane highways, and full closed
interchanges.

(2) Local Roads Rehabilitation Program (LRRP)

The primary objective of the local roads components is to assure that in poor counties
villages have primary road access and townships are well connected to the provincial and
national highway system. Therefore, the component was focused on road links between
the major townships and the provincial and national highways in the rural areas of
Xinjiang. This components includes 12 links with total length of 640km, the
implementation period was scheduled for 4 years.

(3) Institutional Strengthening

Institutional Strengthening includes the following three sub-components:

           Institutional Strengthening and training




3
   Subsequent to the preparation of its ICR, the Borrower sent the Bank several updates, especially on traffic and other indicators to
allow assessing the outcome with the most recent data available.




                                                                  38
       Studies and technical assistance: road management and maintenance improvement
       (RMMI), road safety, improved management of toll highways, improved transport
       services.
       Equipment for Institutional Strengthening and Operational and Maintenance

C. Execution Agency of the Project

Xinjiang Communications Construction Administration Bureau (XCCAB) (it was called
Xinjiang High Grade Highway Administration Bureau before its institutional reform in
2005) is the legal reprehensive and client of the Project, acting as execution agency of KS
high grade highway. XCCAB is responsible for tendering and procurement,
implementation and management, equipment procurement works of the project. Project
Execution Office of KSH was established under the management of XCCAB to be
responsible for the specific construction management of the project on site.

D. Achievement of the Project Objectives

Through successful implementation of the project, the following objectives were
achieved:

(1) KS High Grade Highway with total length of 302.6km had been built;
(2) Local roads with total length of 640km had been built
(3) Trainings in the field of expressway operation and maintenance, etc. were
    completed;
(4) Equipment for institutional strengthening and operation and maintenance were
    procured; and
(5) Studies including road safety, improved management of toll highways, improved
    transport services were conducted.

E. Implementation of the Project

Construction of the Kuitun-Sailimuhu High Grade Highway

KS Expressway was divided into 22 contract sections. Contract No. 1 to Contract No.15
are civil works, Contract No. 16 is traffic engineering, Contract No. 17 to Contract No.
22 are building and maintenance facilities. Highway civil works construction was
commenced on July 1, 2002 and opened to the traffic in November 2006. The
procurement type for Contract No. 1 to Contract No. 16 was International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and Contract No. 17 to Contract No. 19 was National Competitive
Bidding (NCB).




                                            39
Local Roads Rehabilitation Program

The local roads with total length of 640km implemented in four years were all procured
by NCB.

Among the recommended 12 local roads during project appraisal, four roads included
1) Tacheng-Emin; 2) Zeketai-Nalati; 3) Qiaoerma-Zhongfengchang; 4) Fuhai-State Farm
had already been rehabilitated by domestic fund. Therefore, another four roads were
newly increased to replace the above four, which are: 1) Yuepuhu-Yinjisha; 2) Tuoli-
Tachakou; 3) Akazi-Xihexiu; 4) Cele-Bositan Xiang. The improper design of some road
section caused large amount of variations during implementation.

F. Environmental Protection and Supervision

Construction of Xinjiang III Highway Project (Kuitun-Sailimuhu Highway) was
commenced in July 2002. In order to understand the impacts on environmental during
construction period and operation period, timely propose the correspondent measures to
minimize or eliminate adverse impacts caused by construction, entrusted by Project
Execution Office of Regional High Grade Highway Administration Bureau, Xinjiang
Environmental Monitoring Center undertook environmental monitoring tasks during
construction period and operation period of KS Highway between July 2002 to July 2006.
In accordance with impacts of sensitive factors of people along the KS highway line and
relevant content of Environmental Impacts Assessment Report of KS Highway, after on
site investigation and check, the environmental monitoring spots along the line,
monitoring contents and environmental monitoring implementation plan were determined.

During construction period, as required in EIA, the air, water and acoustic environments
were monitored along the line every month in subgrade construction period in 2003 and
in pavement construction period in second, third and fourth quarters of 2004.During trial
operation period, entrusted regional monitoring station conducted monitoring to water, air
and acoustic environments.

The Environmental Impacts Assessment Report (EIA) and Environmental Protection
Action Plan (EAP) were strictly implemented during construction period. Quarries were
mostly installed on Gobi wasteland area, and strictly controlled the scope and disposal
sites. In the mean of construction of this project, the existing waste materials were
handled. Upon on site investigation, there was no serious damage of ecological
environment, such as large amount of fill or cut had taken place. The improved drainage
works were implemented in inclined plain areas, which could properly dredge runoff.
After construction, the construction sites had been cleared and trimmed; upon on site
investigation, both sides of highway were basically restored. Planting was implemented
in toll stations and service areas. Planting was also carried out at two sides of some road
sections passing through urban area by local government. Environmental protection signs
were installed in Shashanzi, Jinghe, etc. Grassland in Sailimu lake scene area had been
restored already. The removed top soil had been used for site restoration.




                                            40
G. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

Kuisai Highway Project planned to acquire 20017.4 mu of land, and actually acquired
20017.4 mu ; among which, planned cultivated land 1953.7 mu, actual cultivated land
4278.02mu; it planned to remove households of 33987.58m2, and actually removed
various house 35899.9135 m2; it planned to fell various kinds of trees 193,029, actually
felled 193,029. Main reason for the difference between actual amount and planned
amount is design variation. The land acquisition and resettlement for Kuisai Highway
Project has been completed according to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP
was completed by December 2002. Generally speaking, RAP was implemented smoothly.
After resettlement, the houses of the all displaced families have been improved at
different degrees both on area and structure of house. In addition, through efforts made
by displaced people themselves, and supports given by relevant departments, the living
standards of displaced families were all improved, generally exceeded original level.
Regarding the land acquisition compensation standards for the local roads: all were
compensated with upper limits of regional stipulation. Along the 12 local roads , the
national level poor counties are Jiashi, Shule, Cele, Yecheng, Yingjisha, Yuepuhu, Pishan,
Tuoli; the regional level poor county is Mulei; no poverty level counties are Awati,
Tekesi, Baicheng and Qitai.

The average annual income of people in villages of Kuitun-Sailimuhu highway before
and after land acquisition was:

The project route passed through 4 counties and cities, 3 state farms, 11 townships, 21
administrative villages; the average income per person in 2001 was RMB 2285 Yuan, in
2005 was RMB 4108 Yuan, a 79.8% increase in 4 years. The objective of economic
development and farmers income increase was achieved.

The average annual income of people in villages of Yuepuhu-Yingjisha highway section
before and after land acquisition was:

The project route passed through 3 counties and cities, 7townships, 22 administrative
villages; the average income per person in 2003 was RMB 1184 Yuan, in 2008 was RMB
2610 Yuan, a120.4% increase in 5 years. This road brought significant social and
economic effects.

The average annual income of people in villages of Cele-Bositan Xiang highway section
before and after land acquisition was:

The project route passed through 4 townships, 22 administrative villages; the average
income per person in 2005 was RMB 2326 Yuan, in 2007 was RMB 2687 Yuan, a15.5%
increase in 2 years. The average income of people along the line had relatively fast
growth every year.




                                           41
H. Institutional Development and Reform Plan (IDRP)

In recent years, according to the unified arrangement by state council and autonomous
region, the Xinjiang Communication Department carried out institutional reform actively
from the following aspects:

(1) Change government function, realize division of politic and enterprise. The
administrative management function of XCD should focus on "overall planning, policy
guiding, macro controlling, law and regulation monitoring, service coordinating". The
XCD should disconnect itself with enterprises, and no longer directly manage enterprises.
Instead, it should let enterprises take their place on market, and transfer the specific
affairs and functions which should be undertaken by the enterprises, and minimize the
government's specific approval rights, and control whole sector through information.

(2) Establish simple, unified and effective management system; less levels among
transportation management agencies, smooth relation, reduce personnel, optimize
structure, and improve efficiency.

(3) Smooth relationship between rights and responsibilities, make clear division of rights
and responsibilities, minimize intersecting of functions.

(4) Be practical and realistic, adapt to local conditions, properly and scientifically handle
the connection of functions of each level transportation management departments.

(5) Administrate according to law, enhance the transportation administrative management
to be more systematize, normalize and institutionalize; transfer from administrative
management way to administrative according to law. In the mean time, strengthen
transport administrative law enforcement team, improve their quality, as well as enhance
management and supervision of law enforcement works.

The institutional reform of XCD and its units were completed in 2006. The major
functions of XCD and its units were further enriched and reinforced after adjustment, and
rationalized highway construction and operation maintenance system, improved
management organizations and the way of management, achieved objectives of
retrenched staff, simplified organs, and high efficiency.

I. Institutional Strengthening

Institutional Strengthening

Staff training under XHP III consists of institutional strengthening training, supervision
training and highway safety training. Trainings include workshops and study tours in
Xinjiang, other places in China and abroad. The total expected trainings 817 persons and
762 man-months. The estimated cost is RMBY 8,513,100 (equivalent to USD 1.051
million), of which, foreign currency amounts to USD 900,000.




                                             42
Implementation Progress: By August 31, 2009, the accumulated completion of the
training component was: 1036persons/996man-month, respectively equivalent to 126%
and 130% of the plan. The actual completed amount is RMBY 1,896,784.37and USD
646,066, equivalent to USD 925,005, accounts to 88% of the total planned amount.

Total of 16 training and study tour groups were arranged under overseas training program
and commenced in February 2003. Up to August 30, 2009, 11 groups were implemented,
including 5 trainings (30days/training) and 6 study tours (15days/tour). The abroad
training and study tour were implemented in the following fields: highway supervision;
highway management system, laws and regulation; highway planning and design;
highway transportation economy adjustment and planning; expressway toll management;
highway maintenance; administration of maintenance equipment, construction
management information system; public management; highway transportation
management; expressway operation and management.

Domestic training and regional courses: the training covered the topics of environmental
protection, highway engineering supervision, financial management, human resource,
project management, etc. By August 31, 2009, the accumulated progress is 953persons
/935 man-months and the actual completed amount is RMBY 1,896,784.37.

      Planned Persons and Man/Month          Actual Persons and Man/Month
 Within      Within    Oversea Overseas Within     Within     Oversea Overseas
 Xinjiang    China     Training  Study  Xinjiang    China     Training  Study
                                 Tours                                  Tours
 400/390 296/284        55/55    66/33  543/555 410/380 39/39          44/22
      817 persons and 762 man/month         1036 persons and 996 man/month


Studies and Technical Assistance: Road Maintenance Management Improvement
(RMMI), Road Safety, Improved Management of Toll Highways and Improved Transport
Services.

Road Maintenance Management Improvement (RMMI): The report of"3-Year
Maintenance Plan and the Lowest Maintenance Standards in 2005-2007" has been
completed by using of the CPMS extended by MOF and submitted to the Bank. In
September 2005, Dr. Pan Yuli came to Xinjiang and discussed the relevant contents of
the component. This component progresses smoothly and realized the objectives.
Each maintenance units of Xinjiang conducted periodical inspection and maintenance and
input the collected data to the computer and transmit the data to Maintenance Division of
Highway Administration Bureau by internet for summary, prepare annual or multi-year
road maintenance and rehabilitation plan according to the result of CPMS and submit it to
XCD for approval. XCD generally refers to CPMS results, and according to current
budget, social impacts and road safety, works out annual and multi-year construction plan.
The large and medium size maintenance plans were prepared according to the operation
result of CPMS.



                                           43
Equipment Asset Management System (EAMS): A Contract for developing the
Equipment Asset Management System (EAMS) has been signed with the John Emery
Geotechnical Limited Company in November 2004. The installation, trial operation and
staff training had all been completed and the users' manual was submitted in December
2005. At present, the system was used in all management divisions of Xinjiang
Communications Construction Administration Bureau.
Although running speed of the system is relatively slow, it provides assistance and
convenience for equipment assets management. The traditional equipment assets
management method is still in use to make up insufficiency of the system. Along with the
increasing of equipment asset storage amount, it's planed to optimize the system in future
to achieve the expected objective.

Road Safety: According to the economic development of Xinjiang and the requirements
of the adjusted National Communication Program, XCD decided to upgrade the
rehabilitation of S201 from Class II to Class I in the early of 2003. Therefore, it was
redesigned and the designed was completed in the next half of 2004. Construction
commenced after the design and completed in November 2006. Accordingly, the
monitoring assessment of highway safety demonstration of rehabilitated S201 has to be
postponed.PEO has mandated Tongji University to conduct a revised Safety Appraisal
after Implementation. The Safety Appraisal was completed and a series of
recommendations were prepared. The PEO submitted these recommendations and the
TOR of the Safety Appraisal to the Bank for review by April 15, 2007; the Bank
provided their comments by May 9, 2007. Monitoring was commenced in June 2007 and
continued up to the end of the 2008. The Safety Audit Report for the operation stage of
the Project was finally completed.

For local road, the cartoon cards and manuals of road safety were prepared and
distributed to schools and villagers around to educate people to pay high attention to
traffic safety. The signs were installed nearby schools to remind people pay attention to
safety.

Improved management of toll highways: PEO authorized Xinjiang Highway Survey,
Planning, Design & Research Institute to undertake the study. The final Toll Study was
completed and approved by the World Bank in May 2004. The XCCAB made the final
acceptance for the study on November 24, 2007 by inviting the relevant specialists.
The toll rate of this project was approved by people's government of autonomous region
based on result of above mentioned toll study.

Improved Transport Services: Major suggestions proposed in this study were approved
by decision make and will be the basis of "Xinjiang Logistics Development Plan" under
general guidelines of "National Highway Transportation Hubs Plan". The result of the
study is used for construction of freight terminals in ADB financed Korle-Kuqa
Expressway Project, which is under construction currently.




                                            44
 J. Equipment for Institutional Strengthening and Operation and Maintenance

 Equipment for Institutional Strengthening: equipment for institutional strengthening for
 KSH to be procured according to the PAD, total estimated cost is USD 3.64 million, the
 actual paid amount is RMB 2,775,529.

 Equipment for operation and maintenance, road network and institutional strengthening
 for KSH to be procured according to the PAD, total estimated cost is USD 10.81million.
 The actual paid amount through ICB is RMB 61,270,000. In additional, a batch of
 maintenance equipment were procured through NCB with total price of RMB20,156,500.

 K. Achievement of objectives/components

 Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industrial (GOVAI) of KSH Mainline and
 Local Roads Rehabilitation Project

 Improvement of the KSH mainline and local road, had pushed forward the economic
 development along the line, improved the accessibility of the residents along the line, and
 advanced the Xinjiang's economic development.

 Highway Financing of Xinjiang

 The investment for highway sector has overall growth since 2002. In total investment,
 5% to 10% was used for road maintenance and rehabilitation, while most funds were
 used for new constructions. From 2002 to 2008, the maintenance investment has
 relatively steady increase, since 2005 the investment to new construction works was
 maintain in same level. Specific details are as follows:


                                       Maintenance and                    Total         % of
                                                         Growth Rate
            New         Growth Rate     Rehabilitation                 Investment    Maintenance
                                                             of
Year    Construction      of New                                                    Investment of
                                          million        Maintenance    million
       (million Yuan)   Construction                                                    Total
                                          Yuan           Investment      Yuan        Investment
2002      4,500.10                         534.69                       5,034.79       10.6%
2003     8,015.19          78%             546.17           2.3%        8,561.36        6.4%
2004     11,012.44         37%             603.15          10.4%       11,615.59        5.2%
2005     11,092.97         0.7%            620.72            3%        11,713.69        5.3%
2006     10,000.51        -9.8%            687.98          10.83%      10,688.49        6.4%
2007     10,032.65        0.3%             737.00          7.13%       10,769.65        6.8%
2008     11,766.53        17.3%            783.81           6.5%       12,550.34        6.3%




                                                45
Traffic Accident Fatality Rate

            Outcome Indicator                      Base Year 2002      Target Year 2008
 Traffic Safety: number of traffic accident        22/10,000 veh.        11/10,000 veh.
 Fatalities rate/10,000veh.

Along with the improving of the road condition, the traffic accident rate shows a decrease.
However, the traffic accident is relatively serious within a year after the KSH newly
opened to the traffic due to small traffic volume, better road condition and drivers exceed
the speed limits. Therefore, we installed additional road safety facilities at the urban road
section along KSH to warn the drivers and pedestrian to pay more attention to traffic
safety.

In addition, the road safety audit result made on a section of S201 (provincial road
Karamay-Hutubi) shows that improvement of the black spots reduced accident rate and
improved road safety.

Traffic Volume and Travel Time along KS Corridor

                                Traffic Volume of KS Mainline

        Outcome Indicator                  Base Year 2000               Target Year2008
                                      converted traffic volume      converted traffic volume
                                        ( number of veh/day)          ( number of veh/day)

 Daily Average Traffic Volume                      7889                      6406
   of KS Corridor

The traffic on KSH is significantly below the appraisal estimate and shows a decrease
trend since traffic opening. The main reasons for such a gap:

       One of the main connecting roads at Guozigou has been under construction since
       2006 causing vehicles to take an inconvenient detour in order to access KSH; this
       has significantly impacted the traffic from Guozigou to Sailimuhu.
       Long distance vehicles are upgraded to a larger capacity than what was noted
       during Appraisal (from an average of eight tons to 30 tons). Therefore, the
       number of vehicles needed to transfer the same amount of commodity is
       decreased significantly. In addition, overloading remains an important issue
       which further amplifies the transportation capacity on a single vehicle.
       In the past few years, smaller sized freight vehicles have changed their travel
       behaviour from inter-city to intra-city as the latter generates more profit.
       Therefore, the KSH lost some of its smaller sized freight traffic. The enforcement
       on overloading vehicles is much more effective on trunk highways such as KSH,
       so many freight vehicles would choose to avoid using this network.



                                              46
       Since 2006, the central government directed local governments to provide paved
       road to all villages, which further diverted the traffic from KSH.
       Since January 2008, the central government removed toll collection on highways
       of Class II or below. This policy reduced the attractiveness of toll roads, such as
       KSH.
       The rate at which the road network expands and improves is unprecedented.
       Vehicles now have many more options for travel into the Province, which could
       not have been foreseen at Appraisal.

We must draw above lessons from this Project and to be more complete, more accurate
and more realistic in our future traffic volume forecasting and highway engineering
feasibility studies.
                           Daily Average Traffic Volume of LRRP

           Outcome Indicator                     Base Year 2000              Target Year2008
                                            converted traffic volume     converted traffic volume
                                              ( number of veh/day)         ( number of veh/day)

 S303 Jimusar-Santai (Santai Station)                 2833                          5290
 S303 Mulei-Qitai (Wumachang Station)                 2405                          6889
 S311 Jiashi-Shule                                    3804                          5851
 G315 Keriya-Pishan (Hetian)                          2085                          2504

Four roads were selected from the implemented local roads for conducting traffic volume
observation. The result shows that along with development of road networks, the traffic
volume of some parts of local roads is larger than traffic volume of mainline.

                          Situation of Highway Network (IRI)

         Outcome Indicator                   Base Year 2002            Target Year 2008
 Improved Pavement Condition
 IRI                                              5.60                       4.90

Through highway network improvement, the entire IRI had much improvement.

K. Operation Experience

The operation of Xinjiang III Highway Project and its sub-components is going on well.
KSH has been built and opened to traffic in November 2006; engineering technical
situation of the highway is basically good. Since open to traffic up to July 31, 2009, the
accumulated toll collected is RMB Y 535,260,000 in total. In order to well manage,
maintain and use of KS expressway, play its best role, we had set up and amplified rules
and regulations, improved maintenance system, introduced advanced equipment,
improved work efficiency; paid close attention to road policy management, so that
ensured the road safety and smoothness. Xinjiang High Grade Highway Administration
Bureau (now it called Xinjiang Communications Construction Administrative Bureau), a


                                            47
unit established in March 1995, with rich experience is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the KS highway.

L. Assessment

Project Execution Agency

The project execution agency, Xinjiang Communications Construction Administrative
Bureau, and Project Execution Office (PEO) establish for KS expressway under its
management, fulfilled client's function and organized project implementation strictly in
accordance with State's basic construction procedures, State's bidding rules, the World
Bank's procurement guidelines and FIDIC terms. The client monitored engineering
progress, construction quality, safety and pricing together with Chief Supervision
Engineer's Office of KSH.

The World Bank

During project implementation, the World Bank mission reviewed the project many times
and provided practical suggestions and recommendations in respect of quality, financial
management and institutions. With the help of the Bank, a joint supervision team was set
up to supervise the civil works. In this way, it's not only guaranteed the construction
quality, but also assisted the local engineers being trained.

Cooperation between the World Bank and PEO: the cooperation between the Bank and
PEO are very good, very harmonious. The Bank officials could understand the
development needs of infrastructure of Xinjiang, and provided helps and assistances.
Xinjiang Regional Communication Department expresses its deep gratitude for the
cooperation and assistance extended by the World Bank, and hope would have
opportunity to get further assistance from the Bank and extend the cooperation.

M. Experience and Lessons

By implementing the Xinjiang highway projects, we have accumulated a wealth of
experience, mainly are: a) strengthening organization and coordination, actively win the
policy support, mobilizing all positive factors is the guarantee for smooth completion of
the construction assignments; b) stress on design plans, alignment distribution, new
technology application and testing and researching works, in order to ensure design
quality of project; c) selection of high quality construction and supervision team is the
key to ensure three major goals of works to be achieved; d) insist on managing the
contract with FIDIC term; e) enhance quality management, continuously improving
quality consciousness and engineering quality; f) improve construction quality and
progress through comparison, and organizing experience exchanges; g) accept the World
Bank's guiding and actively cooperation ensured the smooth implementation of the
Project.

Through institutional strengthening/staff training, work efficiency of agencies of
transportation as well as professional skills of the staff engaged in highway sector were


                                            48
improved. A batch of major technical staff got trained in the field of highway
management, planning, design, finance, administration, maintenance, traffic engineering.
The results of trainings are good and professional skills of them were improved.

Emphasis on "safety is most important", remain unblocked and relatively flat area on
both sides of highway to reduce loss caused by traffic accidents. The installation of traffic
safety protection facilities is scientific and proper, simple and practical.

The following aspects need to be further improved: applying of the World Bank's
Procurement Guideline and FIDIC terms should in combination with the actual situation
of the state, region and project area, such as strict the prequalification conditions, bid
evaluation method, reasonable contract packages, avoid improper lowest bid awarding,
enhance performance monitoring, playing supervision engineers' full role and rights.

Only good design could build good works. However, it is inevitable that discrepancy
appears on design and actual status due to tight time for early preparation, and limitations
of survey works. Therefore, when moving to the site, design drawings should be strictly
reviewed and checked to timely find the improper parts and then optimize them, so as to
ensure smooth implementation of works.




                                             49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Third Xinjiang Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report
No.24645-CHA), August 12, 2002

The World Bank, Third Xinjiang Highway Project: Loan Agreement (Loan/Credit IBRD
71430)) between Peoples Republic of China and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

The World Bank, Aide-Memoires of Third Xinjiang Highway Project, from 2002 to 2009

World Bank, 2007. China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable
Development. EASTE Working Paper #13

The Peoples' Republic of China. Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Xinjiang
Highway Project. Implementation Completion Report. Submitted by PEO of Xinjiang
High Grade Highway Construction Authority. August 2009 (and subsequent revisions)




                                        51
                                                                                                       IBRD 31783




                            CHINA
             THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
                       TRANSPORT SYSTEM
                             PROPOSED PROJECT KSH (KUITUN-SAILIMU HIGHWAY)

                             COMPLETED PROJECTS (TURFAN-DAHUANGSHAN AND URUMQI-KUITUN HIGHWAYS)

                             NATIONAL ROADS

                             PROVINCE ROADS
                                                                               KAZAKHSTAN
                             RAILROADS

                             AIRPORTS

                             PROVINCE CAPITAL

                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES

                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                             Sailimu
                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




KAZAKHSTAN




                   CHINA




                                                                                                       FEBRUARY 2002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 31861
                                                                                  82°
                                                                                                                                                                                             CHINA                                                                                                                        RUSSIAN           F E D E R AT I O N



                                                                                                                                                            THIRD XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                          K A Z A K H S TA N



                                                                                                                                                                      KUITUN-SAILIMU LAKE HIGHWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M O N G O L I A

                                 K A Z A K H S TA N                                                                                                                                          FOUR LANE EXPRESSWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KYRGYZ                Area of map                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L                        J I L I N
                                                                                                                                                                                             FOUR LANE CLASS I ROAD                                                  REPUBLIC                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TA                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                             TWO LANE CLASS II ROAD                                 J   IK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IS                                                                                                                  EI                                   LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TA                                                                                                                                                                     DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N                         XINJIANG                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERCHANGES                                                                                                                                                                                        BEIJING                                 REP. OF KOREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                             OTHER ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ferry                            R E P. O F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             84°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NIN GXI A
                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANDONG Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                                             RIVERS                                                                                                                 QINGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERMITTENT RIVERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HENAN                          JIANGSU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SH
                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                            XIZANG                                                                                                                               SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SICHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON
                                                                                                                                                                             0        10      20         30          40    50                                                                                                                                                                                              ZHEJIANG                            China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by                                                                                        JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the Map Design Unit of The                                                              HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YUNNAN                                                                                        TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on this map do not imply, on                                            GUANGXI                     GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the                                                                                          HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         legal status of any territory,                           VIETNAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or any endorsement or                          LAO




                                                                                                                             No
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         acceptance of such                           DEM. REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45°




                                                                                                                              r th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         boundaries.                                                                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
45°




                                                                                                                               er
                                                     Pole




                                                                                                                                  n
                                                            tala
                                                                   Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85°




                                                                                                                                     X in ji a n g
                                                                                          BOLE                                                                       Aipi Hu
                                                                                                                                                     Ra
                                                                                                                                                          ilw
                                                                                                                                                                ay
                   DEST




                                                                                                                EXISTING HIGHWAY 312
                                                                                                                   THROUGH JINGHE
                                                                                                                                                                      k420
                    IN AT




                                              k540                      k520              k500                                                                                               k400
                                k554                                                                BOLE INTERCHANGE
                     IO N




                                                                                                        k495+340
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TUOTUO TOLL STATION
                       OF TH




                                                                                                                                       k440                                                                   k380
                                                                                                      k480            k460                                                                                                      k364+530
                             E PRO




                                                                                                                                                     JINGHE                                                                      k360                                                                           SIKESHU TOLL STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          k340                                                                        k302+200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Start Point k249+000
      Sailimu Hu
                                   J




                                                      SITAI                                                                                                                                                                                                        GURTU BRIDGE
                              E C T,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     k260
                                                                                                         DAHEYANZI                                                                                                        TUOTUO                                    k335+030
                                                              BOLE TOLL STATION                                                                                                JINGHE INTERCHANGE                                                                                                                                                    k280
                                 k560




                                                                  k496+380                                                                                                          k425+638                                                                                               k320               k300
                                       +000




                                                               END OF CLASS I ROAD                                                                                           JINGHE BRIDGE                                                                                                                                                                                            WUSU                            KUITUN
                                                              START OF CLASS II ROAD                                                                                            k427+060                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CITY
             Existing Class 2 Highway                                                                                                                                        BAJIAHU TOLL STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SIKESHU
                                                                                                                                                                                   k434+570
                                                                                        DAHEYANZI INTERCHANGE
                                                                                              k469+140                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Exp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           URBAN SECTION OF CLASS I ROAD                                                                            WUSU INTERCHANGES                                                                                   t o Ur e s s w a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                k312+312 to 315+370                                                                                 k262+952 and 265+219                                                                                      rum y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     qi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAOQUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KUITUN RIVER BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                     SEVERAL URBAN SECTIONS OF CLASS I ROAD                                             URBAN SECTION OF CLASS I ROAD                                                                     k259+140
                                                                                                                                                                   k435+450 to 455+890                                                       k303+200 to 307+600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST KUITUN INTERCHANGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIKESHU BRIDGE                                               k254+998
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      k298+500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44°
44°

                      YINING                                                      82°                                                                                        83°                                                                                         84°                                                                                                                                                                                    85°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAY 2002
