                                           Documentof
                                        The WorldBank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: T7677-AL




                                     TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDCREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
                              (US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                                           ALBANIA

                                            FORAN

   AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROLAND HUMANPANDEMICPREPAREDNESSAND
   RESPONSEPROJECTUNDERTHE GLOBAL PROGRAMFORAVIAN INFLUENZA
                                             (GPAI)

                                          JUNE 1,2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2006)


                          Currency Unit = AlbanianLek (ALL)
                             ALL101.6 = US$1
                               US$1.46 = SDR 1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AI     Avian Influenza
FA0    Food andAgriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
FAQ    FrequentlyAskedQuestion
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GPAI    Global Program on Avian Influenza
HPAI    Highly PathogenicAvian Influenza
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC    Information, Education andCommunication
IPH     Institute ofPublic Health
ISDS    Integrated SafeguardsDatasheet
IVR    Institute o fVeterinary Research
MAFCP  MinistryofAgriculture, FoodandConsumerProtection
M O H  MinistryofHealth
NIL    NationalInfluenza Laboratory
NRL    NationalReferenceLaboratory
NVEU   NationalVeterinary EpidemiologicalUnit
OIE     World Organization for Animal Health(Office International des Epizooties)
PCR    Polymerase Chain Reaction
PHRD   Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopment (Grant)
PMU    Project Management Unit
PPE    PersonalProtective Equipment
RVP    Regional Vice President
svs     State Veterinary Services
TF      Task Force
UNICEF UnitedNations International Children's Fund
USAID  UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
WAHIS  World Animal HealthInformationSystem
WHO    World HealthOrganization
WRMP   Water ResourceManagement Project

                         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
              Country Managermirector:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                        Sector Manager:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead
                     Task Team Leader:       Julian A. Lampietti

                                                          ALBANIA
  Avian Influenza Control and Human PandemicPreparednessand ResponseProject
                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................      1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                    1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                          2

B PROJECT DESCRIPTION
 .                                        ....................................................................................................        2
 1. Project development objective andkeyindicators..............................................................                                      2
 2.  FinancingInstrumentandProject components...................................................................                                      3

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                ............................................................................................................        5
 1.  Institutionalandimplementation arrangements..................................................................                                    5
 2.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results..................................................................                                  6
 3.  Sustainability, criticalrisks andpossible controversial aspects..........................................                                         7
 4.  Loadcredit conditions andcovenants.................................................................................                               7

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                       .....................................................................................................         9
  1. Economic and financial analyses........................................................................................                           9
 2.  Technical........................................................................................................................... 11
 3.  Fiduciary........................................................................................................................... 12
 4.  Social................................................................................................................................. 12
 5.  Environment......................................................................................................................                13
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                  13
 7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                              14

APPENDICES    .............................................................................................................................           15

APPENDIX 1: Country and Sector Background                                 ....................................................................        16

APPENDIX 2: Results Framework and Monitoring                                     ..............................................................       21

APPENDIX 3a: Detailed Project Description                           .........................................................................         29

APPENDIX 3b: CompensationPlan                       ........................................................................................          46

APPENDIX 4: Project Coordination andImplementation Arrangements                                                           ..........................  50


APPENDIX 5: ProjectsCosts andFinancing
                                     ..........................................................................       51

APPENDIX 6: ProcurementArrangements  ...........................................................................      52

APPENDIX 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                 .......................... 58

APPENDIX 8: EnvironmentalandSocialAnalysis andMitigation                       .....................................  64

APPENDIX 9: NationalVeterinaryStructure.April 2006            ....................................................    68

MAP         IE3RD#33359


                                               ALBANIA

    AVIANINFLUENZACONTROLAND HUMANPANDEMICPREPAREDNESSAND
                                         RESPONSEPROJECT

                                         TECHNICALANNEX

                                    EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA

                                                 ECSSD

                                                      Team Leaders: Julian A. Lampietti, Ibrahim
~Date: May 26,2006
 Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Hackaj
 Sector Managermirector: Marjory-Anne Bromhead        Sectors: Animal production (65%); Health (35%)
 Lendinginstrument: ERL                               Themes: Natural disaster management (P);Other
                                                      communicable diseases (P);Rural policies and
                                                      institutions (S);Other environment andnatural
                                                      resourcesmanagement (S)
                                                      Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                      Assessment
                                                      Safeguard screening category:
 Financing Data:
                     A. New Financing              IB.Additional Financing     1 C. ExistingFinancing
                                                                                 (restructuring)
 Project ID(s):      IDA
 P100273
 Financing type      [ ] Loan[ ] Credit [XI         [ ] Loan[ ] Credit [ ]       [ ] Loan[ ] Credit [ ]
                     Grant [ ] Other [ ]            Grant [ ] Other [ ]          Grant [ ] Other [ ]
 Amount:             U S $ 5 million
 Proposedterms:      (IDA): Standard Credit
                     Modified Terms: 20 years to
                     maturity; 10years grace
                     period, with no acceleration
                     clause
 Implementation      July 15,2006 to June 30,2009
period:
 Expected            July 15,2006
 effectiveness date:
 Expectedclosing     June 30,2009
 date:
 Borrower:           Albania
                     Tirana
                     Albania
 Responsible        MinistryofAgriculture, Food,
 agency:             and Consumer Protection
                     Sheshi Skenderbej
                     Tirana
                     Albania
                     www.maof.gov.al

Total IDNIBRDFinancing (A.+B.+C., US$m.): 5.0
FinancingPlan (US$m.)
Source                    I Local                       IForeign                I Total




Borrower                                   0.30                    0.00                               0.30
Total IBRD/IDA                             4.15                    0.85                               5.OO
Trust Funds                                0.49                    0.31                               0.80
Others
Total                                      4.94                    1.16                               6.10

                     2006 2007                           2008 2009              2010 2011
Total IBRD/IDA                1.60                       2.30  1.10
PHRD                          0.22                       0.42  0.16


                                                                                    [XIYes [ ] No

Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ Section C.4 of Guidelines                                                       [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project (andor new components, as applicable) meet the Regional
criteria for readiness for implementation? Re$ SectionD.7                           [XIYes [ ] N o



The project development objective i s to strengthenthe country's capacity to prevent the spread of avian
influenza among poultry, to preventthe transmission of avian influenza from birdsto other animals and
humans, andto prepare for apotentialpandemic of avian influenza transmissible betweenhumans.

Short description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.2

I.PublicAwareness andInformation Campaignwill include: a) RiskCommunication; andb)
Communication for Behavior Change. This component will help develop and implement a
communications plan to informthe public, particularly those more likely to be exposed to HPAI, about
the threat ofHPAIandhow they can minimize the risk oftransmission and spreado f disease.

II.AnimalHealth Componentwillinclude:a) EnhancingHPAIPreventionandPreparednessCapability;
b) StrengtheningHPAIControl Programs andOutbreakContainmentPrograms; c) Strengthening Disease
Control Capacities, and ImprovingSurveillance, Diagnostic Capacities, and Applied Researchand will
support a national programto develop and implementshort- and long-termHPAIprevention,
containment, and control and eradication activities inanimals.

III.HumanHealthComponentwillinclude:a) EnhancingCoordinationandProgramPlanning; b)
StrengtheningNational Public Health Surveillance System; and c) Strengthening Health Care Response
Capacity.

IV.AvianInfluenza TaskForce ComponentwillsupporttheAvianInfluenzaTFinimplementationof
the government's Avian Influenzaresponsestrategy (including components 1-111above), andwill



                                                       11
                                                       ..

:omprise two subcomponents: a) Strengthening the TF by Establishinga Permanent Secretariat; andb)
Monitoring and Evaluation

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?Re$ Section D.6
Since the Project supports investments incarcass disposal for culledpoultry and investments in
laboratories and hospitals it receives aB category for safeguard screening. The Project Operational
Manual(a condition of effectiveness) will includean environmentalassessment(EA) andenvironmental
managementplan (EMP) to address these issues. A waiver for the requirement to complete the EA and
EMP duringproject preparationhas been sought and obtained per para. 12of OP 4.01.

Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
Re$ Section C.5

Condition of Disbursement

The condition o f disbursementi s as follows: Nowithdrawal shall be made for expenditures for Eligible
Emergency Imports includedinthe positive list inSection V.C o f Schedule 2 to the Financing
Agreement, unless:    (1)a national emergency on Avian Influenza has beendeclared by the Recipient and a
well-defined emergency recovery program, satisfactory to the Association, hasbeen adoptedby the
Recipient; (ii)for goods suppliedunder a contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreedto finance or which the
Association has financed or agreedto finance under another Grant or Credit; and (iii)  inexcess ofan
aggregateamount equivalent to 50% of the amount o f the Financing for any category o f eligible imports
specified inthe above-referenced positive list without prior approval by the Association.

                         A. NewFinancing                  B.Additional Financing:      C.Existing
                                                                                       Financing:
Approval:                See below

Loadcredit               See below
effectiveness:

Covenants                See below
applicable to project
or component
implementation:
Board presentation
NA

Conditions of Effectiveness

The key conditions needed to minimize the risks to the Project have been addressedby Albania having
met the eligibility requirements for participatinginthe GPAI (see GPAIPAD paragraphs 43 through 45).
Specific provisionshave been developed to meet the standard requirements covering organizational and
staffing arrangements, as well management, procurementand financial management arrangements.

The Additional Conditions o f Effectiveness consist o f the following:
         (a)     the Annual Work Program for the first year of the implementation o f the Project,
                  satisfactory to the Association, has beenprepared and adoptedbythe Recipient;
         (b)     the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adoptedby the
                 Recivient.

                                                       ...
                                                       111

I         (c)      the Environmental Management Plan, acceptableto the Association, hasbeen adoptedby
                   the Recipient.
           (d)     the Co-financing Grant Agreement has beenexecuted and delivered and all conditions
                   precedent to its effectiveness or to the rightof the Recipientto make withdrawals under it
                   (other than the effectiveness of the FinancingAgreement) have been fulfilled.

 Implementation Covenants

 1.       The Recipient, throughthe MAFCPandthe MOH, shallmaintainthe Avian InfluenzaTask Force
 (AITF), includingthe permanent Secretariat ofthe AITF andthe Project Coordinators, throughout the
 implementationo fthe Projectunder terms ofreference satisfactory to the Association and with sufficient
 and suitable human, financial and technical resources.

 2.       The MAFCP shallbe responsible for procurement and financial management activities under the
 Project. The Recipient shall ensure that procurement andfinancial management activities for the project
 shall be carried out by the MAFCP under terms ofreference satisfactory to the Association and with
 sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources.

 3.       The Recipient shall carry out the obligations inaccordancewith the Project Operational Manual
 and the Environmental Management Plan, and shallnot amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
 provision o f the Project OperationalManual or the EnvironmentalManagement Plan without prior
 approval o f the Association.

 4.       The Recipient, through the M o Handthe MAFCP, shall, not later than June 30 ofeachyear,
 duringthe implementationof the Project, starting June 30,2007, submitto the Association anAnnual
 Work Program for the following calendar year, and shall agree with the Association on steps to be taken
 inthe followingcalendaryear.

 5.      The Recipientshall prepare, under terms o freference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish
 to the Association, on or about December 31,2007, a report integrating the results o f the monitoring and
 evaluation activities performedpursuant to paragraph 1of this Section, on the progress achieved inthe
 carrying out o fthe Project duringthe periodprecedingthe date o f saidreport, and setting out the
 measuresrecommendedto ensure the efficient carrying out o f the Project and the achievement o f the
 objectives thereof duringthe period following such date.

 6.      The Recipientshallreview with the Association, byJanuary 30, 2008, or such later date as the
 Association shall determine, the report referredto inparagraph (a) of Schedule 2, SectionI11o f the
 FinancingAgreement, and, thereafter, take all measuresrequiredto ensure the efficient completiono f the
 Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof, basedon the conclusions and recommendations o f
 the said report and the Association's views onthe matter.

 7.      The Recipientshall prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the
 Association, for the further implementationo fthe Projecthavingregard to the findings of the report
 referredto inparagraph (a) of Schedule 2, Section 111o f the Financing Agreement and, thereafter,
 implement suchaction program.




                                                         iv

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues
Albania i s an "Imminent Risk Case" for HighlyPathogenic Avian Influenza(HPAI),'
withthe confirmationinMarch2006 oftwo outbreaks ofHPAIdiscovered among
domestically rearedpoultry. The threat ofnew infection amongpoultry i s imminent, and
sporadic outbreaks ofHPAIhave great potential to spreadifleft unchecked. More than
half o f 323 wild birdspecies recorded inthe country are consideredmigratory,
frequenting wetlands that border on farming communities. Albania's poultry population
i s estimated to be 6.275 million, ofwhich over 85 percent i s reared as free-rangepoultry
on small household farms across the country. The potentialconsequenceso fan
undetected or unchecked outbreak, includingtransmission ofthe virus to humans andthe
emergence o f a virus transmissible betweenhumans, are well-documented.2

         The Government o fAlbania, with the support o fthe international donor
community inAlbania, has focused on mountinga rapidresponse, to improve
surveillance, detection andcontainment measures.These efforts include adjusting
legislation for control andprevention of communicable diseases, including influenza
pandemics, inline with international standards; establishing aNational Influenza
Pandemic Committee, or "Task Force," as aninter-ministerialandinter-sectoral decision-
makingbody;3 andestablishing aworking group betweenthe MinistryofHealth(MOH)
andthe MinistryofAgriculture, Foodand Consumer Protection (MAFCP). The MOH
haspreparedand monitors implementationo f a national contingency plan, and an
InfluenzaCommittee at the MOHis incontinuous contact with the CivilEmergencies
andCrises Committee at the Ministryofthe Interior.The InstituteofPublic Health(IPH)
i s the NationalFocalPoint for Influenza Pandemic (humanpublic health). The Institute
of Veterinary Research (IVR) inMAFCP is the NationalFocalPoint for Avian Influenza
(veterinary public health). Establishment of Avian Pandemic InfluenzaDistrict
Committees (sub-national level) i s underprogress. The government effectively contained
two separateoutbreaks o fHPAIconfirmed indomestic poultryinMarch 2006.4

         However, there is an urgentneedto improveAlbania's capacity to prevent,
identify, contain and eradicateHPAIoutbreaks, anddeal with apotentialpandemic
should this contingency develop. Inlight ofthis, andconsidering the need for
strengtheninginstitutionalcapacities, increasingpublic awareness, andthe potential need
for compensation funds, the government i s urgently seeking to step up its responseto the

'`SeeGPAI
      GPAI PAD p. 54. A country at immanent riskhas diagnosed cases o f animal infections, not human.
  See       PAD p.1-3.
  This Task Force was established byorder ofthe Prime Minister on October 28,2005. Membership o fthe
Task Force includes the Ministries o f Agriculture (chair), Health, Interior, Education, Environment, and
Finance. Its mainresponsibilities include taking decisions at the national level for prevention and control o f
HPAI; coordination of the national contingency plan; and distribution o f tasks to each ministry; ensuring
implementation at the field level; preparing bulletins; informing the PM's office; and communicating with
national and international organizations. The AI task force meets regularly. However, as yet it has no
permanent secretariat with full time staff working to coordinate detailed planning and crisis management
and ensure regular monitoring and supervision o f activities.
  For more details on lessons learned from the two outbreaks see Appendix 1.

                                                    2


threat of HPAI, andhas requested World Bank financing for its efforts. Albania meets the
financing eligibility and criteria for the GPAIas a newly infected country with an active
outbreak o f avian flu among poultry, butwithout reportedhumancases. It has
demonstratedits commitment and has an appropriate program o frapid response,
detection and containment measures, including appropriate implementation and
monitoring arrangements that the international agencies and donor community, including
the Bank, can s ~ p p o r t . ~

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement
This project will bringimportant benefits inthe areas o f strengthening veterinary and
public health services andmitigating the social and economic fallout o f a potential
influenza pandemic.

          The World HealthOrganization(WHO) andother UNagencies have taken the
lead inmounting the technical response to Albania's avian influenza crisis. This Project
Technical Annex (replacing the Project Appraisal Document for projects under the
GPAI) builds onprior work conducted bythe Albanian government andthese agencies.6
These agencies operating on the ground have already mobilized to respond and address
some o f the most critical needs that have been identified.7 Going forward, the World
Bankanticipates that theseUNagencies will continue to take the leadinproviding
technical assistance. However, the scale o f the response that is needed to contain and
eradicate avian influenza outbreaks, andprevent transmission to humans, requires
mobilization o f financial resources beyondthe mandate and means o f these organizations,
andwell beyondthe government's emergency reserves. The World Bankis able to bring
critical assistance to these efforts inthe form of a financing framework (IDA credits and
some grant money). Inaddition, with experience o f assisting other countries under the
Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI) umbrella the Bankis able to bringvaluable
lessons learnedfrom other countries facing similar threats andinsimilar operating
environments. It also has important operational experience inmounting emergency
response lending.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators
The project development objective is to strengthen the country's capacity to prevent the
spread o f avian influenza among poultry, to prevent the transmission o f avianinfluenza
from birds to other animals andhumans, andto prepare for a potential pandemic o f avian
influenza transmissible between humans.



  See the "Financing Eligibility andCriteria" inthe GPAI PAD, paragraphs 43 through 45.
 Prior work conducted by the Albanian government and donor agencies, including the "Support for
AlbanianAvian Influenza Control Program", was preparedinline with the WHO, FAO, OIE and other
relevant institutions' documents and guidelines addressing `Global Avian Influenza PreparednessPlanning
and Response', and information from the IPH's National Contingency Plan.
 The donor responses that will coordinate most closely with the Project are the WHO'Scontinued
provisiono f technical support to the government o fAlbania, andpreparation, implementation and support
to the government on a communications campaign, jointly managedby UNICEF and USAID.

                                             3


        The keyproject outcome indicators will be:

With regardto awareness o fHPAIthreat andhow to prevent it:
1.      Behavior changes among keyveterinary andpublic healthpersonnel.
2.      Public awareness o fhow to prevent spreadincreases andbehavior changes.

With regard to HPAIoutbreaksamongpoultry:
1.      Government culls birds at the infectionpoints following internationalbest
        practice.
2.      Government provides timely compensationto farmers for culledbirds.

Withregardto HPAIoutbreaksamonghumans:
1.      Infectiondiagnosed and contained.
2.      Patients receive appropriate treatment for HPAIinfection.

2. FinancingInstrumentandProjectcomponents
The project comes underthe GPAI discussedbythe Boardon January 12,2006. The
financing instrument for the project will be anEmergency Recovery Loan o fUS$
5,000,000 equivalent (SDR 3.5 million), with co-financing ofUS$ 800,000 from aPHRD
grant from the Government of Japan, and anAlbanian government contributiono fUS$
300,000, for a total ofUS$6,100,000 equivalent. The project will consist of the
following four components:

ComponentI: PublicAwareness andInformationCampaign(US$460,600)
This component will help develop andimplementacommunications planto informthe
public, particularly those more likely to be exposedto HPAI, about the threat o fHPAI
andhow they canminimize the risk o f transmission and spread o f disease.

        The first subcomponentwill support Risk Communication to the populationby
identifyingmechanisms for communication on the avian influenza situation, and
establishing andmaintainingproductive working relationship with the media to ensure
productive cooperation with the media inpropagating essentialandconsistent
information relatingto HPAI. For coordination o f communications, a communications
expert will be appointed within the communications working group o fthe Avian
Influenza Task Force (TF). This expert will assist the communications working group in
managing a communications campaign to inform the general public about the status o f
HPAIinthe country and actions beingtaken by the government, andto help improve
effective coordination andcollaboration among different stakeholdersinvolved in
communications (IVR, IPH, NGOs etc).

        The second subcomponentwill focus on Communicationfor Behavior Change.
Keymessages andmaterials will bedeveloped anddisseminatedfor differentaudiences,
particularly keyhigh-risk groups, such as farmers andchildreninwetland areas where
probabilityof exposure is high.

                                              4


        Apart from the communications expert andher or his operating costs, this
component will be h d e d for the first six monthso f the project byUSAID andthe UN.
Thereafter the component maybe fundedbyProject funds.

Component11:            AnimalHealth(US$3,698,200)
This component will support a national program to develop and implement short and long
term HPAIprevention, containment, and control and eradication activities inanimals.
This will comprise three subcomponents:

        The first subcomponent will focus onEnhancing HPAIPrevention and
Preparedness Capability.It will strengthen the national policy andregulatory
environment for veterinary service andinspection, and will also support improved HPAI
prevention and control planning.This subcomponent will also support introductiono f
tools andmechanisms for improvement o fbio-safety practices inpoultry production.

        The second subcomponent will focus on StrengtheningDisease Control
Capacities, and Improving Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacities, and Applied Research. It
will strengthen veterinary epidemiological surveillance through the creation of aNational
Veterinary Epidemiological Unit (NVEU).National diagnostic capacities andbio-safety
protocols will be strengthened at the Institute ofVeterinary Research, and animal disease
information systems will also be improved.

        The third subcomponent will focus on StrengtheningHPAI Control Programs and
Outbreak Containment Programs. It will target virus eradication at the source through
culling and disposal o finfected andat-risk poultry, and control o fmovement ofbirds.
This will be undertakenwith the assistance of two properly equippedmobile sub-units
from the NVEU.The third subcomponent will also include a Compensation Fund o fUS$
2,000,000, to support the government incompensating farmers for culled livestock.

Component111:           HumanHealthComponent(US$1,600,000)
This component will comprise three subcomponents:

        The first subcomponent willEnhance Coordinationand Program Planning, by:
(i) strengthening intra-sectoral command and sector coordination mechanisms, and(ii)
supportingregular revisions, and updating and further detailing o f the MOHcontingency
plan. This subcomponent will also finance: i)the development o f a detailed
implementationplanfor "social distancing" measures inthe case o f an epidemic; ii)the
preparation o fthe training program; and iii)regular simulation exercises.

        The second subcomponent will Strengthen the National Public Surveillance
System by: (i) buildingupthe capacityo fthe National InfluenzaLaboratory (NIL)
through the provision of equipment, kits and reagents andPPE, andthe trainingretraining
o f laboratory staff; and (ii)
                            strengthening the capacity o fthe IPHandregional
epidemiological investigation andresponse teams.

                                                5


         The third subcomponent will Strengthen Health CareResponse Capacity, by
strengthening the capacity o fmedical services to isolate andtreat patients with severe
communicable diseases, supportingthe purchase anddistribution of anti-viral drugs and
developing effective guidelines for their use, and expanding immunization against
seasonal flu for staff andpopulation at risk.

ComponentIV:              Supportto Avian InfluenzaTask Force (US$341,200)
This component will support the AvianInfluenza TF inimplementationo f the
government's Avian Influenzaresponse strategy (including components 1-111above), and
will comprise two subcomponents:

         The first subcomponent will Strengthen the TFby Establishing a Permanent
Secretariat with fill-time  staff to manage the project, and clearly lay out their areas of
authority (for more details, see C.1., Institutional andimplementation arrangements).

         The second subcomponent will support Monitoring and Evaluation capacities and
activities at all administrative levels, andwill develop an actionplanfor monitoring and
evaluation. This actionplanwill include baseline studies, ongoing participatory
monitoring and evaluation, and a final project evaluation. Project evaluation will include
both quantitative andqualitative aspects andbe conducted on a yearly basis.

         One of the key characteristics o f the HPAIthreat is the difficulty inpredicting the
course the pandemic will take. An important feature ofthe project therefore is the
flexibility to adapt to a changing situation, with the ability to reallocate funds between
components andcategories, andpotentially to draw up new components ifnecessary.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
The Project will be implementedby existing govemmental institutions. The two main
implementation agencies will be MAFCP andthe MOH, andtheir related central and
regional agencies. Other governmental agencies and NGOs and service providers
(Regional Extension Service, private veterinarians, community-based organizations) will
also be involved inthe delivery of a variety o f services.

         Given the national importance and cross-sectoral nature o f the project, overall
responsibility for overseeing and coordinating institutional and implementation
arrangements at the national level will be vested with the government's AI TF. Within
the TF there will be a permanent Secretariat, located inMAFCP (See organigram in
Appendix 4). The Secretariat will be ledbytwo Project Coordinators. The Secretariat
will manage everydayimplementation issues relatedto the project, and will coordinate
the activities among all ministries involved such as Agriculture, Health, Environment/
Forestry, Interior (dealing with emergency situations), Education, Finance andthe donor
community. The Secretariat will coordinate project activities with the departments in
charge ineach ministry, with their research institutions, and with sector staff inthe
Regions, Municipalities and Communes.

                                                6



         The specific responsibilities o f the two Project Coordinators leadingthe
Secretariat will be to manage and implement project activities. Both coordinators will
report directly to the TF Chairman, and they will coordinate project activities with other
relevant government agencies. Moreover they will prepare annual work programs intheir
sectors and submit inputsto the Project's quarterly and annual financial monitoring
reports. They will be responsible for monitoring and will collect relevant data from their
respective implementing ministries and agencies and compile them into progress reports,
focusing on the status o f physical implementation by component, the use of project funds,
and monitoring indicators. After three years their involvement will be phased out as the
longterm capacities for addressing the threat o f HPAI and other human and animal
diseases are developed inthe relevant institutions.

         Fiduciary andprocurement expertise, including responsibility for consolidating
the annual Work Programs and budgets, and for the consolidationo f quarterly financial
management reporting andprogress reports, will be sourced from existing capacity in
MAFCP, with the help o f additional staff/consultants recruited for overall administration
o f training activities, procurement, and financial management. For financial management
the Project will adopt the Project Operational Manual o fthe existing PMUo f the Water
Resource Management Project (WRMP), incorporating it into its Project Operational
Manual and adding procedures for the operation o f the CompensationFund.

         The Project implementation arrangements will promotethe objectives o fthe four
guidingprinciples o fthe governance filter o fthe Albania CAS (FY06-09). The project
will incorporateObjective A), Transparency inUse o fPublic Resources, inthe overall
management o fproject funds and inparticular with the management o f the Compensation
Fund,where strict measureswill be adopted to provide for transparency, accountability
and anti-corruption goals. Project management will be set up andimplemented with the
aim o f strengthening o f internal capacity and effective oversight for public finance, audit,
andprocurement andtransparent financial reporting. Objective B), Increased Autonomy
and De-Politicization o f the Public Administration, will be supported by use o frelevant
government structures to implement the project rather than a PMU. The project will
support Objective C), Decentralization, through the use o f district administration
structures and other local bodies as necessary, andthe inclusion o f local government
officials intraining; and Objective D) through involvement o fNGOs and community
associations inthe Public Awareness andInformation Campaign, and consultations with
poultry farmers duringproject preparation andimplementation.

2. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults
A detailed results framework andthe associated arrangements for monitoring are
included inAppendix 2. These are broadly consistent with GPAIstandards and
expectations. Overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation will be with the Project
Coordinators inthe TF Secretariat.

                                              7


3. Sustainability, critical risksand possible controversial aspects
The Government of Albania has committed itself to a medium term strategy to address
HPAIandother zoonoses indomestic poultry andto prepare for, control andrespondto
an avian influenza epidemic inhumans. The strategy is endorsed bythe WHO and other
donors. A multidisciplinary TF chairedbythe DeputyMinister o fAgriculture is
coordinating these efforts andreporting to the PrimeMinister's office.

The main critical risks are associated with the following:
    Payment of compensation tofarmers. Ifthe government is unable to pay farmers
    satisfactory and timely compensation for culled poultry, farmers may not report
    outbreaks and resist culling. Satisfactory operational procedures for the compensation
    fundhave beendevelopedandthe fundhasbeensufficiently capitalized.
    Misuse of the Compensation Fundfacility. There is a risk that corruption will lead to
    misuse o f the CompensationFund. To mitigate this risk detailedprocedures for the
    operation o f the CompensationFund, including mechanisms for controls, reviews,
    andaudits, willbe includedinthe Project Operational Manual.
    Dijjficulty of implementing social distancing measures.People may resist any policy
    of social distancing should it become necessary. The public information campaign
    andthe training o fcase workers inearlyidentificationwill mitigatethis risk.
    Structure of thepoultry industv, which leaves Albania vulnerable tofurther HPAI
    outbreak. The structure o fthe poultry-rearing industryleaves Albania very
    vulnerable to further outbreaks o f HPAI. Enclosure of domestic poultrywill be
    promoted through an effective awareness campaign and a pilot study.
    Insufficient public awareness of the HPAI threat and measures that can be taken to
    prevent it. Public awareness o f the danger o f an HPAIoutbreak and measures that can
    prevent it is low, resulting inpreparedness steps not being taken up by the population.
    This risk i s mitigated bythe public awareness and information campaign.
    Coordination across ministries. An effective response to the threat o fHPAI
    requires a cross-sectoral response. The potential risk of lack o f coordination across
    multiple agencies is mitigatedby the presence o f the AI TF, andthe presence o f the
    full-timeSecretariat andProject Coordinators.

         There are no controversial aspects to the project. It i s consistent with the
Government's medium term strategy and endorsed by the GovernmentTF. The project is
fully consistent with the GPAI.

4. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness. The key conditions needed to minimize the risks to the
Project have been addressed by Albania having met the eligibility requirements for
participating inthe GPAI(see GPAIPAD paragraphs 43 through 45). Specific
provisions have beendeveloped to meet the standard requirements covering
organizational and staffing arrangements, as well management, procurement and
financial management arrangements.

                                               8


The Additional Conditions o fEffectiveness consist o fthe following:
    (a)     the Annual Work Program for the first year o fthe implementation o f the
            Project, satisfactory to the Association, has beenprepared andadoptedbythe
            Recipient;
    (b)     the Project OperationalManual, satisfactory to the Association, has been
            adopted bythe Recipient.
    (c)     the EnvironmentalManagement Plan, acceptable to the Association, has been
            adopted by the Recipient.
    (d)     The Co-financing Grant Agreement has been executed anddelivered and all
            conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right o f the Recipient to
            make withdrawals under it (other thanthe effectiveness o fthe Financing
            Agreement) have been fulfilled.

Conditionof Disbursement
The condition o fdisbursement is as follows: No withdrawal shall be made for
expenditures for Eligible Emergency Imports included inthe positive list inSectionV.C
o f Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement, unless: (i)  anational emergency on Avian
Influenza has been declared bythe Recipient and a well-defined emergency recovery
program, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the Recipient; (ii)    for
goods supplied under a contract which any national or international financing institution
or agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance or which
the Association has financed or agreed to finance under another Grant or Credit; and (iii)
inexcessofanaggregate amountequivalentto 50% ofthe amount ofthe Financingfor
any categoryo f eligible imports specified inthe above-referenced positive listwithout
prior approval bythe Association.

Covenants
The Project implementation covenants are as follows:

1.      The Recipient, through the MAFCP and the MOH, shall maintain the Avian
Influenza Task Force (AITF), including the permanent Secretariat o f the AITF andthe
Project Coordinators, throughout the implementation o fthe Project under terms o f
reference satisfactory to the Association andwith sufficient and suitable human, financial
and technical resources.

2.      The MAFCP shallberesponsiblefor procurement andfinancial management
activities under the Project. The Recipient shall ensure that procurement and financial
management activities for the project shall be carried out by the MAFCP under terms o f
reference satisfactory to the Association andwith sufficient and suitable human, financial
and technical resources.

3.      The Recipient shall carry out the obligations inaccordance with the Project
OperationalManual and the EnvironmentalManagement Plan, and shall not amend,
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision ofthe Project Operational Manual or
the EnvironmentalManagement Planwithoutprior approval o fthe Association.

                                              9


4.      The Recipient, through the MoHandthe MAFCP, shall, not later thanJune 30 of
eachyear, duringthe implementation o fthe Project, starting June 30,2007, submit to the
Association anAnnual Work Program for the following calendar year, and shall agree
with the Association on steps to betaken inthe following calendar year.

5.       The Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and fwnishto the Association, on or about December 31,2007, areport
integrating the results of the monitoring andevaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph 1ofthis Section, on the progress achieved inthe carryingout o f the Project
duringthe periodprecedingthe dateofsaidreport, andsetting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out o fthe Project andthe achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date.

6.      The Recipient shall review with the Association, by January 30,2008, or such
later date as the Association shall determine, the report referredto inparagraph (a) o f
Schedule 2, Section I11o fthe Financing Agreement, and, thereafter, take all measures
requiredto ensure the efficient completion ofthe Project andthe achievement ofthe
objectives thereof, basedon the conclusions andrecommendations o fthe said report and
the Association's views onthe matter.

7.      The Recipient shall prepareandsubmit to the Association an action program,
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project havingregard
to the findings of the report referred to inparagraph (a) of Schedule 2, Section I11o fthe
FinancingAgreement and, thereafter, implementsuch action program.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses
The proposedproject investments arejustifiedon the basis o fthe positive externalities
associatedwith preventionandcontainment of a highlyinfectious disease such as HPAI.
Without the investmentsproposedbythis project it is likely that households and firms
will not undertake the actions necessaryto prevent andcontain the spreadofthe disease.
This would lead to increasedinfection andhigherlossesofpoultry, as well as higherrisks
o ftransmission to humans. Should the virus betransmittedto humans andbecome
pandemic, there is a potential for tremendous loss of life.

        HPAIis relatively new andfew data are available about its historicaltransmission
pattern. Therefore, an economic or financial analysis o fthe project interventionmustrely
on assumptions about the probabilityo fthe incidence and spread ofthe disease, both
among poultry and amonghumans. The analysis presentedhere makes a series o f simple
assumptionsabout the incidence and spread o fthe diseaseamong poultry and shows the
minimumreduction inincidence that needsto be achievedbythe project inorder for the
investment to break even. Any additional reductions inincidence or spreadwill
contribute to apositive rate o freturnon the investment.

                                               10


        This analysis i s limitedto the short term financial implications o fthe spread o f the
virus among poultry, and represents a lower bound on the potential economic benefits o f
the investment. It does not attempt to quantify the economic costs andbenefits o f
preventing the spread o fthe virus to poultry andhumans. Ifthe full project investment
(including the humanhealth component) can bejustified by the short-term financial
implications to the poultry sector, then any additional economic benefits (especially
beyond the life of the project disbursement period) of avoiding humanillness and
possibly death would contribute to a higher rate o freturn. Long-tern benefits o f the
project include strengthened capacity inthe veterinary andhumanhealth systems to
prepare for, control andrespondto HPAIinfection andother zoonoses and infectious
disease emergencies inboth animals and humans.

Poultry Sector
The total number of poultry (including turkeys) inAlbania i s over 6 million, o fwhich
approximately 85 percent is owned by small holders. Small poultry farming i s scattered
across the country and the average price o f a maturebird(weighing approximately 2.5kg)
was US$7 inthe market inearly 2006. Prices have been stable inrecent years.

Probabilities Associated with theIncidence and Spread of HPAI in the Poultry Sector
There are two types o f event associated with the spread o f HPAIinthe poultry sector: (1)
sporadic contained outbreaks (similar to what i s already going on inAlbania) where a
limitednumber o fbirds must be culled; and(2) widespread outbreaks, where a significant
percentage o f the poultry stock is decimated at one time. Table 1outlines the assumed
probabilities o f these events occurring ina given year with and without the project.
Without the project, the probability o f continued sporadic contained outbreaks is 100
percent, which is the current situation inAlbania. And the probability o f a widespread
outbreak i s 40 percent inthe first year and increases by 5 percentage points per year as
the disease spreads. The with-project scenario assumes that the probability o f continued
contained sporadic outbreaks is 90 percent inthe first year and falls 10percentage points
per year. Similarly, with the project the probability o f a widespread outbreak is 35
percent inthe first year and falls 5 percentage points per year thereafter.

Table 1: Assumptionsaboutthe Probabilityof Spreadof HPAIinthe PoultrySector
                                                        Year 1         Year 2        Year 3
 Probability of outbreaks (without theproject)
  Continued contained sporadic outbreaks                 100%          100%          100 %
  Widespread outbreak                                     40 %         45 %          50 %
 Probability of outbreak (with project)
  Continued contained sporadic outbreaks                  90 %         80 %          70 %
  Widespread outbreak                                     35 %         30 Yo         25 %

The other key assumptions inthe model are the percent o f the poultry stock that will be
lost fiom contained sporadic (5 percent o f the stock) and from widespread outbreaks (25
percent). The model also assumes the poultry stock is not replaced each year.

                                               11


Financial Analysis Results
The with/without project analysisbasedonthe assumptions inTable 1indicates that the
internalrate o freturn for the project i s 44 percent. As notedearlier, this i s a lower bound
on the benefits from the project investments. Sensitivity analysis shows that, all other
thingsbeingequal, the project breaks even ifit achieves aminimumof a 3.5 percentage
point reductioninthe probability o f a widespread outbreak eachyear for three years. This
i s a plausible goal for the project.

2. Technical
Animal Health
Successhl implementation of the project depends on aphasedmulti-disciplinary strategy
basedon a sound epidemiological approach to prevention and controlo f HPAIoutbreaks.
This strategy has to take into consideration the range ofepidemiological scenariosthat
exist or may arise inAlbania, as well as the differentpoultryproductionsystems inthe
country and different levels of incidence (ranging from highincidence with variable flock
outbreaks, through low frequency disease outbreaks with partial flock immunity, to
sporadic outbreaks). A balanced combination o f appropriate diseasecontrol options,
tailoredto the specific characteristics andneeds o f Albania, is therefore essential for the
achievement o fthe project objectives.

         The final aim would be to improve the capacity of Albania's veterinary services,
primarily the StateVeterinary Services (SVS) as the national competent authority for
animal health, but also subordinated veterinaryagenciesinthe country. Keyissues to be
addressedbythe project include: capacity o f veterinary services, harmonization o f
diseaseinformationsystems; capacity for practicing effective bio-safety measures;
coordination betweenpublic agencies and linkages with the private sector; disease
surveillance andcontrol, diagnostic capacities and appliedresearch; and surveillance and
control o fHPAI.

Human Health
No HPAIcases inhumanshave been reported inAlbania to date. However, the particular
context characterizedby free-rangingpoultry insmall household farms andclose contact
between humanandpoultry put Albania at relatively highrisk o ftransmission o f the
virus to humans. Analysis carried out shows that the capacity o fthe MOH, IPHand other
stakeholdersto rapidly and accurately detect HPAIcases inhumans, appropriately treat
patients andprevent the transmission and spread o f the virus is still relativelylimited.

         First,while investigation teams do exist at boththe IPH(national) andregional
levels, their capacity to quickly and effectively investigate andrespond to local outbreaks
appears limited.Second, the capacity o fhealth services to effectively isolate suspicious
cases andtreat patients contaminated with the virus i s at present extremely limited.This
i s particularly true inregionalhospitals where isolationrooms do not exist and infectious
controlmeasures are poorly implemented. Therefore, bothpatients andhealthworkers
would be at highrisk ifvirus mutation leads to possible humanto human transmission.
Third, inthe case ofthe pandemic, health services will rapidlybecome unable to cope
with an explosive increaseofthe numbero fpatients.

                                              12



        Insuch acontext, priorityneedsto begivento: i)strengtheningthe capacity of
national andregional investigation teams through training andprovisionof necessary
equipment, notablyPPE; ii)the creation ofisolation rooms inregionalhospitals; iii)
training o fhealth workers inmanagingpatients affectedwithhighlypathogenic viruses;
andiv) identificationofculturally andsocially appropriate social distancing measuresin
case o f a pandemic event andthe preparationof "clean out plans" for hospitals.

3. Fiduciary
A financial management assessment ofthe WRMP PMUwas undertakeninMarch2006
to determine whether the existing financial managementarrangementsare acceptableto
IDA.The financial managementarrangementsofthe WRMP PMUhavealsobeen
reviewedperiodically as part o fpreviousproject supervisions since 1999 and havebeen
found satisfactory. The WRMP PMUhas establishedandmaintained a good financial
managementsystem for the implementation ofthe WRMP. The WRMP PMU's financial
managementsystem i s capable o f supporting the implementation o f the proposedproject
inaccordancewiththe requirements ofOP 10.02. The flow offunds for the
Compensation Fundwill only beginafter appropriate internal control and fund-flow
procedures, satisfactory to IDA, have been adopted anddocumented inthe Project
Operational Manual.

        Becauseof the urgencyof launching the Project, MAFCP and the Bankhave
agreedto use an existingimplementingunit, the PMUo fthe WRMP, which will assume
responsibility for procurement. This PMUhas two experienced procurement staff (one
procurement specialist and aprocurement assistant) andhaspreviously implementedtwo
Bank financed projects; the WRMP i s the third. Their performance i s satisfactory to the
Bank and the staff i s capable o f handling properlythe procurement functions underthis
emergencyproject. The PMUwill facilitate the work o fthe Project Coordinators and
Task Force andis expected to prepare all procurement related documents. Giventhat the
WRMP is procurement intensive and is inthe peak o fits implementation, a local
procurement consultant will behiredto assist with the procurement packagesunder this
emergencyproject. The localconsultant should beknowledgeable inBank procurement.

4. Social
Poultryproduction i s an important source o f food and monetary income for a large
numberofrural families across Albania, with estimatesthat domestically rearedpoultry
range innumber from around 5 to 35 headsper family. Although there are several large
andanumber of medium-size commercial poultryproducers inAlbania, the vast majority
o fpoultry are kept by smallholders intheir backyards and managedbywomen with the
helpofchildren. Such families are disproportionately likelyto be inthe lower income
quintiles: according to the 2006 Country Assistance Strategy the ruralpovertyrate is 30
percent, at least 10percentagepoints higher than urbanpoverty, andruralresidents
comprise over two thirds o f the two poorest consumption quintiles.'



* WorldBankCountryAssistance Strategy for Albania, January 2006, p.6.

                                              13


         The consequences o f HPAIare likely to affect small-scale producers inmultiple
ways, even ifthey do not face destruction o ftheir animals. Small-scale producers in
Albania produce so-called field chicken (Pula Fushe) that are raised ina free-ranging
environment andhave a higher cost o fproduction than commercially produced chickens.
Changinghusbandry practices amongthe ruralpoor, such as encouraging them to enclose
their poultry to prevent infection, will not be easy because traditional practices are
strongly engrained and such changes will impose additional costs.

         The central roles o fwomen andchildren inmanaging backyardpoultry have
important implications for the project. Giventhe involvement o f children inmanaging
domestic birds (feeding, egg collection, herding also turkey, geese and ducks, etc.),
awareness and educational efforts need to ensure that children are effectively targeted and
reached with appropriately designed messages, through the schools. Reachingwomen
with critical HPAIawareness messagesandinformationwill, similarly,require specific
targeting and utilization o f suitable disseminationand outreach channels.

         Besides poverty, the principal social issue is farmers' trust andparticipation in
surveillance for the Avian Influenza, andinculling. Farmerswill be reluctant to report
sick birds ifthey do not believe they will receive compensation. Effective culling and
disposal also depends on cooperation o f the local workers. The public awareness and
information component will build support for surveillance and culling. The participation
of the local officials and veterinarians inthe regional public health and veterinary teams
is another factor inbuildingfarmers' trust. The government's rapidcompensation o f the
first cases o f HPAI-related culling at market rates inthe villages o f Cuka and Peze
Helmes have paved the way for farmers to believe they will receive compensation.

5. Environment
Activities under the Project are not expected to generate significant adverse
environmental effects as they are focused largely on public sector capacity buildingand
improved readiness for dealing with outbreaks o f avian influenza indomestic poultry and
humanhealth. These prevention-focusedactivities are expectedto have apositive
environmental impact as the Project's investments infacilities, equipment, andtraining
for laboratories will improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza
handlingandtestingprocedures bymeeting international standards established bythe
WHO and OIE. There are three environment issues that will be addressed inthe
environmental assessment (EA) and environmental management plan(EMP), which will
beincluded inthe Project OperationalManual: the procedures for culling anddisposal o f
poultry; and the handlingo f medical waste generated by laboratories andhealth care
facilities; and civil works associated with the rehabilitation o f labs andhospitals.

6. Safeguardpolicies
Since the Project supports investments incarcass disposal for culledpoultry and
investments inlaboratories andhospitals, and civil works (rehabilitation o f laboratories
andhospitals) it receives a Bcategory for safeguard screening. The Project Operational
Manual (a condition o f effectiveness) will include an environmental assessment (EA) and
environmental management plan(EMP) to address these issues. A waiver for the

                                             14


requirement to complete the EA and EMP duringproject preparationhas been sought and
obtainedper para. 12o f OP 4.01.

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness
The only policy exceptionrequested has beenwith regard to the waiver o f the completion
ofthe EA and EMPperpara. 12o f OP 4.01, which has beengranted. The project meets
the regional criteria for readiness for implementation.

                                         15


   Albania: Avian InfluenzaControlandHumanPandemicPreparednessand
                                 ResponseProject

                                     P100273


                                  APPENDICES

1.   Country and sector background
2.   Results framework andmonitoring
3.   a) Detailedproject description
     b) CompensationPlan
4.   Project coordination and implementation arrangements
5.   Project costs and financing-cost tables provided
6.   Procurement arrangements (plan requiredonly ifICB)
7.   Financialmanagement and disbursementarrangements
8.   Environmental and Social Issues and Safeguards Checklist
9.   National Veterinary Structure, April 2006


                                                  16


                     APPENDIX 1: CountryandSector Background

        The potential threat posed byHPAIis well documented inthe GPAIPAD. Since
the emergence of the global HPAIthreat and its spread to Europe, Albania has been
regarded as a country at strategic risk, due to its position inrelationto migratory bird
routes; the conditions under which poultry are reared; andits sharedborders with
countries with confirmed occurrences o fHPAIand/or that are also identified as countries
at strategic risk.

        The first case o fH5N1Avian Influenza inAlbania was confirmed on March 7th
2006 ina dead chicken from abackyard flock inthe village o f Cuka, inSarande district
inSouthernAlbania. Theresponse ofthe authorities to the outbreak was wellplanned
and executed. The main lessons learned are as follows:
    0   Outbreak severity was limitedbecause the majority o f chickens inthe village
        were confined.
    0   Evidence o f sero-conversion ina dog suggests potential for horizontal
        transmission o f the virus.
    0   Rapidpayment of compensation has resultedwidespread public confidence in
        government culling activities.
    0   Behavioral change as a result o f the public awareness campaign is not reaching all
        members ofthe community.
A second outbreak occurredinthe village ofPezeHelmesjust outside Tirana inMarch
2006, andwas also successhlly contained. The lessons learned from this second outbreak
further highlightedthe importanceofrapidimplementation ofquarantine andbio-security
measures, and the need to addressbottlenecks insurveillance anddiagnostic procedures.

        Given the conditions o fpoultry production, (85 percent ofpoultryis domestically
reared as free-range poultry, while the remaining 15 percent is reared on commercial
farms ranging insize from 500 to 220,000 heads), the continued exposure to potentially
infectedwild birds, andthe difficulty o f enforcing prevention and control measures such
as enclosing poultry andbanninghuntingandtrade andtransport o f live poultry, there is
considerable risk o f further outbreaks andthe spread of outbreaks.

        The spread ofavian flu among domestic poultry would have a serious effect on
Albania's economy, particularly inrural areas, where poverty rates are around 30
percent.lo approximate calculation shows that poultry production amountedto around
           An
8 percent o f total agricultural output and 2 percent of GDP in2004, a figure that has been
steadily increasing inrecent years. It is an important source o f food, andthe sale o f
domestically produced eggs andmeat, often priced at a premium ($7 market price for a
chicken and $31for a turkey), provides an important source o f income for rural families.



 See "Report of Outbreak of HighlyPathogenic H 5 N 1 Avian Influenza inVillage of Cuka, Albania",
Veterinary ResearchInstitute "Bilal Golemi" and Institute of Public Health"Hulo Haderi", March20,
2006.
loWorld Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Albania, January 2006.

                                               17


        The most direct economic impact o f an HPAIoutbreak will stem from the needto
cull poultry inaffected areas andoffer compensation to affected farmers for loss o f their
birds. Even inareas where a cull i s not necessary, other necessary measures to prevent
the spread o f the disease such as enclosing all poultry (which will increase the cost to
small farmers o f raising poultry due to housing andincreased feeding costs) and
prohibitingtransport o f and trade inpoultry, have already affectedthe industry andwill
continue to do so as enforcement i s strengthened. The spread o f HPAIto humans, andthe
mutation of the virus to a form transmissible betweenhumans, could have a devastating
effect on Albania, along the lines o fthe probable effect inother countries (see GPAI
PAD).

        The government has mounted a concerted response to the HPAIthreat, andhas
intensified this response since the first outbreak inAlbania. But investing newly-created
structures with the necessary mandates and authorities; communicating the messages
needed to prevent HPAIoutbreaks and control the spread o fthe disease among the
population and encourage farmers to participate inculling schemes; and strengthening the
country's public health and veterinarian systems to prevent anddeal with an outbreak,
pose significant challenges (details on the current status o finstitutions canbe found in
Appendix 3).

                                                 18


Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                        Risk                      Rating                 MitigationMeasure
        FromOutputs to Objective
Decline inpolitical commitment to addressing       H     Zontinuing support for inter-sectoral
HPAI and the threat o f a Global Influenza               :ollaboration through information exchanges
Pandemic and other infectious diseasesas a               inddialogue and operationalization ofthe
national priority.                                       Avian Influenza Task Force Secretariat (the
                                                         Secretariat), which i s to provide general policies
                                                         andguidance for avian influenza control.
Project implementing agencies do not have           S    Adequate implementation arrangements have
sufficient authority, leadership and capacity to         been put inplace; including the reactivation o f
take a leading role inavian influenza                    the Secretariat, chairedby the DeputyMinister
prevention and control.                                  o f Agriculture.
Intervention activities not effective in            S    Activities would strengthen response capacity in
                                                         priority areas inthe short- and mediumterm and
                                                         lay the foundation for a more broadly based
                                                         strategy, including:
                                                             Comprehensive awareness and
                                                             communication campaigns, critical to
                                                             containing the spread o f an influenza
                                                             pandemic.
                                                             Choosing well designed, cost-effective
                                                             interventions.
                                                          e Interventions phased and carefully
                                                             monitored, allowing for modifications and
                                                             redesignas needed.
                                                             Service delivery deconcentrated with the
                                                             maximum use o f local governments and
                                                             civil society.
                                                             GoodM&E to flag emerging issues
Inadequacy or lack o fmulti-sectoral               M     The Secretariat will, inter alia, ensure
participation                                            coordination and linkages across relevant
                                                         agencies and internationalpartners. Inaddition,
                                                         the multi-agency working group established as
                                                         the counterpart teamto work with IDA and
                                                         other donors inproject design will continue to
                                                         play a role during project implementation.
Low qark-level commitment means that                S    Implementation mechanisms explicitly address
strong central commitment does not translate             the linkbetweenthe required centralized
into action on the ground.                               decision making (the principle o f `direct chain
                                                         o f command') with the needed local-level
                                                         implementation; communication strategies will
                                                         include local-level implementing actors as
                                                         targets; capacity building includes periphery.
Lack of independentinternal audit function          S    Ensure that robust internal audit function is
                                                         independent from operations and reports to top
                                                         management and the Secretariat.

                                                19


                                                                         MitieationMeasure
      FromComponentsto Outputs
Lack o f laboratory capacity for prompt           H    Project activities willbe coordinated with
diagnosis and surveillance and o f sufficient          efforts undertaken by other international
 quantities of drugs and other medical inputs          organization such as WHO that have established
needed to address the needs of the general             an international anti-viral stockpile with
populationduring a pandemic                            donations from the pharmaceutical industry.
 Inadequate institutional capacity to manage      S    Capacity building and institutional development
the project.                                           i s one o f the project's key objectives.
 Financial resources not accessible ina timely    M    Procurement and financial management
 manner; weak procurement management                   arrangements will be supportedby experienced
                                                       staff from the WRMP PMU.
 Lack o f timely and predictable access to        M    Project activities have been designed with
 expert advice and technical support                   assistance from leading multilateral agencies
                                                       such as World Health Organization / UNteam
                                                       o f avian flu.
 Low priority given to public accountability      S    Publication o f audit results and achievements;
 andtransparency inprogrammanagement                   transparency indecision and resource allocation.
 Inadequate capacity for planned surveillance,    M    T e c h c a l assistanceand partnershipbetween
 surveys and monitoring & evaluation                   local and internationalinstitutions will be
                                                       provided. The M&Eplanwill include
                                                       informationon instruments for data collection,
                                                       agencies responsible and a detailed time table
 Misuse o f the CompensationFundfacility          S    Implementation arrangements for the
                                                       CompensationFundincorporate strong features
                                                       o f transparency, community involvement, and
                                                       ex-ante and ex-post checks that have been found
                                                       effective inthe countrv under other tlroiects.
 Overall RiskRating:                              S

RiskRating- H(HighRisk), S (SubstantialRisk),M(ModestRisk), N(Negligible or Low
Risk)

Corruptionis acknowledged, even byofficials within government, as a major issue in
the public sector, andthe project will be implemented inan environment o f high
perceived corruption. Inaddition to the risk mitigation measures highlighted below,
the Project will place strong emphasis on disclosure andtransparency and on
strengthened complaint handlingmechanism coupled with specific remedial measures.
A summaryo fmeasures isprovidedbelowinthe context o ffiduciaryrisk mitigation.
The corollary benefits regarding good governance are self-evident. The following
measures are incorporated inproject designto minimize the possible misuse of funds:


    0    Ex-ante controls. Appropriate ex-ante internal controls inthe poultry culling
         andcompensation program (outlined inAnnexes 3b and7) willbe
         implementedbefore any disbursement o fIDA resources for the Compensation
         Fund, andex-ante checks will be carried out before and compensation
         payments are made.
    0    Annual operational reviews. To supplement the annual project audit, an
         annual operational review will be carried out by external reviewers, acceptable

                                     20


  to IDA, who will reviewthe internal control framework andprocedures,
  especially for the Compensation Fund, and the inventories o f drugs, vaccines,
  medical and veterinary equipment, and other sensitive and/or expensive assets.
0 Prior review ofprocurement. Project procurement will be subject to prior-
  review inaccordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and with
  thresholds level indicated inAnnex 6.
0 Complaints mechanisms. A strengthened complaint handlingmechanism,
  especially for the Compensation Fund, will be put inplace to handle
  complaints regarding alleged misuse o f funds.
0 Transparency andpublic information. Information about project activities
  will be continuallypostedon a Project website.
0 Intensive supervision by IDA. The project, including procurement and
  financial management activities, will be intensively supervised by Bank staff in
  the Country Office andbyperiodic supervision missions.

                                                       21


                       APPENDIX 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

1              PDO                     Project OutcomeIndicators

 The project developmentobjective i s With regardto awarenessof HPAI         YR1 Gauge effectiveness of
 to strengthenthe country's capacity  threat andhow to prevent it:           ZovernmentHPAI strategy
 to preventthe spreadof avian         1.  Behaviorchangesamongkey            YR2 Determineif government
 influenzaamongpoultry, to prevent        veterinaryandpublic health         HPAI strategyneeds to be changed
 the transmissionofavianinfluenza         personnel                          YR3 Mainstreamlessonslearned
 frombirds to other animals and       2. Public awarenessof how to prevent   komHPAIstrategy into animal
 humans, andto prepare for a              spread increasesandbehavior        healthandpublic healthsystems.
 potentialpandemic of avianinfluenza      changes.
 transmissiblebetweenhumans.
                                      Withregardto HPAIoutbreaksamong
                                      poultry:
                                      1. Government culls birds at the
                                          infectionpointsfollowing
                                          internationalbestpractice
                                      2. Governmentprovidestimely
                                          compensationto farmers for culled
                                          birds
                                      3. Rapidandsystematic dissemination
                                          of diseaseinformation within
                                          relevantinstitutionsinthe country.
                                      4. Veterinaryservicesproviderapid
                                          andaccurateinformation to the
                                          OIE.

                                      With regardto HPAI outbreaksamong
                                      humans:
                                      1.  Infection diagnosedand contained
                                      2. Patientsreceiveappropriate
                                          treatment for HPAIinfection

   IntermediateOutcomes                   IntermediateOutcome                   Use of Intermediate
                                                   Indicators                  OutcomeMonitoring
 Target population informed about     55 percent o f at-risk population      YR1-YR3No change in
 public healthrisks and procedures    practicing safe handling procedures    behavior indicates needto
 associated with H P A I              with respect to poultry and poultry    review media and messages
                                      meat
 Albania specific animal disease      Annual updating o fH P A Iinfluenza    YR1-YR3 Inability to update
 control programdeveloped             andpreparedness and response plan      plan indicates the needto
                                                                             evaluate quality o ftechnical
                                                                             assistance
 Nationalveterinary services          NationalVeterinary Unitregularly       YR1- Inability to establishunit
 (including private sector) able to   reporting to OIE about status o f      indicates needto evaluate
 monitor and diagnose animal          nationalzoonotic diseases.             quality o f technical assistance
 diseaseconsistent with OIE
 standards                            IVRregularlysubmits samples to         YR 2 -Y3 Inability to report
                                      internationalreference laboratories    regularly and accurately to the
                                      for cross checking purposes ina        OIE indicates need to evaluate
                                      safe, regular independent manner.      quality o fproject management

                                                                             Y1-Y3 InternationalAH
                                                                             reference laboratories not
                                      Veterinary infectious diseases         receiving samples from
                                      laboratory fully developed with        Albanian indicates need to

                                                      22


                                   improvedbio-safety levels.           review staffing, protocols and
                                                                        procedures.
                                   50percent ofveterinary and
                                   extension field stafftrained in      YR2-YR3 Inability to increase
                                   diseases outbreak management and     bio-safety level and capacity
                                   safety protocols                     for testing samples indicates
                                                                        needto review staff
                                                                        competency, protocols and
                                                                        procedures

                                                                        YR1-YR3 Assess training
                                                                        program and use o f
                                                                        surveillance equipment.
Eradication o f disease before it  Two emergency response mobile        YR1-YR3 Inability to establish
becomes endemic                    eradication units established and    and operate unit indicates need
                                   operating                            to review equipment and
                                                                        training needs andproject
                                                                        management

                                   Compensation Fundo fUS$2.0           YR1- Failure to establish fund
                                   million established                  indicates needto review
                                                                        compensation procedures

                                   7-15 days elapsebefore               YR1-YR3 Inability to disburse
                                   compensation payments paid           funds ina timelymanner
                                   against legitimate claims            indicates a need to review
                                                                        detailedprocedures at national
                                                                        and local level

                                   70 percent o f poultry farmers inat- YR1-YR3 No change in
                                   riskareaskeepingpoultry pennedin behavior indicates needto
                                                                        review media and messages

Improvedplanning and               Coordination arrangements inplace    YR1-YR2: Identify gaps and
coordination o f communicable      and h c t i o n a l                  needs for additional support.
disease-related public health                                           Determine ifplans needto be
activities.                                                             changed

                                   Detailedresponse planprepared,       YR2-YR3: Review and
                                   including a detailed implementation  evaluate planand modify as
                                   plan for social distancing and       necessary
                                   hospital clean out plans.

                                   Simulation exercises conducted       YR2-YR3: Results o f
                                   each year and report produced and     simulation exercises and actual
                                   disseminated to all stakeholders.     investigation o f outbreaks used
                                                                        to identify need for
                                                                        information, training and
                                                                         equipment
                                   Notification o f Influenza like      YR1-YR2: identification of
influenza-like illnesses           syndromes improved. Hospital          gaps and needs for additional
                                   based sentinel surveillance for       supportftraining.
                                   influenza like syndrome system in
                                   place                                 YR2-YR3: Assess needto
                                                                         revise the strategy for alert,
                                   ALERT-early warning system for        investigation o f outbreaks and

                                                   23


                                   influenza like syndromes            response.
                                   fimctional.

                                  All IPHregional teams trained in
                                   influenza surveillance and control

 National Influenza Laboratory    NILcapacityto safely type andsub- YR1-YR3: Verify compliance
 safely collects, manipulates and  type viruses strengthened ( NIL at  with procedure and identify
 tests H P A I specimens.         bio-safety level 2)                  needs for changes and training

                                                                       YR1-YR3: Verify capacity to
 Timely transmittal o f specimens  5 days elapse betweencollection     respondto suspected outbreaks.
 to the UK reference laboratory    andtransmittal ofspecimens          Identifyneeds for training and
                                                                       additional support.

 National and regional teams able                                      YR1-YR3: Review procedures
 to investigate and respond to    2 teams at the national level and 12 and modify to prevent further
 influenza outbreaks              regional teams able to properly      infection
                                  respond to outbreaks in24 hours



                                   0 lab and IPHstaff contaminated
                                  with HPAI
 Public health system responds to  Staff guidelines for immunization   YR2-YR3: Assess guidelines to
 suspected or actual HPAI cases in against both seasonalflu and HPAI   ensure sufficient immunization
 humans                           completed                            coverage o fpopulations at risk.

                                   100percent o f IPHand at least 30   YRI-YR3: Review procedures
                                  percent o fhospital and PHC service   and modify to meet targets
                                  personnel vaccinated against
                                  seasonal influenza.

                                  40 percent o fpopulation at high risk YR1-YR3: Review procedures
I                                 vaccinated against seasonal           and modify to meet targets
                                  influenza
                                                                        YR2-YR3: Review
                                  3000 units o f anti-viral drugs      procurement and storage
                                  stockpiled                           procedures

                                  Operational plan to rapidly procure  Y2: Review plan and modify as
                                  anti-viral drugs completed           necessary

                                   12 isolationrooms established,      YR2-YR3: Assess progress in
                                  staffed and equipped inregional       establishing rooms and revise
                                  and Tirana hospitals                 procedures ifobjectives not
                                                                       met

                                  Guidelines on the use o f antiviral  YR2-YR3: Assess guidelines
                                  and on isolationand care produced     and dissemination methods
                                  and disseminated to staff,

                                  Key staff inregional and Tirana      Y2-YR3 Assess capacity o f
                                  hospitals (infectious diseases       hospital staffto isolate and treat
                                  departments, emergency service,       first cases o fpatients. Identify
                                  general medicine departments)         alternative strategies

                 24


know how to use anti-viral drugs
and able to adequately isolate and
treat patient with HPAI(suspected
or real cases).


     tia
     c2
     2




0    0

x
B      d
       3




8
E




       5
       U
       3
       A




3




3 3      0




       k
       0

 I      5a

        0
        x
        E

1
x
3




 1
 f  *0




  M
 *E
  go
 *
 r8

                     APPENDIX 3a: DetailedProjectDescription


ComponentI: PublicAwareness andInformation(US$460,600)

        An effective public awarenessand information dissemination campaignwill be
critical for promotingthe widespread adoption o fmeasuresto preventthe spread o f the
disease, by reducingthe risk o f animal to animal transmission; reducing the risk o f
animal to humantransmission; andpreventing the spread o fhumaninfluenza. Itwill also
be crucial for keepingthe populationinformedof developments.

        An inter-sectoral technical communication working group, with representatives
from the IPH, IVR, Ministryof Education, WHO, and UNICEF, hasbeen established as a
subsection o fthe National Coordination Committee for Avian Influenza, andhas started
working on a strategic communication planfor prevention ofHPAI. The Ministryo f
Education has already issued administrative guidelines for teachersto immediately start
awareness-raising activities inschools. The IPHhas a Department for HealthPromotion
which includes a central unit and anetwork of healthpromotionunits. This department
has important experience for example inconducting immunizationcampaigns. Some
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials have been developed by the
communications working group and disseminated, includinga television spot, leaflets
andposters for different target groups.

        Butconsiderablework isneededto createandimplementaneffective
communications campaign. A considerable proportion o fthe populationlives inrural
areas andinclose contact with poultry. Inthese areas, where risk o f an outbreak i s
greatest, poor information and awarenessposes aparticular problem, government
directives aimed at preventingandcontaining HPAIare most difficult to enforce, and low
levels o fpersonalhygienemay bepracticed. Ingeneral people are not well informedon
avian flu, ways o ftransmission, risks andprevention, and confising and conflicting
informationis propagatedincludingbymedia outlets. The communications response also
lacks effective coordination between the different stakeholdersthat have a role to play.

        This component is designed primarily to safeguardhumanhealth, inparticular for
extension staff, animal health workers, poultry producers andtheir families, byimproving
public awarenessandinformation. Itwill achieve this through assistanceindeveloping
the strategic communication plananddeveloping andtesting messagesand materials to
beusedto helppreventthe spreadofHPAIamong poultry andits transmission to
humans.Itwill further enhancethe structures inplace to coordinate communicationand
disseminate information from national to local levels, andbetweenthe public andprivate
sectors.

A.      RiskCommunication

The maingoal for outbreak communication is to communicate with the public inways
that build, maintainor restore trust, andprovide them with informationon the status o f

                                             30


HPAIinthe country, the government's strategy, andwhat theycando to mitigatethe
risk.

        To keep people informed about the current situation and actions beingtakenby
the government to detect the virus H5N1or to prevent its spread, a local
medidcommunicationsexpert will beappointed to headthe communications working
group o fthe government (to bepaidout o fProject funds). Inthe initial year of the
project, inconjunction with the communications working group, the expert will prepare a
risk communication plan and will identifythe ministryor institutionresponsible for
announcing updated informationto the general public through available media channels
on a periodicbasis. She or he will establish an effective working relationship and
interaction with the mediato update them on the situation andmeasuresbeingtaken and
will also establish amechanism for receivingfeedback from the public onthe levelof
awareness. She or he will also raise awarenessamong printedand electronic media
outlets on how to preventthe spreado f avian flu and identifyways media can helpwith
this (organize awarenessmeetings,prepare mediaadvocacypacks, FAQs to share with
mediarepresentatives).

        Inthe secondandthirdyearsoftheproject the communications expert together
with the communications working group will focus on sustaining communication
channels establishedinthe first year, and adjust information-sharing according to the
evolving situation and development of various global andnational scenarios. The main
activities will include maintaining communication channels with media andthe general
public; and continuing to collect feedback from the public on the level o f awareness for
the specific prevention/protection measure according to the outbreak phase.

          The institutionresponsible for overseeing anddeveloping the communication
plan, announcingupdatedinformation, and establishingafunctional relationship withthe
media, will be the AI TF's communication working group. The multi-dimensional
problems associatedwith HPAIinfectionnecessitatecollaboration betweena wide range
o f stakeholders: various ministries, IVR, IPHetc., NGOsand civil society organizations,
private sector companies and farmer associations. The communications working group
will also beresponsible for improvingthe effective coordination and collaborationamong
these stakeholders. The localmedidcommunicationsexpert beingappointed to headthe
TF's communications working group will advise the TF on all matters related to the
communications campaign. To facilitate effective dissemination on the current status of
HPAIinthe country andactions the government i s taking, the communicationworking
group andthe communications expert will have regular andfrequent contact with the
office o fthe PrimeMinister.

B.      Communicationfor BehaviorChange

This subcomponent will consist inthe first 6-12 months ofthe project o f apre-epidemic
campaignbothto makethe public aware o fthe needto handlepoultry and poultry
products more cautiously andto improvehygieneknowledge andpractices relatingto
normal human flu. The aims inthis phase are for keymessages to be identified and a set

                                               31


of IEC materials to beproduced for all target audiences; for professional staff (inall
relevant sectors) to be skilledincommunication for behavior changeto prevent spreadof
HPAI; andfor communities to beaware andempoweredto protectthemselves from
HPM.

B1: Preparation,ProductionandDistributionofIEC Materials.
Theprojectwill support materials targetingthe generalpublic and specific target groups:
children, teachers, health andveterinary personnel, local government, hardto reach and
Roma groups, andhunter's associations. The intersectoralcommunications working
group has identifiedkeymessages, target audiencesandhas designed a toolbox o fIEC
materials to be produced anddistributed. This group will define clear and concise
messages, analyze audiences andidentifychannelso f communication throughout the
interventionperiod. A set o f leaflets with basic prevention messages for children and
farmers has already beenproduced ( 20,000 copies) and a TV spot for the generalpublic
i s being aired inthe TVSH (a national TV channel). A rapidmedia assessmenti s
available ofthe main television channels, their coverage andmost popular viewing times.
The Minister of Healthhas officially requestedthe media to support broadcasting of
Public service announcements.

        For the first six monthso fthe project this subcomponent will supportproduction
andbroadcasting oftwo additional TV spots focusing on one or two specific messages
(handwashingandfood safety issues), ensuringbroadcoverage ofthe population. A
television documentary will beproduced focusing on backyard poultry management.
Increasedquantities of existing leaflets will bereproduced (150,000 copies) following a
rapidfield testing andnecessary adjustments. Posters focusing onpreventingHPAI
transmission will beproduced. A children's package adjusted for different grades with
games, puzzles and simple informationwill bepart o f a school package that will
complement the teachers guide for prevention o f avianinfluenza.

        Line ministries will provide administrative support and guidance to ensure
coordination o f all their structures inthe field. IEC materials will be distributedbythe
government structures (health, education, agriculture) andthe existingNGOnetwork.
Special distributiodoutreachstrategieswill bedeveloped for the most marginalized, hard
to reach andRomapopulationgroups.

        After the initialcampaign inthe first year ofthe project, this subcomponent will
aimto sustainthe campaign, by supporting efforts to achieve andmaintainthe proposed
behavior changes, and assessingthe impact o f aggressive social mobilization
interventions duringthe first six months. The inventoryo f TV spots and other IEC
materials will be updated based on continuous monitoring o fthe efficacy andacceptance
ofthe materials usedduringthe first year.

B2: CapacityDevelopment.
This subcomponentwill supportcapacity development for interpersonal communication
(IPC), andcommunication for behavior change. It will target media, professionals
(teachers, health andveterinaryprofessionals), and community groups (NGOs,youth

                                                32


 organizations community leaders). Training guidelineswill bepreparedby experts in
 ministries o fhealth, education and agriculture andwill include a trainers' manual, a
 unified field communications guide and apractical tool/guideline for teachers on how to
 develop extracurricular activities related to prevention ofHPAI. An inter-sectoral team
 o ftrainers will be identifiedat the national level andtrained on communication for
 behavior change. These experts will facilitate capacity development o f core resource
 people at the regionaland district levels that will be involvedinsocial mobilization.

         Duringthe first phaseactivities will mainlyfocus onthe 12highrisk districts.
 Local structures and community groups involved insocial mobilization will develop their
 capacities and skills inIPC and other communication techniques.Four training sessions
 per district will beorganized for the core district team, the teachers, andveterinary and
 health service providers respectively.

         Trainedpersonnel will be closely monitoredand followedup by a district
 supervisory team composedof four personsthat will conduct four visits permonth during
 the first phase o f the intervention.

         The secondphase(2007 andbeyond) will focus onthe remaining districts, and
 will fine-tune the capacity development methodology andtools, and define the adequate
 supervisory structure.

 B3: Social Mobilization.

.A coordinating structure will be establishedat eachdistrictwith representatives from the
 health, education, food and agriculture departments, community leaders, representatives
 of localNGOs, youth groups and localmediato coordinate work at district levels.
 Activities will focus on raising awarenesswith representativeso f local government and
 community groups, youth organizations, reporters, teachers andparents andhealth
 personnel, veterinary personnel and farmers. Local structures andcommunity groups
 involvedinsocial mobilizationwill develop their capacities andskills ininterpersonal
 communication (IPC) andother communication techniques. Socialmobilization activities
 will betailoredbythe audience andwill involverelevant professionals and influential
 individuals inthe community.

         Activities will beinitiatedinthe first year o f the project, and activities thereafter
 will buildon these activities andwill try to sustain behavior change and expand social
 mobilizationactivities.

 B4: Monitoring and Evaluation.
 After the first six months ofthe project a rapid assessmentwill beconducted to assess
 keybehavior o fthe populationrelatedto the suggestedpractices for change. Duringthis
 phasethe subcomponentwill also focus on mapping out o fmainsocial structures inthe
 district andthe commune level to assist inplanningof social mobilizationinterventions.
 Itwill conduct monitoringand supervisiono fcapacity development andsocial
 mobilization activities to ensure maximum impact; engaging local structures, youth
 organizations, social business structures. Inaddition a Knowledge, Attitudes and

                                                   33


Practices (KAP) survey will be conducted to monitor the impact o fthe communication
for behavior change activities on the targetpopulation.

        Inthe secondandthirdyears monitoringandevaluation interventionswill focus
on sustaining results achieved duringthe first year interms o f achieving andmaintaining
the proposedbehavior changes, assessingthe impact o f aggressive social mobilization
interventions duringthe first phase. Impact evaluation will be conducted through rapid
assessmentsand evaluations, focus groups and other qualitative methods.

Financingof ComponentI

This Component is beingconductedinclose coordinationwith other donors that bring
technical expertise inthe area of communications, and awealth o f experience conducting
such campaigns inAlbania and elsewhere. UNICEF i s the principalagency inthis regard,
with the support ofUSAID. Itis expectedthat UNICEF andUSAIDwill play aleadrole
inthe donor communityresponseto public awarenessandinformationneeds.

        Duringthe first six months ofthe project the activities described abovewill be
supportedwith funds from the UNandUSAID. Duringthis periodthe Project will cover
only the communications expert andher or his operating costs.

        After the first six months o fthe Project this Component maybewholly supported
throughproject funds. This maybe reconsidered ifcontinuedfundingi s available from
other sources, inwhich case any unspent funds will be available for reallocation as
necessary.

Component11:            AnimalHealth(US$3,698,200)

        The project will support anationalprogramto develop andimplement short and
longterm HPAIprevention, containment, and control anderadication activities in
animals. The activities includedinthe project reflect needs statedinthe "Albanian
NationalPandemic InfluenzaA/H5N1 Preparednessand ResponsePlan(Institute o f
Public Healthandthe Institute o f Veterinary ResearchJanuary 2006)"; inthe "Rapid
Assessment ofPreparednessandResponseAlbanian Capacities to confront a possible
Avian Influenza Epidemic Breakdown(WHO September 2005)"; and inthe "Veterinary
Border Inspection Posts Assessment (WHO 2004)"; as well as other relevant information
gatheredduringthe World BankPreparatioflre-Appraisal Mission(March 2006).

Current Status of Veterinary Services in Albania

        The StateVeterinary Services (SVS), established in 1928, is part ofMAFCP. The
SVS has gonethorough several restructuring processes, the most recent o fwhich took
place after the 2005 elections.'  ' Withinthe Directorate ofAnimal HealthandPlant
Protectionthere are 5 sectors: i)Sector o f Animal Health, ii)Sector o fPlantProtection,
iii)InstituteofVeterinaryResearch(thesecondofthemajorcounterpartsforComponent

  For an organigam representing veterinary structures see Appendix 9

                                               34


ItheProject),iv)Nationalveterinarycontrollaboratoryandv)Officeforanimal
identification.

        For administrative purposes, the country i s divided in 12regions. Eachregionhas
its MAFCP Regional Directorate, including the regional veterinary services, with one
Veterinary Chief Inspector and2 or 3 other veterinary inspectors. These Veterinary
regional teams are responsible for supervisingthe communes (each region is divided into
several communes, from 10 to 20 communes, depending on the region size). At the
commune level there should also be an authorized veterinarian, though not all communes
have a commune veterinarian. Of a total o f 308 communes about 60 percent do not have
a commune veterinarian. For these communes the higher level veterinary agencies
(district andregional veterinary offices) hire the services o fprivate veterinarians, to
ensure full coverage o f the country with veterinary expertise. Therefore under the
authority o f the SVS there are about 243 authorized commune veterinarians, plus an
additional 400 to 500 private veterinarians contracted with annual contracts.

        Besidesthese structures, parallel MunicipalVeterinary Services operate all over
the country at the local level, with a total o f about 200 veterinarians. According to the law
these veterinarians report to the SVS but inpractice they operate independently.
Coordination andenforcing the law are key issues to bringtogether the two
administrative frameworks, since they share common objectives indisease control.

        Finally a large number o fprivate veterinarians (estimated at approximately 2,000)
operate independently from the SVS. The new veterinary law introduces the concept o f
Chamber o f Veterinarians, to integrate them and introduce the appropriate benefits and
obligations. However this law i s not yet operational as no sub-laws or regulations have
been developed. As a consequence, there are a large number o f veterinarians operating
largely or totally independently o f the SVS and the laws regulating the veterinary sector.
Added to this i s the fact that the SVS, though set up and staffed, has limited operational
capacities due to lack o f resources (for example communication systems, discontinued
training programs), lack o f a clear mandate, andunderdevelopedsub-laws, regulations
and protocols. As a result it is not clear that the SVS can be assessedas operational
according to minimuminternational standards.

        The government recognizes the need for expansion o f humanresources and
capacities inthe veterinary sector, but does not have resources available to support hiring
o f additional staff. This component o f the project will support the existing SVS structure
as the most effective means to achieve major impacts inHPAIprevention and control,
andsustainable improvements inanimal health ingeneral.

A.     EnhancingHPAI Prevention and Preparedness Capability

A1:Strengthening the NationalPolicy Regulatory Environment.
InApril 2004 Albania passedanew Law onVeterinary Service andInspectorate that
regulates the organization, functioning and financing o fthe veterinary service and
inspectorate, and the authority and the duties o f the veterinary administration. This

                                                     35


subcomponent will provide technical assistanceto support the much-needed development
o f sub-laws, regulations and protocols inaccordancewith OIE standards andguidelines.
This will includedevelopingguidelinesandmanuals, especially inchapters andarticles
of the new law dealing with disease control, surveillance, and eradication. This
component will be extendedto develop new regulations, sub laws and statutes ensuring
coordinationbetween the private and the public veterinary sector, so that Albania has a
coherent nationalveterinary body.l2

A2: ImprovingHPAI Preventionand ControlPlanning.
This subcomponent willprovide technical assistanceinthe fieldof animal epidemiology
andanimal diseasediagnosis, to help improveAlbania's animal diseasecontrolcapacity
andaddressthe inter-related issues neededto achieve effective response.A
multidisciplinaryteam composedo fnational and international experts and national
veterinary staffwill monitor, improve andupdate the existing"Albanian National
Pandemic InfluenzaA/H5N1 Preparedness and ResponsePlan" on a regular basis. The
project will support participation o fVeterinary Services officials andproject staff in
regionaland international information exchange and dissemination of expertise on avian
influenza. The short-term objective i s improvement o f capacity andpreparedness for
preventingandcontrollingHF'AI. The long-term objective i s to lay down a framework for
dealing with other zoonotic diseases inAlbania, such as brucellosis, rabies, tuberculosis,
and others. The planshall represent a flexible base for developing project implementation
strategies andmonitoringtools.

         This subcomponentwill also support planningandimplementationof apilot
study aimedto introduce andpopularize enclosure ofback yardpoultry. This studywill
include 3-5 villages from different parts of the country, inpreviously established high
risk areas (near major wetlands andwild birdhabitats). Baseline data on poultry
management will be collected prior the study and compared with the data collected after
poultry management improvement implementedthrough the study. Improvementofback
yardpoultrymanagement will be promoted byprovisiono f fences andmaterials for
poultry enclosure and also animal feed to participatingfarmers. Distribution o fthis aid
will be accompaniedbyveterinary supervision ofpoultryhealthandeducation ofthe
farmers on bio-safety procedures and GoodAgricultural Practices (GAP).13The pilot
studyresults willbeusedinapromotionalcampaign inorder to encourageback yard
poultry farmers across the countryto adopt recommendedpoultry management practices
andtherebyreducethe risk ofcontact betweentheir poultry andpotentiallyinfected wild



  Crucially relevant to this project subcomponent willbe the already existing reports provided to the
Albanian Veterinarian Authorities by the project WHO-CARDS 2003 "Strengthening o f Veterinary and
Phytosanitary Border Crossing Points", including 1) General guidance when importing animals and
products o f animal originto Albania, where all the EUregulations regarding veterinary inspectorate
systems are included; and2) Comparative studybetweenthe current Albanian Veterinary Law and the EU
Acquis.
l3Since it is unfeasible to introduce formal systems for quality control (llke HACCP) at farm level, quality
insurance is regulatedthrough guidelines and recommendations on which farm practices are desirable and
beneficial interms o f food safety. GAP guidelines canbe found as part o f legislation inmany countries and
also are developed by relevant international organizations involved inagriculture.

                                              36


birds.The results ofthe pilot studywill also beusedto attract support from other donors
for interventions to support poultry sector managementprojects.

B.       Strengthening Disease Control Capacities: Improving Surveillance,
Diagnostic Capacities and Applied Research.

This component will support activities to strengthennationalveterinary services and
enhance animal disease surveillance, diagnostic andresearchcapabilities. The component
will have the following sub-components:

B1: Strengthening Veterinary Epidemiologic Surveillance.
An epidemiological unit exists as partofthe SVS, andepidemiologists work within the
regionalveterinary service. However, these epidemiologists do not have a clear definition
o f duties andresponsibilities, and structured epidemiological investigations have never
been carried out inthe country.

         This subcomponentofthe project will providetechnical support to updatethe
relevant legislationto strengthen intra-service coordination. This will include institutional
andorganizational restructuring andtraining o fstaffaimedto speed surveillance
dynamics andinformation flow. This subcomponent will also assist upgrading o fpriority
infrastructure (equipment, materials andsupplies, and technical assistance).

         Duringthe first phaseoftheproject special emphasiswillbeplacedondetecting
cases o f suspectedHPAIinpoultry andother domestic animals by introducing
appropriate early detection systems at the village level, payingspecial attention to high-
risk areas. Engagement o f five veterinarians assignedto regional veterinary services in
identifiedhighrisk areas (major wetlands inthe country) will be supported bythe project
for first two years, to be financed thereafter by the government. These veterinarians will
be responsible primarily for monitoringpoultry health, initiatingthe responseto any
suspect cases andreporting regularlyto veterinary agencies at the nationallevel.
Secondarily theywill be incharge o fmonitoring any indicative changes inbehavior o f
wildbirds, incooperationwith staffo fthe MinistryofEnvironment operating at the
regionallevel.

        Monitoringo fwild birds is currently under supervision o fthe Ministry o f
Environment, which preparesreports incooperation with the Faculty o fNatural Science
and different NGOs. Their efforts will be supported bythe projectthrough acquisition o f
requiredequipmentthat will facilitate expansion ofthese activities.

        Capacity buildingfor veterinary epidemiology surveillance will be supported
through the establishment o f a National Veterinary EpidemiologicalUnit(NVEU), with 3
veterinarians, anda database specialist working at the Central Administration Level, one
o fwhom will beresponsible for communicationwith the Veterinary Directorate andthe
Institute of Veterinary Research. Inaddition this subcomponentwill provide 12field
veterinarians, one for eachRegionalDirectorate. The project will provide technical
assistance for establishing the NVEUwith an international veterinary expert on

                                              37


epidemiology and animal disease surveillance. Financingo fthe NVEUwill be covered
byprojectfunds for the first 2 years, after which itwillbe fully integratedinto the SVS
and supportedby the government. Project finalizationwill include final evaluation and
further recommendations for maintenance, continuationandupdatesofthe unit.The
government will commit to maintainingthe NVEUafter completionof the project.

B2: Strengthening of NationalDiagnostic Capacities and Increasing Bio-Safety
levels.
This subcomponent will support the Institute ofVeterinaryResearch(IVR) inits efforts
to provide, systematic, safe, quick andreliable diagnostic capacities. The IVRhas the
capacity to performroutine influenza diagnostics andAI virus typing.

        As part ofthe ongoing restructuringofthe SVS, the IVRwill bemergedwiththe
Institute of FoodResearchunder a single institution, the Institute of VeterinaryResearch
andFoodSafety. The buildingofthe IVR, where the animal infectious diseases
department is currently located, will include the Food Safety and Consumer protection
related laboratories. An existingbuildingofthe IVRi s to be reconstructed, adjusted and
modernized inorder to include all relatedAnimal Health laboratories, includingthe
virology laboratory.

        Diagnostics kits and equipmentrelated to the improvement of testing capacity for
HPAIhave beenprovided to the IVRby USAID funding for 2006, meaning that the
Project will only cover such expenses for the period after this. As identifiedimmediate
needofthe IVRthe project will support acquisition o f aReal TimePolymeraseChain
Reaction (PCR) andrelated training.

        Theproject will support the renovation o fthe future animalhealthlaboratory
buildingbyallocating resourcesfor the related civilworks including appropriate
laboratory infrastructure. The creation ofthe new animal healthlaboratories will be
accompaniedby an appropriate buildingrenovation, with technical assistanceprovided
through an animal healthlaboratory expert. It i s not possible to determine the necessary
allocation for this expense givenuncertainty over the future institutional arrangementsfor
anduse ofthe national animal healthlaboratory andthe associatedinfrastructure needs.
Therefore the allocation for this itemi s subject to change once the future institutional
framework hasbeendecided andthe necessarycosts clarified. Inthe longterm this
investmentwill strengthenthe diagnostic capacities ofthe NationalAnimal Health
Veterinary Laboratory System so the SVS can control andwork to eradicate the main
zoonotic diseases inAlbania (avian influenza, tuberculosis, brucellosis, anthrax,
leptospirosis, rabies, etc.). Support through this subcomponent will include technical
assistancefor: standardization o fmethods andprocedures for laboratory diagnostics;
improvement of laboratory safety andwaste disposal procedures; strengtheningbio-
safety duringtransportation o f samples; strengtheninghumanresource capacity;
strengtheningcommunication between veterinary andhumanlaboratories at the central
andregional level; andpreparationo fguidelines andtraining programsfor the
establishmentofthe quality control systems andbio-safety manual.

                                              38


        The project will support the establishment o freliable means for transportation o f
samples from Albania to the internationalveterinary reference laboratories for diagnosis
confirmation.

        Several regional animal health laboratories, providing analysis for animal disease
control, receive technical assistanceand laboratory equipment under existingdonor
projects. However a disproportionate number o fveterinary laboratories inAlbania
relative to testingrequirements hasbeennotedinseveralprevious assessments. The
project therefore does not support these laboratories incapacity to test for HPAI. Ifthe
numberof samples needingto betestedincreasesbeyondthe capacity ofthe central
laboratory, the need to include some o fthe Regional Veterinary Laboratories inthe HPAI
laboratory detection systemwill be evaluated. Ifthis happens laboratory staff from some
o fthe key identifiedregions will be included inthe Project's laboratory training
component.

        The mainproblemfacedbyAlbania's veterinary laboratories is not lack of
equipment and staff, but the absence ofa fwnctional and fully operational system for
providing regular submission o f samples to laboratories for different testing purposes.
The creation o fthe NVEUshould serve to better integrate the Veterinary Directorate and
Veterinary Laboratories intheir commonmandate o f animal diseasecontrol.

B3: StrengtheningAnimalDiseasesInformationSystems.
This subcomponent will provide technical assistanceto support the development o f
analytical capacity and a uniform diseaseinformationsystem inAlbania, so that Albanian
veterinary servicescanparticipate inglobal disease informationsharing. This will enable
the SVS to comply with its obligations as a membero f the OIE, thereby contributing to
better global and regional diseasecontrol and eradication. The system will be linkedwith
rapid and standardizedmethods o froutine analysis o f surveillance data, which will be
able to detect important changes inthe H5N1situation, andpromptly supply this
informationto relevant personnel.

C.      StrengtheningHPAIControlProgramsand OutbreakContainmentPlans

Control o fHPAIinanimals i s the principalmeans to reduce opportunities for human
infection, and consequently reduce opportunities for a pandemic virus to emerge. This
subcomponentwill support the implementation o fHPAIoutbreak containment actions.
The overridingobjective for the overall Albanian veterinaryservices is eradicationofthe
disease at the source o f infectionbefore it becomes endemic.

C1: TargetingVirus Eradicationatthe Source.
Theproject will support the Albanianveterinary services to mobilizethe necessary
physical andhumanresourcesto respond quickly and effectively to contain and eradicate
HPAIoutbreaksat the source. The steps that needto beinplace include: (a) destruction
of infected and at-risk poultry; (b) compensation to farmers and industrialpoultry
producers at an agreeduponmarket-oriented price; (c) disposal o f carcassesand
potentiallyinfectivematerials ina bio-secure and environmentally acceptablemanner;

                                              39


and(d) control ofmovement ofbirds andproductsthat maybe infected, including
controls at the interface o f infectednon-infected areas andborder controls.

         As previouslymentioned, the project will support the creation of aNational
Veterinary EpidemiologicalUnit.Apart from epidemiological andresearchtasks, the unit
will beresponsible for leadingthe emergencyresponseinHPAIoutbreaks, helpingto
coordinate the above tasks. Iti s envisagedthat the unitwill have at a central leveltwo
mobile subunits, prepared at any time to travel to reportedpotential outbreak areas with
the requiredequipment and trained staff. The mobileunits will lead, as per OIE
standards, eradication at the source. The project will support creation, training, staffing
andprovision of equipment for these units.Notethat vaccinationmaybe consideredif
the diseasebecomes endemic andprevious approachfails.

         A manual ontechnical procedures for emergencyresponseto HPAIoutbreaks
will be developed, disseminated andincorporated inthe fieldveterinary services. The
manual might include guidelines on: access to suspectedinfectedpremises; preliminary
investigation; samplingand transportation o f samples; confirmationo fHPAI;
depopulation and disposal o fdead birds; disposalldestructiono f infectedmaterials;
disinfectionof infected premises; additional investigations, data collection and sampling;
list o f equipment to be usedalong with its locationand quantities; list of disinfectants
along with the guidelines for their use; andinformation flow charts and contact
information for all relevant personnel.

C2: HumanSafety
Veterinarians, public health personnel and individualsparticipatinginHPAIcontrol and
eradication activities are at increasedrisk o f exposureto HPAI, due to prolonged, direct
contact with infectedbirds andor contaminatedsurfaces. They canminimize their
exposurebyusingadequateprotective equipment and following standard set regulations
andsafety protocols. Surveillance andmonitoringofexposedworkers is also important.

         This subcomponentwill support provisionoftrainingo fpeople likelyto be in
direct contact with birds and other animals that may carry the live virus (veterinary and
extension field staff involved inthe identificationo fthe disease, farmworkers involved
incullingandindisposing ofmanure, andlaboratoryworkers involvedinvirusisolation
anddiagnosis). Adequate resourceswillbe allocated for training andequipment (bio-
safety hoods and appropriate personalprotective gear andclothing). Inaddition, all
veterinary staffand workers will be vaccinated against seasonalhumaninfluenza.

C3: CompensationFund
A successfullivestock cullingprogram, critical for preventing the spreado fHPAI
outbreaks, canbeimplementedonly iffarmers cooperate and submit their animals for
culling. Farmers require credible assurancesthat they will be compensated for the loss o f
their poultry. InAlbania there is a legalbasis for compensation for culled livestock, as
well as written procedures for implementation o fcompensation. Compensation has
already beenconducted inthe HPAIoutbreak that occurred inFebruary to March 2006.
However, experienceo f compensating farmers for culled livestock varies widely by

                                              40


region, andthe system to date has only been usedon a much smaller scale, andcould be
overwhelmed inthe event of a serious HPAIoutbreak.

         This subcomponent will set up a Compensation Fundandwill ensure that the
legal basis is adequate for the compensation o f culledbirds resulting from an HPAI
outbreak. It will also establish the necessary procedures and entities for implementation
o f an effective culling andcompensation procedures across the country. This will build
on the current procedures, with introductiono f additional measures based on relevant
experience from other countries. Measures appropriate for small-scale poultry farmers
and industrial farms will be designed. Priority actions will take place inareas at
particularly highrisk, but the aim will be to create a compensation scheme that can be
executed across the entire country. The CompensationFundwill be fundedto
$2,000,000. The necessary fiduciary andcontrol mechanisms for the fundwill be set up
within the Project Operational Manual. (See Appendix 3b for details).

Component111: HumanHealth(US$1,600,000)

A.       EnhancingCoordinationand ProgramPlanning

The Ministry o fHealth has prepared andmonitors implementation o f a national
contingency plan. The InfluenzaCommittee at the Ministry o f Health i s incontinuous
contact with Civil Emergencies andCrises Committee at the Ministry o f the Interior. At
present, none o f the members o f the Influenza Committee or MOHcan work full time on
HPAIcoordination andplanning

         A Unitfor CivilEmergencyplanning andResponsehas beenestablished within
the MOH. However, this unit has no real capacity (one staff memberis about to retire and
there is a lack o f equipment). Coordination andlinks with other MOHdepartments and
healthinstitutions across the country appear to be weak.

         At this point intime, there isno one documentprovidinga detailedassessment o f
the situation inAlbania andno clear analysis o f strengths and weaknesses. A National
Pandemic Influenzapreparedness andresponse plan(contingency plan-dated February
2006) has beenpreparedjointly bythe IPHandthe IVR.It covers five main areas: a)
planningandcoordination; b) monitoring andassessment; c) preventionandcontainment;
d) health system response; andd) communication. Itdefines the tasks to be carried out at
each phase and each alert level.

         Overall, the Planprovides general guidance for action. However, it i s generic and
not particularly operational as it does not identify clearly and precisely enough
institutions andindividuals responsible for different actions. At the MOHlevel, there is
not yet a detailed pandemic influenza preparedness plan.

         Theproject will fundandprovide technical support for: (i)    strengtheningintra-
sectoral command and sector coordination mechanisms; and, (ii)      regular revisions,
updating and further detailing of the MOH contingency planwith a view to more clearly

                                                   41


define operational priorities androles andresponsibilities of stakeholderswithin the
health system. This subcomponentwill also finance: a) the development of a detailed
implementationplan for "social distancing" measuresinthe case of an epidemic; b) the
preparation o fthe training program for health sector staff (lab, investigation teams, staff
inhospitals); andc) regular simulation exercise^.'^

         Theproject will finance the development of a detailed implementation planfor
so-called "social distancing" and "hospital clean-out" measuresto be activated incase o f
an epidemic. Social distancing measureswill typically be activated on advice from health
professionals and institutions, although they will not bethe enforcing agencies. The
implementationplanwill have therefore to explicitly define institutionalresponsibilities
for activationand enforcement o f social distancing measuresandfor inter-agency and
inter-ministerialcoordination. Additional preventive actions that will complement social
distancing(such as personalhygiene promotionthrough various communication
channels, including hand-washingandproper cooking, and distributionanduse o fmasks)
will also be supported. Support will also beprovided for the preparation ofmeasuresto
betaken to protect health care workers andensurethat they will be willing andcan
continue to be at work inapandemic situation (includingprotection and compensation
measuresfor the risks involved).

B.       Strengthening National PublicHealth Surveillance System (Human Health)

The Institute ofPublicHealth-IPHis the NationalFocalpoint for Influenza(Human
publichealth).The NationalInfluenzaLaboratory (NIL)ispart ofthe Virology
Laboratory o fthe IPH.It i s the only reference center able to performinfluenza diagnosis
inAlbania. TheNILcanreceive andanalyze (typingandsub-typing) specimensandis
usedto send specimens for confirmationto the international reference laboratory
(European InfluenzaCenter inLondon, UK).The NationalInfluenzaLaboratoryi s
presentlyat bio-safety level-BSL 2. Ithowever lacks equipment (including a RT-PCR),
protective personal equipment for lab staff, kits andreagents and consumables. There i s
an obvious needto re-trainthe laboratory staff for them to fully implementprotocols and
procedures as well as to train staff o fthe regionalIPHs to enable them to adequately and
safely collect and send specimens.

         Surveillance o f Influenzai s conducted throughthe Albanian Statutory Integrated
Surveillance System o f Infectious Diseases. This system combines: a) notification o f
seasonal influenza throughthe Major Disease-basedSurveillance System(up to daily
notificationfrequency duringseasonal influenza epidemics,); andb) weekly notification
of upper andlower respiratory infections throughthe Alert Syndrome Based Surveillance
System (Early Warning System). Influenzasurveillance needs to be strengthened
through: a) the establishment o f ahospital based sentinel system for influenzalike illness;
(b) investigationandcollectionofspecimens for diagnostic testing andvirus sub-typing
bythe NILwhen acase is reported; c) confirmation o fresults (positives, somenegative)



l4Training o fPHC staff is an important element. The government of Albania will seek another partner to
finance this cost.

                                                   42


bythe UKreferencelaboratory; andd) outbreak investigation andcontainment measures
inareaswithconfirmed humancases.

         The project will fund andprovide technical support for improving the IPH-NIL
laboratory services. The project will finance: a) the re-training o f the NILandregional
IPHstaff; b)Equipment(notably arealtimePCR), kitsandreagentsandlabconsumables
including bio-safety boxes for the transport o f samples; c) Protective personal equipment
for laboratory staff and; d) one incinerator.

         The project will support the IPHandregional epidemiological investigation and
responseteams through: a) assisting with transport; b) the re-training o f staff; c) the
provisiono fpersonalprotective equipmentand other materials (manual pumps and
disinfectants); and d) communications equipment.

C.       StrengtheningHealthCareResponseCapacity

At this point intime the system appearsrelativelyunpreparedto respondto the first
humancases, let alonecopewith apandemic. Seasonalinfluenza vaccination remains
limitedandthe MOHhas a verylimitedstock (about 200 treatments) ofanti-virals. The
situation inthe hospital makes it impossible to properlyisolate andtake care o fhighly
infectious patients. Healthworkers will needto be re-trained inmany aspects andwill
needto beprovidedwith protective personal equipment.

C1: Vaccinations.
This subcomponentwill help expandregular seasonal flu vaccination for targetedpriority
groupst5(as definedinthe contingency plan). It will also finance the development of a
detailed logistical (procurement and distribution) planfor mass vaccination should an
HPAIvaccine become available.

C2: Anti-virals.
This subcomponentwill provide support for the purchaseand distribution o f anti-viral
drugs inaccordancewith WHO guidelinesand arrangements andadoption ofmeasuresto
avoid inappropriateuse (to limit the development o f antiviral resistance). One type o f
drugis recommendedfor treatment of avian influenzainfections: neuraminidase
inhibitors (oseltamivir andzanamivir). However, the availability o f influenza anti-viral
medications i s limited. Therefore, planningby healthagenciesi s neededto assure
effective use of available drugs. To this end, support will beprovided for developing
guidelinesandeducating physicians, nurses, andother healthpersonnelbefore and during
the pandemic to promote effective use of these drugs. Giventhe current worldwide
shortage of the drugandthe limited stock available to the countries, priority will have to
begivento population groups most exposedto immediate risk.



'*Including childrenbelow 5 and persons over 65 years of age, residents of nursing homes, childrenand
adults with chronic disorders of the pulmonary and cardiovascular systemor chronic metabolic diseasesor
immuno-suppression.

                                              43


C3: Strengtheningmedicalservices.
Assistance will beprovidedto the M O H for preparednessplanningand strategy
development to provide optimal medical care andmaintainessential community services.

        To this end, the project will provide: a) support for the establishment of isolation
rooms in 12 regionalhospitals and inTirana Hospitals; b) equipment o fthe isolation
rooms andwhere neededthe provisionof incinerators for the elimination o fwaste; c)
emergency stocks o f antibiotics and consumables, d) protective equipmentfor health
workers and, d) the training and retraining o f staff at all levels o fthe healthcare system.

        Meanwhilethe project will support the preparation o fplansandmeasuresfor the
development o f specialized units inselected hospitals andto increasebedavailability in
case of apandemic. Incase o f a declared influenza pandemic, this component will
finance emergency imports identifiedas necessaryunder a well-defined preparedness and
responseprogramto beprepared as part o fproject implementation. These imports are
likely to include: (i)pharmaceuticals andvaccines; (ii) supplies and equipment;
                                                           medical
(iii)communication equipment, suppliesandinformation campaigns; (iv) food andwater
containers; and (v) protective clothing.

ComponentIV:          Supportto Avian InfluenzaTask Forcefor Project
Implementation(US$341,200)

        Theproject will support the strengtheningofpublic structures for the coordination
andmanagementofthe project, including central and local (decentralized) arrangements
for coordination o f activities, financial management andprocurement.

A.         Establishinga PermanentSecretariatfor the Task Force

This sub-component will support institutionalstrengthening andcosts associatedwith
project coordination.

        A National InfluenzaPandemic Committee (the Task Force) was establishedin
October 2005. It i s an inter-ministerialand inter-sectoral decisionmakingbody chaired
bythe DeputyMinister ofAgriculture andcomposed ofrepresentatives from the
Ministries o fHealth, Education, Interior, Environment, Finance etc. The TF meets
regularly. However, it has hadno permanent Secretariatwith full time staffworking to
coordinate detailed planningand crisis managementand ensure regular monitoringand
supervision o f activities.

        To enswe effective operation o fthe TF apermanent Secretariat will be
established, supportedby hlltime dedicated staffto overseeHPAIcontrol and
eradicationoperations. The projectwill cover the costs o ftwo consultants, one
specializing inveterinary health andone inhumanhealth, appointed as full time Project
Coordinators. These Project Coordinators were appointed inMarch 2006 inorder to
assist with Project preparation. They will be supportedby two internationaltechnical
assistants(inAlbania for 2 months to start andthen short regular visits duringat least the

                                                44


first year o fthe project-for  instance one week a month). Together the two Project
Coordinators willberesponsible for following through on the decisions o f the TF and
ensuringthat the appropriate entities are takingthe necessaryactions, for coordinating the
responses o f different entities; and for liaisingwith donors working onHPAIresponse.
Their first tasks should bea) to conduct a detailed assessment o f strengths and
weaknesses, b) operationalize the contingency plan and, c) further improve coordination
of activities betweenhumanhealth and veterinarian services. Theywill also be
responsible for compilingthe Project Operational Manual, reviewingannual work plans
andensuring coordination andlinkages acrossrelevant agenciesandinternational
partners. Inadditionthey will beresponsible for MonitoringandEvaluation. Their full
Terms o fReferencewill be included inthe Project Operational Manual.

        The Secretariat o fthe TF will be entrusted with coordinating implementation of
the Project, andwill comprise the two Project Coordinators, inaddition to staff appointed
as necessary for overall administration, coordination withprocurement and financial
management staff, andmonitoring and evaluation. The fiduciary tasks o fprocurement
and financial managementwill be assignedto specially appointed staffinthe pre-existing
P M Uinthe Ministryo f Agriculture that is implementingthe Water Resources
Management Project (WRMP).

        The Secretariat, under the overalldirection ofthe TF, will be responsible for
coordinating with relevant government departments to guide andmonitor project
implementation at the central and local levels. The relevant government department will
beresponsible for the preparation ofannual work programs (WP) andbudgetsas well as
quarterly and annualproject managementreports (PMRs). The Secretariatwill be
responsible for consolidating the annual work programs andbudgetsfor submission to
their relevant ministries andthe Bank. They will be responsible for coordinating and
overseeing the structures described inimplementation arrangements: the IVRandIPH
investigations teams, and the regional teams.

B.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

B1: Training.
This sub-componentwill support traininginparticipatorymonitoring and evaluationat
all administrative levels, a mid-term evaluation workshop, and development o f an action
planfor M&Eandreplicationofsuccessfulmodels. It will support the following
activities:

     1, TraininginM&E;
    2. Developinga M&Eplan for the specific countryprojects;
    3. Implementation o fbaseline studies;
    4. Mid-Term evaluation o fthe project;
     5. On-going participatory monitoring and evaluation; and
    6. Finalproject evaluation.

These activities will be conducted by the Project Coordinators.

                                            45



B2: Program Monitoringand ImpactEvaluation.
The Project Coordinators will also beresponsible for developing project monitoring and
impact evaluation assessments. Two types o fM&E are envisaged:

B2(1) Monitoring ofproject implementation. This is a function o fthe Secretariat, which
will collect relevant data from lineministries andother implementationagencies andthen
compile them into semi-annual or quarterlyprogress reports (as the case may be)
focusing on status o fphysicalimplementation by component, use ofproject funds and
monitoring indicators. Specific surveys will be conducted to obtain data for this purpose.
Annual expenditure reviewswill beconducted to assess government commitment to
strengthen the public health functions as measuredbybudgetaryallocations andtheir
distribution by activity.

B2(ii) Impact evaluation. The aim o f evaluation i s to assesswhether the interventions are
effective or the Program i s havingthe desired impact. The evaluation will include both
quantitative andqualitative aspects andbe conducted on an annual basis. The quantitative
aspectswill rely on new informationsystems and surveys implemented as part of the
various components o fthe project, currently existing data sources, andprimary
evaluative data collection efforts. The goal o fthe qualitative aspect o fthe evaluation
will be to document perceptions ofprogram managers, staff, patients, andlocal and
national leaders.

                                             46


                          APPENDIX 3b: CompensationPlan


Earlydetection andreporting, as well as rapidresponse, depend critically onthe
incentives for poultry owners to report very quickly any sick anddead poultry to
veterinarians. Without adequate compensation arrangements inplace, poultry owners
have no incentive to do this, andwill fear that with the destruction o ftheir animals they
will lose this valuable capital.

        The 2004 Law on Veterinary Services and Inspectorate confirms the right o f
fanners to compensation for the elimination o f diseased animals, and determines the
procedures for culling andcompensation. The law i s implemented by an ordinance issued
byMAFCP, authorizingregional agriculture directorates to use veterinary funds for
compensation for destroyed animals. The value o f culled animals is determined by
commission, comprising a representative from the local government (at the commune or
municipality level), a local government veterinarian, and a representative o f the regional
veterinary directorate (who serves as commission chairman). The commission also
confirms the number o f culledpoultry. These procedures have been successfully
employed inparts o f Albania for animal diseases, including for the recent outbreak o f
HPAIinCuka.

        Inthe event offurther HPAIoutbreaks inAlbania, under component I1the Project
will provide support for cullingand elimination o finfected andat-risk poultry, with
compensation to farmers and commercial poultry producers based on the existing legal
fkamework. Accurate lists will be kept o f all poultry culled, so that the culling committee
can calculate the compensationthat will go to each poultry owner. Strict requirements
will apply to recording, reporting andverification o fpoultry culling, compensation
claims andpayments.

        Financing for compensationwill come fkom a Compensation Fundto be set up
withinMAFCP, financedbythe Project. The CompensationFundwill be established,
financed and operated according to rules containedinthe Project Operational Manual,
which will contain transparent rules andregulations on (i)   the actual mobilization o fthe
needed financing; (ii) intermediate disposition o f such finds untilthey are needed;
                      the
(iii) proceduralstepsrequiredtotriggeractualcompensationpayments;and(iv)the
    the
administrative andpayment arrangements inthe event o f an authorized case o f
compensation. Also needed are precise guidelines for (i)   establishing andverifying
compensation claims, (ii)  recording and reporting culling and compensation claims, (iii)
the actual payment to legitimate beneficiaries, and (iv) monitoring payments. The
Compensation Fundwill be financed by an IDA credit o f US$2 million, conditional on
the modalities for operating the Fundbeing satisfactorily established and approvedby
IDA.

Village andBackyardPoultryCulling
For village andbackyard poultry operations, culling will be conducted inthe presence
and underthe supervision o f an ad hoc local supervision committee (LSC). The LSC will
be established by order o f the municipal/commune administration andwill comprise the

                                               47


municipalhommuneveterinarian, municipalkommune employee, regional administration
veterinarian and the village chief. The LSC will verify the number o fbirds culled and
their owners.

        At the time o fculling, eachindividualpoultryowner will receive a culling
certificate notingthe date and the type andnumber o fhis/her birds culled. The blank
certificates will be provided to the municipal/commune administration by the AI TF
Secretariat. The certificate will be pre-numbered andthe database ofnumbers will be
kept at the Secretariat. Each certificate will be signedby all four members o f the LSC and
the poultry owner. This will be the owner's claim form for compensation. The certificate
will be completed infour copies: one will beretainedbythe owner; the second will be
attached to the village summary certificate; the thirdwill be kept at the
commune/municipal administration, andthe fourth will be sent to the WRMP PMU
handling the procurement and financial management o f the AI project.

        Based onthe individual poultry owner certificates, the LSC will compile a
summary village report o f culling inthe village. Blank pre-numbered summary village
reportswill be providedto the municipaVcommuna1administration, with numbersstored
inthe Secretariat's database. AllLSCmemberswill signthe summaryreport andthe
owners will sign inthe appropriate row specifying the list o f poultry culled andthe
owners name and signature. The village summary list is the document that establishes the
rightfor compensation from the CompensationFund. The summary list will be
completedinfour copies. One copy will be posted ina public space inthe village,
another will bekept by the municipaVcommune administration, a thirdcopy will be sent
bythe municipality/commune withthe attached individualcertificatesto the Secretariat,
and the fourth copy will be sent to the WRMP PMU.

        The commune/municipality will compile a summary report based on the summary
village reports, listing all villages and for each village the total number o f different
poultry culled. The pre-numberedcommune summaryforms are provided bythe
Secretariat. The summary report will be signed bythe mayor o f the
commune/municipality, and are made out inthree copies: one copy will stay at the
municipality/commune, one copy each will be sent, with all attached summary village
reports andthe individual certificates, to the secretariat andthe WRMP PMU.

CommercialPoultryCulling
At commercialpoultry enterprises the cullingwill be done inthe presence o fthe owner,
regional veterinary directorate and one official from the commune/municipality. All three
sign a form listing the culled birds, which is completed in4 copies. One copy o f the form
will be kept bythe owner o fthe commercial enterprise, a secondcopy will bekept at the
municipal/commune administration, a thirdwill be kept at the Secretariat, andthe fourth
copy will be sent to the WRMP PMU.

                                              48


Formsand Database

Four different types of form will be used: culling certificates for small farmers; summary
village reports; commune summary forms; andenterprise poultry cullingrecords. The
forms will be similar to those used inother countries with GPAIprojects and will be
provided inthe Project OperationalManual. All forms will be provided bythe AI TF
Secretariat, andwill be printedpre-numbered. The Secretariat will establish andmaintain
a database containing all numbers o f all forms provided to eachmunicipality/commune,
to facilitate monitoring, record keeping andauditing. The databasewill include all culling
reports from all affected municipalities/villages and commercialpoultry enterprises. After
receiving commune summary certificates the Secretariat will check whether the pre-
numbered forms correspond with its records. This will provide a record for cross-
checking with the records of the WRMP PMU, for auditing purposes. The database could
be expanded for culling other than for HPAI.

CompensationPayments

Duringthe two outbreaks confirmedinMarch2006,affectedpoultry ownerswhose
livestock were culled were compensated under the 2004 Veterinary Law, Art. 62-69.
Farmers were compensated at 100percent o f the marketprice o fpoultry, and
compensation was delivered to them within one week. Along with the Veterinary law,
these two occurrences o f HPAIculling and compensation have set a precedent for
compensation o fpoultryinAlbania. The government favors continuingwith this
precedent, including the level o f compensation offered to farmers. Inaddition the
government i s concerned about the income effects andthe possible perverse incentive
effects o f compensating farmers at lower thanthe market price. Therefore compensation
to small farmers will be calculated as 100percent of the market price o f the laying hens
as reportedby the agriculture statistical directorate duringthe thirdmonthprecedingthe
month inwhich cullingtook place.

         For commercial producers, compensationwill be for reasonable replacement cost,
i.e. for birds less than 3 months old at the cost of one-day chicks, and for birds older than
3 months at the cost of 3-months-old birds, as reportedby agriculture statistical
directorate duringthe thirdmonthpreceding the month inwhich culling took place.

         Compensationto the farmers will be incash through transfers to the respective
communes/municipalities. The farmers will receive the compensation amounts from the
commune/municipality cashier. Appropriate procedures for supervising andverifying
payment are outlined inAppendix 7 andwill be specified infurther detail inthe Project
Operational Manual. For commercial producers, compensation will be provided bybank
transfer.

Flow of Fundsprocedures needto minimize delay but ensure maximumtransparency.
The execution ofpayments will be done through (i)      wire transfers to communes, which
will paythe compensation amounts to the f m e r s incash, and(ii) transfers to the
                                                                      wire
accounts o f commercial poultryproducers.

                                            49



       The Secretariat will verify that forms are complete, andon the basis o fthe
commune summary form will prepare village payment lists (a copy o f the village
summaryreport withthe appropriate compensation amounts added inthe final column)
andapprove transfers from the CompensationFundto the commune accounts. The
commune will then pay the compensation due to individual farmers incash. Upon
receivingpayment the farmers will sign receipt and sign the appropriate row on the
"reimbursed amount" column o fthe village summary report.

       Payment lists for the commercial producers will be prepared upon matching the
form received for commercial producer culling at the Secretariat with the form at the
PMU. Compensation paymentswill be authorized bythe Secretariat and carried out by
wire transfer to the bank accounts o f commercialproducers. All transfers will behandled
bythe PMU.

       Based on the law the payment shouldbe completedwithin 30 days. However, it
would be highly desirable for compensation to be completed ina shorter space o f time,
for example 7 days. After the HPAIoutbreak inCuka Albanian authorities were able to
compensate farmers within 7 days o f culling.

       Furtherdetails on flow o ffunds canbe foundinAppendix 7,and fullprocedures       '


will be detailedinthe Project OperationalManual.

OperationalControls,Reviews,andAudits; see Appendix 7.


i--

                                                  52


                           APPENDIX 6: ProcurementArrangements


A.      GENERAL

As described inOP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA), inaddition to emergency
assistance, the Bank may support operations for prevention andmitigation incountries prone to
specific types o f emergencies. This may comprise: (a) developing a national strategy; (b)
establishing an adequate institutional andregulatory framework; (c) carrying out studies of
vulnerability and risk assessment; (d) reinforcing vulnerable structures; and (e) acquiring hazard
reduction technology.

        Giventhe threat that HPIA maypose to the economic and social fabric o f the country, as
well as to the health o fthe population because ofthe risk o f an influenzapandemic, the Project
will be financed through an IDA credit to be approved following ERAprocedures.

       Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans andIDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection andEmployment o f Consultants byWorld BankBorrowers" datedMay
2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe Financing Agreement. The various items under
different expenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract to be financed
bythe Loadcredit, the different procurementmethods or consultant selection methods, the need
for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, andtime frame are agreed
betweenthe Borrower andthe Bankinthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be
updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Works.Works procuredunder this Project would include creationo fisolation
rooms in 12regional hospitals as well as 3 hospitals inTirana, some refurbishment o fthe
National InfluenzaLab inthe Institute o fPublic Health. It i s envisaged that small works,
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, will be procuredusing a Shopping
procedure, on the basis o f three written price quotations andthe contract awarded to the lowest
priced quotationthat has the necessary experience and financial resources to complete the works
successhlly. Contracts estimated to cost more thanUS$lOO,OOO up to U S $ 2 million equivalent,
will beprocured using the National Competitive Method(NCB). National NCBprocedures may
be used and as a minimumwill comply with the conditions listed below (these apply to
procurement o f goods under NCB as well):


                (i)    "Open Tendering" procedures as defined inPublic Procurement Law o f
                Albaniashall apply to all contracts;

                (ii) Foreignbiddersshallnotbeprecludedfrombiddingandnopreferenceof
                any kindshall be given to national bidders inthe biddingprocess. Government-
                owned enterprises inAlbania shall bepermitted to bidonly ifthey are legally and
                financially autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Borrower;

                                                 53


               (iii)   Procuring entities shall use sample biddingdocuments approved by the
               Association;

               (iv)    Incaseofhigherbidpricescomparedtotheofficialestimate, allbidsshall
               not berejected without the prior concurrence o fthe Association;

               (v)     A single-envelopeprocedure shall beusedfor the submission ofbids;

               (vi)    Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluatedbidder;
               no bidshall berejected at the time o fbidopening on qualification grounds;

               (vii)   Bidderswho contract as ajoint venture shall be heldjointly andseverally
               liable;

               (viii) Contracts shall beawardedto the lowest evaluated, substantially
               responsivebidderwho is determined to be qualified to perform inaccordance
               withpre-definedandpre-disclosed evaluationcriteria;

               (ix)    Post-biddingnegotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
               or any other bidders; and

               (x)     Contracts o f long duration (more than 18months) shall contain
               appropriate price adjustmentprovisions.

Procurement of Goods. Goods and equipment contracts estimatedto cost US$500,000 or more
will beprocured through International CompetitiveBidding(ICB). Goods estimatedto cost less
thanUS$ 500,000 equivalent andmore thanUS$ 100,000 equivalent wouldbeprocuredthrough
National CompetitiveBidding(NCB). Readily available off-the-shelf goods estimated to cost
less thanUS$lOO,OOO eachwill be procured through Shopping procedures on the basis o f three
writtenquotations obtained from qualified suppliers.Specialized goods andmedical equipment
(such as: incinerators) could beprocuredthrough LimitedInternational Biddinginaccordance
with the paragraph3.2 ofthe Procurement Guidelines.

Procurement from UNAgencies. Inaccordancewith paragraph 3.9 o fthe Procurement
Guidelines,procurement from UNAgencies couldbeusedfor the purchase o f Tamiflu.

Selection of Consultants. Consultancy services will be requiredfor the following major tasks:
international consultants to TF Secretariat, Emergency Response/ Epidemiologist Experts,
Laboratory Bio-SafetyExperts, improvement o fhealthsector plan, detailedplan for social
distancing measure, planninghupporttraining program andconsultancies for technical design
andsupervision ofthe civilworks for the rehabilitationofhospitals andhealthcenters for
creating the isolationrooms. Contracts for firms estimated at less than US$200,000 would be
procured following the CQ method. Individualconsultants would be selectedinaccordancewith
Part V o fthe Consultants Guidelines.Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less
thanUS $ 100,000 equivalent percontract maybe composed entirelyofnationalconsultants in
accordancewith the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.For the public

                                                   54


awareness campaign the FixedBudget selection method (FBS)will beused inaccordancewith
the provisionso fparagraph 3.5 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

SpecialArrangements for Consulting Services

Training of veterinarians by Faculty of Veterinary. Inthe scopeo fthe project, the
veterinarians will be trained regarding epizotology diseases. The traininghas to beprovidedin
local language and the Faculty o f Veterinary i s the only local agency with unique qualifications
andprivate sector is not developed for such services. Eventhough the Facultyis not a legally,
managerially and financially autonomous agency, there is no alternative source that canprovide
this trainingnationwide. Therefore, the concernedtraining activities at a total cost not to exceed
$ 50,000 for the whole project periodwill be awarded to this Facultyon a single sourcebasis.

Training of veterinarians by IVR. Inthe scope o fthe project, the veterinarians o f the regional
laboratories, epidemiologists o fthe regions will be trained regardingantroposonosis (diseases
transmittable fi-om animals to humans). The traininghas to beprovided inlocal language and the
Institute o fVeterinarians is the only local agencywith uniquequalifications andno other private
sector alternative i s available for such services that have facilities to carry out this training at the
regional level. Eventhough the Institute ofVeterinarians i s not a legally, managerially and
financially autonomous agency, there i s no alternative source that can providethis training.
Therefore, the concernedtraining activities at a total cost not to exceed$50,000 for the whole
project periodwill be awarded to this Institute on a single source basis.

Training: A considerable portion o fthe credit i s allocated to training for components such as:
training for epidemiology, emergency outbreak control, laboratory bio safety practices, etc.
Where feasible, training will be integrated into the consultancy contracts.

B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement

Becauseo fthe urgency o f launching the Project, the Ministryo fAgriculture, Foodand
Consumer Protectionandthe Bankhave agreedto use an existingimplementingunit, the PMU
of Water ResourceManagement Project, which will assume responsibility for procurement.
P M Uhastwo procurement staff (one procurement specialist and a procurement assistant). PMU
will facilitate the work ofthe Project Coordinators andwill preparebiddingdocuments, drafts
contracts, executespayments uponinstructiono f the implementation agencies, submits financial
reports andconsolidatesproject progress reports. Giventhat this project i s inthe peak of its
procurement load, a localprocurement consultant will behiredto assist themwith the
procurement packagesunderthis emergency project. The local consultant should be
knowledgeable inBankprocurement.

The corrective measureswhich have been agreedare as follows:

    P Hiringofa localprocurement expertfor aninitialperiodof 12months to assistthe PMU
        with procurement under the project. This person should behiredimmediately inorder to
         start procurement packages.

                                                  55


    9 Theprocurement file containingupto dateBankprocurement documents(guidelines,
       manuals, templates for procurement notices, standardbiddingdocuments for procurement
        o fworks and goods, standardrequest for proposal documents for consulting services,
        evaluation report formats, regional and simplifiedprocurement documents, etc.) shallbe
        givento the PMUofWater ResourceManagement for use.
    9 ThePMUisrecommendedto visittheBank's web-site frequentlyto ensureusingthe
    >  most updated procurement documents.
        PAS for the project will organize regularmeetings with the PMUprocurement staff and
        will work closelywith them.

The overallproject risk for procurement is "High".

C. ProcurementPlan

An annual Procurement Plan(PP) ispreparedbythe Ministryo f Agriculture, Food and
Consumer's Protection, at appraisal, andwill be finalized bynegotiations. The updated PP for
each subsequentyear will be submitted to the Bank for approval before the endo fthe previous
year and will use a pre-defined standardformat which will, as a minimum, list: (i) and       goods
services to beprocuredduringthe following calendar year, (ii) value; (iii) methodo f
                                                                 their           the
procurement; and (iv) the timetable for carrying out the procurement. At the time of approving
the annual work program, IDA will agree on the consistency with the application o fthe Bank
procurement guidelines to the specific procurement lots expected duringthe year and their
methods ofprocurement. Ifneeded, the plancould be revised andre-submitted.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Inaddition to theprior review supervisionto becarriedout from Bankoffices, itis
recommendedto conduct at least two supervision missions annually to visit the field to carry out
post review o fone infive procurement actions.

E. Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

                                                 1            1
1. Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

(a) List of contract packagesto beprocured following ICB and direct contracting:

      1    1 2
                                  Type of
      Ref   Contract              y c u r e m e   Numberof     P-Q     Domestic       :;mi;
                                                                      ~              ~                  ~


      No.   (Description)                         Contracts            Preference           by Bank
                                                                       (yeslno)             (Prior I
     -
      1.    Laboratory
            equipmentRT-PCR
            for humanand          G               1
            animal health
            components

                                                    56


                                                                                     Prior
      2.     Purchase o ftamiflu                                                     review
                                                                                     Prior
      3.     Incinerators                                                            review
      4.
             Ambulances                                                              Prior
                                      G             1           I C B    Yes         review


(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$500,000 equivalent per contract o f goods and all
direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

2. ConsultingServices

(a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

             I 1              1 2                                1 4          15

              Ref. No.         Description of Assignment          Selection    Review
                                                                  Method       byBank
                                                                               (Prior I
                                                                               Post)
               1.              Design and implementation o f
                               the public awareness campaign      FBS          Prior
              2.               International TA to assist
                               Secretariat                        I C          Prior

               3.              Training o f veterinarians by
                               Faculty o f Veterinary              ss          Prior

              4.               Training o f veterinarians by
                               TVR                                 ss          Prior



(b) All single source selectiono f consultants (firms) should be subject to Bankpriorreview.
Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less thanU S $ 100,000 equivalent per contract maybe composed entirely of
national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.

AdditionalArrangements. FollowingERAprocedures, the Projectis likely to include
financing for items included on a positive list o f imports identified as necessary under a well-
defined preparedness andresponse program to be prepared as part o fproject implementation. In
case o f a declared national emergency on Avian Influenza, which will trigger disbursement
conditions for critical imports, support will be providedunder the Project for the procurement of
a positive list o f critical imports. These may be procured under Modified International
Competitive Bidding(MICB), according to paragraphs 2.66 and2.67 o fthe Procurement
Guidelines. Also, commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized

                                             57


international commodity markets or other channelsofcompetitive procurement acceptableto the,
Bank,inaccordancewiththe provision.

Thepositive list ofcriticalinputsto bepreparedbyAlbania or to bepurchasedbythe Borrower
from the privatesector, basedonhistoricalimportsduringnational emergencies, will include:
       0   Pharmaceuticals andvaccines
       0   Medical andveterinary supplies andequipment
       0   Protective clothing and gear

                                                  58


          APPENDIX 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements


Country Issues. The latest Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA -April 2002)
confirmthat improvement is required inmanagement o fpublic expenditures, including cash
management inTreasury andbetter internal control throughout the public sector. Internal audit is
currently being fully developed to improve the government's internal control environment. A
Public Internal Financial Control framework is being implemented and a new computerized
treasury system is under implementation. The supreme audit institution is also being
strengthened. A CountryFiduciary Assessment Update (CFAU) is ongoing as well as a Public
Expenditure and Institutional Review to be completedbefore the end o fJune 2006.

Zmplementingentities. Because ofthe urgency o f launching the Project, Bank andthe Ministry
of Agriculture, Foodand Consumer Protection (MAFCP) have agreed to use an existing unit, the
PMUo fWater ResourceManagementProject, which will assume responsibility for financial
management functions for components implementedby bothMAFCP and Ministry o fHealth.
The unitwill be responsible for ensuring that the Project establishes andmaintains: (i)   adequate
accounting systems and procedures; (ii)    flow-of-funds mechanisms facilitating timely
disbursement o f funds and timely payments for goods, works and services; (iii) reporting
                                                                                   regular
on the use o f funds; and (iv) appropriate arrangements for regular financial audits. These
responsibilities are described indetail ina Project OperationalManual and summarized inthe
Financing Agreement.

The project has experience with financial management under Bank-financed projects andhas
established sound internal control mechanisms on the application anduse o f funds. However,
additional internal control procedures for the operation o f the Compensation Fundare developed
to respond to the specific risks associated with the flow-of-funds mechanism envisaged under the
project. These procedures are outlined inthe Project Operational Manual.

Staffing. The existing FMS staffing inthe PMUis considered adequate to implement this new
project at the initial phase, but additional staffwill be needed to strengthen the existing capacity
andto allow for periodic visits to the village level to review the implementation o f the
Compensation Fund. The additional staffwill report to the PMUfinancial manager andwill be
responsible for disbursement functions as well as project accounting -- maintaining books o f
accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions andpreparing accounting reports and financial
statements, as well as monitoring financial flows to project beneficiaries. The financial manager
will haveprimaryresponsibility for the quarterly interimun-audited financial reports (previously
known as FMRs) andwill prepare the annual financial statements for audit.

FinancialReporting. For project monitoring purposes, quarterly interimun-audited financial
reports (IAFRs) will be required. The PMUwill be responsible for designing appropriate IAFRs
to include: (a) Project Sources andUses o fFunds, (b) Uses o fFunds byProject Activity, (c)
Designated Account/Local Bank Account Statements, and (d) Procurement progress monitoring
report. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA within one month o f the end o f each
quarter. The first quarterly IAFRs will be submitted after the end ofthe first full quarter
following the initial disbursement. Formats o f the annual financial statements and the IAFRs
willbe incorporated inthe Financial Management section ofthe Project Operational Manual.

                                                 59


The accounting software currently usedby the P M Uwill be modifiedinorder to allow the PMU
to prepare IAFRs which would incorporate all components, sub-componentsandexpenditure
categories, as maybe appropriate.

DisbursementArrangements. The Borrowerwill establish a DesignatedAccount at the Bank o f
Albania (as i s customary for all Bank projects). Upon deposit of credit proceeds inthis
Designated Account at the Bank ofAlbania, the PMUmay, with IDAprior approval, transfer
sufficient funds from this Designated Account to a secondgeneration account opened ina
commercial bank to bemaintained bythe P M Uon terms andconditions acceptable to IDA.
Bank funds will be disbursedunder the Bank's transactional proceduresincluding Summary
Reports (SR) and direct payments. Supporting documentation for SR, includingcompletion
reportsandcertificates, will beretainedby the Borrower andmade available to the Bankduring
project supervision. Disbursements for expenditures above the SR thresholds will be made
against presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures. There i s no planto
moveto periodic disbursements.

Accountingpolicies andprocedures. With the exception o f the CompensationFund, for which
the PMUdoes not have previous experience, PMUhas maintained an effective internal control
system to ensurethat project expenditures are properly authorized, supporting documents are
maintained; accounts are reconciledperiodically; project assets, includingcash, are safeguarded,
and cashcompensation grants are properly accounted for. The accounting books andrecords are
maintained on a cash basis andproject financial statements are presentedinUnitedStates dollars
and the local currency Lek. Detailedassethventoriesregister will bemaintained as part o fthe
project internalcontrol procedures.

I nformation Systems. The accounting system for the existingproject (Water Resource
Management Project) has been fully computerized, adoptinglocally developed software that i s
able to produce the reports requiredby the Bank(IFARs). The Avian InfluenzaControl and
HumanPandemic PreparednessandResponseProject will have a separate set o f accounts inthe
PMUaccounting records. The accounting system will be tailored to the project documents
utilizingthe work made for the Water Resource Management Project.

RetroactiveFinancing. To help facilitate early start up o fthis emergencyproject, retroactive
financing o fup to US $300,000 equivalent (SDR 200,000) will be available to cover eligible
expenses incurredas o f May 1,2006, against Categories 1and2 o f the disbursement table in
Section V-A.2 o f Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.

Quick-DisbursableFunds. There will be a separate disbursement Category o fUS$300,000
equivalent (SDR 200,000) for quick-disbursing funds for cfitical imports inthe case o f a national
avian influenza emergency, identifiedas apositive list o f imports inthe FinancingAgreement
(pharmaceuticals andvaccines; medical andveterinary supplies and equipment; andprotective
clothing and gear). The conditions for use of such funds are included as a disbursement
condition. No withdrawals shall be made for this category unless: (i) a nationalemergency on
Avian Influenzahasbeen declared bythe Recipient and a well-defined emergency recovery
program, satisfactory to the Association, hasbeen adoptedby the Recipient; (ii)    for goods
suppliedunder a contract which any national or internationalfinancing institutionor agency

                                                  60


other than the Association shall have financed or agreedto finance or which the Association has
financed or agreed to finance under another Grant or Credit; and (iii)   inexcessofanaggregate
amount equivalent to 50% of the amount ofthe Financing for any category of eligible imports
specifiedinSection V.C of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreementwithout prior approval by the
Association. Upon declaration o f a national emergency on Avian Influenza, the government will
submitto IDA aninitialrecoveryplandocumenting the disaster declaration, the relatedbudget
appropriate andthe proposed use o f funds. The TF Secretariatwill keep IDAinformedof
updatesinthe recovery plan as the emergencyresponseoperations unfold.


CompensationFund. The Government has established anational CompensationFundfrom
which the owners o f animals culledwill becompensated.MoAFCP will manage the
Compensation Fund, through an Avian InfluenzaTask Force Secretariat and the Director o fthe
Veterinary Directorate inthe MoAFCP. The necessary legal, institutional, operational, and
financial details will be developed, agreed, andincludedinthe Project Operational Manual.

P M Uwill execute gross payments from Compensation Fundto agreedagents of eacho f the
affected towns/villages (most likely, localmayoralties will act as disbursingagents). The agents
will makepayments to individual farms andhouseholds.

Internal ControlArrangementsfor the CompensationFund. Appendix 3b sets forth the
procedures for recording poultryculled under government orders and for establishing and
recordingpoultry owner's claims for compensationpayments. A numbero fminimuminternal
controlprocedures and risk mitigation measureswill be implementedwith respectto recording
andverifyingpoultrycullingand claims for compensation payment before any flow offunds is
initiated.
     0  The Project Operational Manual details the mechanisms, as described inAppendix 3b, for
        identifyingthose eligible for compensationpayments, ensuringthat there willbe no
        multipleclaims. A CompensationFunddatabasewill bemaintained bythe Project to
        facilitate record keeping, claim verification, payment facilitation, monitoring and
        auditing.
     0  Inthe event ofgovernment-orderedcullingofpoultry, the cullingandthepreparation and
        processing of culling records and compensation claims will be done inaccordance with
        the proceduresdetailed inAppendix 3b and summarized inparas. below.
     0  All forms to beusedto recordpoultrycullings and compensationclaims will providedby
        the Project. Theywill be pre-numberedandrecorded inthe database of the
        CompensationFund. All unusedforms, as well as any invalid or incorrectly completed
        forms, must bereturnedto the CompensationFundwhenthe culling records are
        submitted.
     0  Compensationpayment to poultry ownerswill be incash or bybanktransfer or postal
        transmission. There will be no vouchers or animal replacements. Payment will be made
        within four weeks from the date of culling.

The owners of villageand backyardpoultry will, at the time of culling, receive a Culling
Certificate notingthe date andthe type and number o fbirdsculled. Eachcertificate will be
signed by all four memberso f the Local Supervision Committee (LSC) and countersigned by the

                                                  61


poultryowner. The certificate will be completed infour copies: one for the poultry owner, one
each will be attached to the village summary certificate, thirdwill be kept at the
commune/municipal administration andthe fourth will be send to the PMUhandlingthe
procurement and finance management o fthe project Certificates not signed by all members o f
the LSC and the poultry owner are invalid.

Basedon the individualpoultry owner certificates, the LSC will compile a Village Summary
Poultry Culling Record. All four LSC members will sign andthe poultry owners will
countersign this list o fbirds culled andtheir owners. Forms not signedby all four members o f
the LSC are invalid, and all claims included on an invalidVillage Summary Poultry Culling
Record are rendered invalid as well. The village summary cullingrecord is the official record
that establishes the poultry owners' right to compensation fiom the Compensation Fund. The
summarylist will be completed in4 copies. One copy will bepostedinthe public space, one will
bekept inmunicipal/commune administration, a thirdcopy with the attached individual
certificates will be sent to the commune to be sent to the secretariat, andthe fourth copy will be
sent to the PMUhandling the procurement and finance management o f the project.

The commune/municipality will compile a summary report based on the summary village
reports. The pre-numbered commune summary forms are providedby the secretariat. The
summary report will be signed bythe mayor. One copy will be sent to the PMUhandlingthe
procurement and finance management o f the project. A copy with all attached summaryvillage
reports and the individual certificates will be sent to the secretariat.

Commercial Poultry. At the commercial enterprises the cullingwill be done inthe presence o f
the owner, a representative from the regional veterinary directorate, and one official from the
commune/municipality. All three sign the list o f the cullingbirds. The blank forms are provided
bythe secretariat. A copy ofthe form iskept bythe owner o fthe commercial enterprise, other
copy is kept at the municipal/commune administration and one copy is kept at the secretariat.

Flow-of-Funds Arrangements for the Compensation Fund. Flow-of-funds arrangements for
making compensationpayments are designed to minimize the number o f stages through which
funds will need to pass before reaching the intendedbeneficiaries, while ensuring maximum
transparency. Once authorized by the PMU, compensationpayments will be effectedby the
CompensationFundinone o f two ways: (i)       inpersonandincashinthe village, or (ii)    through
the bankingsystem.

For village and backyardpoultry owners, payment will be made inperson andincash at the
village level, ina public place. The funds for such payments will be transferredbythe
CompensationFundthrough the bankingsystem to the commune/municipality. The fanners will
receive the compensationamounts from the commune/municipality cashier. Payment to the
poultry owners will be made bythe cashier and supervised by the two community representatives
on the LSC, based on the village summary culling record kept by the commune/municipality and
cross-checked against that kept inthe village. To receive payment, each poultry owner will be
required to present hidher culling certificate; the date and amount o fpayment will be recorded
on the certificate and countersignedbythe poultry owner.

                                                  62


Allpayments made to individual poultry owners are recordedonbothcopies o fthe village
summary poultry culling recordkept by the commune/municipality, and eachpoultry owner
must sign for the payment receivedon both copies to confirmreceipt o fpayment. These two
copies o f the village summary poultry culling record thus become the "village culling-and-
payment record". They must be signed bythe commune/municipality and the two community
representatives o n the LSC. The commune/municipality then completes the Summary Report by
entering inthe final column for each village the amounts paid, byvillage and bytype ofpoultry.
The commune/municipality keeps one copy o fthe completed Summary Report and submits the
other to the Compensation Fund, with a copy o f each village's culling-and-payment record
attached.

For commercialpoultry that havebank accounts, the compensation payments will be made
through the bankingsystem, typically through the treasury accounts. The Compensation Fund
will transfer the hnds to the treasury accounts, which will instruct its branches inthe appropriate
locations to credit the account(s) o fthe eligible recipients. The CompensationFundwill inform
the PMUo f the dates and mounts o fpayments made, with appropriate documentary evidence.

Reviewsand Auditsfor the CompensationFund. The PMUwill carry out, or will arrange to
have carried out, additional checks to ensure that the eligible poultry owners, and only they, are
paid infull. This will include, but not be limitedto, periodic operational reviews, under TORs
acceptable to IDA, to confirm the validity and legitimacy o f the compensation payments made.
The reviewers will be requiredto verify compensationclaims andpayments made inrandomly
selected samples o f villages andAlbanian territories; this verification will include: checking
against the database maintainedbythe CompensationFund, collecting and verifying information
available andobtained at the village level, checking with individual poultry owners, checking
forms andreports, etc. Any significant weaknesses identifiedwill bepromptly rectified inclose
consultation with IDA. Inaddition, the external independent auditors will be asked to provide an
opinion on the reasonableness o f the accounting, reporting and internal controls inrespect o f the
operations o fthe CompensationFund, and the audit TORs (acceptable to IDA)will include these
specific requirements. All ineligible claims will be refunded to the CompensationFundandto
IDA.

FinancialAudits. Annual audits o fthe project financial statements will cover all aspects o f the
project, including specific requirements for the Compensation Fund. The audits will be
performedby independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the Bank's guidelines on auditing. They will include both the
audit o f financial transactions, an assessment o f the internal control, funds flow mechanisms, and
the reasonableness o fthe accounting, reporting andinternal controls inrespect o f the
Compensation Fund. The annual audit reports will consist o f a single opinion on the financial
statements o fthe project, incorporating the project accounts, including DesignatedAccount
Reconciliation, and Summary Reports (SR); as well as a Management Letter. The auditors' TOR
will beprepared bythe PMUandcleared bythe Bankbefore the engagement o fthe auditor.

The cost o f the operational reviews will be eligible for financing from the Loan. PMUwill
provide the auditor with full access to project-related documents andrecords, including the
compensation claims database, andwith the information required for the purpose o f the audit.

                                                 63



The audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end o f the
fiscal year to which they relate.

SupervisionPlan. Duringproject implementation, the Bankwill supervise the project's
financial management arrangements intwo ways: (i) o f the project's quarterly interim un-
                                                       review
audited financial reports and as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and
auditor's management letter; and (ii) the Bank's supervisionmissions, review o f the
                                      during
project's financial management anddisbursement arrangements (including a review o f a sample
o f Summary Reports and movements on the DesignatedAccount) andpayments from
Compensation Fundto ensure compliance with the Bank's minimumrequirements and
procedures set out inthe Project Operational Manual.


Allocationof the Credit Proceeds (US$)

        Category             Amount of the           PercentageofExpenditures
                          FinancingAllocated               to beFinanced
                          (in USD equivalent)

   (1) Goods, works,
   Operating Costs
   and.Compensation
   Fund

   (2) Consultants'     $282,900                                 100%
   services and                                    I                                 I
   Training

   (3) Quick            $300,000                                 100%
   DisbursingFunds
   for Eligible
   Imported Goods

   TOTAL                $5,000,000
   AMOUNT

                                                 64


               APPENDIX 8: Environmentaland SocialAnalysis andMitigation

(i)Hasanenvironmentalanalysisbeendone?Yes[3                No [XI.

        Activities underthe Project are not expectedto generate significant adverse
environmental effects as they are focusedlargely onpublic sector capacity buildingand
improvedreadiness for dealing with outbreaks o f avian influenzaindomestic poultry andhuman
health. These prevention-focused activities are expectedto have apositive environmental impact
as the Project's investments infacilities, equipment, andtraining for laboratories will improve the
effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handlingand testingproceduresby
meetinginternational standardsestablishedbythe WHO andOIE.

        There are three environment-relatedissues that the projectwill address: the procedures
put inplace for culling and disposal o fpoultry; the handlingo f medical waste generatedby
laboratories and healthcare facilities; and minor civilworks for rehabilitationo f laboratories and
hospitals.

Culling and disposal of poultry:
The environmental considerations for carcass disposal typically have the potentialfor one or
more ofthe following environmental impacts: health and safety hazards for the workers andthe
public; soil andwater pollution from leakages o fthe carcasswaste; excavation o fmaterials and
disposal of surplus soillearth andother materials, risks to environmentally sensitive areas, flora
andfauna; vicinity ofthe disposal site to the busyareas like nationalroad, healthcenters,
markets, schools or natural reserves or historic sites; site location (avoiding flooded, eroded or
slidingareas).

Handling of medical waste:
Impacts associatedwith the handlingofmedical waste canbe minor but still it is particularly
important that wastes generatedare addressedduringproject implementation andalso monitored
duringoperation.

Minor civil works:
Minor civil works for rehabilitationof laboratories and hospitals will be includedamong
investments inlaboratories andhospitals. No significant impacts are expected.

Mitigation
        These potential hazardswill be avoided by employing international best practice
guidelines inthe culling anddisposal o fcarcasses andhandlingo fmedicalwaste. Mitigation
measureswill include: i)Careful siting, alignment andtiming o fworks; ii)select disposal areas
andmethodscarefullyiii)protect sensitive areas withinor close to site andincorporate safety
and environmentalrequirements incontract documents; iv) immediatelyhalt work invicinity of
discoveries, pendinginstructions fi-om relevant authorities; v) provide appropriate drainage and
soil stabilization.

Since the Project supports investments incarcass disposal for culledpoultry andinvestments in
laboratories andhospitals it receives a B category for environmental screening. The Project

                                                            65


Operational Manual (a conditiono f effectiveness) will include an environmental assessment
(EA) andenvironmental managementplan(EMP) to address these issues. A waiver for the
requirement to complete the EA andEMP duringproject preparationperpara. 12o f OP 4.01 has
been sought and obtained.

Minor civil works will follow procedures similar to other projects. There i s extensive experience
inAlbania inundertaking civilworksprojects andmanagingthe environmental implications.
The Project Operational Manualwill lay out guidelines for the environmental impact assessment
to be followed prior to undertaking the works.


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OPBP/GP 4.01)                                                 [XI                     [I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                            [ I                   [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                                        [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                    E11l                   [XI
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                    E l                   [XI
  Forests(OPBP 4.36)                                                                      [ I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [ I                    [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                                 [I                     [XI
  Projectson International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                                       [I                     [XI

(ii) theprojectaffectthenaturalhabitatsofcertainrarefaunaandfloraspecies?
     Does
     Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(iii)Doestheprojectinvolveanincreaseintheuseofpesticides?Yes[]orNo[XI.

(iv) Does the project encroachuponforests? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

(v) Does the project affect other environmentally sensitive areas (beaches, coastal
     wetlands, other)? Yes [ ] or No [XI.

SOCIAL ANALYSIS

(i)      Themainbeneficiaries ofthe project. Who are they? How many?Poor, non-
         poor?

The vast majorityof poultryare keptby smallholders intheir backyards andmanagedbywomen
with the help ofchildren. Such families are disproportionately likelyto be inthe lower income
quintiles: according to the 2006 Country Assistance Strategy the ruralpoverty rate i s 30 percent,
at least 10percentagepoints higherthanurbanpoverty, andruralresidents comprise over two
thirds ofthe two poorest consumption quintiles. The consequencesofHPAIare likelyto affect
small-scale producers inmultipleways, even ifthey do not face destruction o f their animals.
Small scaleproducers inAlbania produce so-called field chicken (Pula Fushe) that are raised ina

* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas

                                                  66


ii-ee-ranging environment and have a higher cost o fproductionthancommercially produced
chickens. Changing husbandry practices among the rural poor, such as encouraging them to
enclose their poultry to prevent infection, will not be easybecause traditional practices are
strongly engrained and such changes will impose additional costs.

(ii)    Have the beneficiariesbeen consulted on the project? Please describe.

The missionmet with a broad range o f stakeholders and discussed different aspects o f the project
with them. The most controversial aspect o fthe project -culling o fbackyardpoultry-was
discussed with representatives o f villages. There were no specific issues that were raisedthat
have not beentakinginto account inthe project design. Preliminary evidence on the success o f
the government cullingprogram inCuka suggests that there are no major issues with the existing
procedures and that farmers are being compensated on a timely basis.

(iii)   Has the civil society concerned with the project beenconsulted? Please describe.

Consultationwith civil society has been undertakenprior to appraisal, and will be a continuous
process. There is also a demonstrated need to intensify consultations incases of outbreaks. The
experience o f Cuka village showed that although farmers were aware o f HPAIthey were not
fully aware o fthe associatedrisks andwere initiallyhesitant to havetheir poultry culled. After
another information campaign, they were very cooperativewith the regional task force andwith
the culling team, including the lowest income households. Rapidcompensation at market rates
was an important factor here, along with explanations fi-om the veterinary service that farmers
could breed chickens again soon after the quarantine period.

(iv)    Will the beneficiaries andNGObe consulted or involved inthe implementation o f
         the project? Please explain.

Beneficiaries on all levels will play a key role inproject implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation. NGOs such as Hunters Association, Fishery Management Organizations andNatural
Resources Association have been contacted. They have expressed their willingness to participate
inthe implementationo fcertainactivities o fthe project. Thebeneficiaries andNGOsroles and
responsibilities will be outlined indetail inthe Project Operational Manual.

(v)     Does the project require that people have to be resettledto other areas or is their
        livelihood affectednegatively by the project? Yes [ ] or N o [XI. Ifyes, please
        explain.

(vi)    Does the project affect the livelihoods o f indigenous peoples? Yes [ ] or N o [XI.
        Ifyes, pleaseexplain.

OTHER SAFEGUARDS


(i)     Does the project have a negative impact on cultural property? Yes [ ] or N o [XI.
        Ifyes, pleaseexplain.

                                               67


(ii) Does the project affect the safety o f dams? Yes [ ] or No [XI. Ifyes, please explain.

(iii) Does the project affect international waterways? Yes [ ] or No [XI.
      Ifyes, pleaseexplain.

(iv)  Is the project carried out inDisputed Areas? No

28.   MONITORING EVALUATIONPLAN
                     AND

See Appendix 2.

                                           68


    APPENDIX 9: NationalVeterinary Structure, April2006

                        -1
I                                    I                                          i

                           Ministryof Agricultureand
                                                                       Ministry of Local
                                                                       Governmei t


                           and Consumers Protection


 I                    I



  I
  I
  I
  I   , Directorate of Animal Health                 Directorateof Food Safety
            and Plant Protection                     and Consumers Protection
                 Services




                                                   veterinary       ldentificati
                Protection         Researd                          on Sector
  ,                                                laboratory
  I




     12Regional


  I
  I

      I
  I  I

                             DistrictVeterinary
  I                          specialist
  I
  I
  I
  I




                           veterinaryoffice
  I

  I




                               village level




                                 243 state
                           450 pnvate contracted


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33359

                                 19E                                                      20E                                                                    21E



                                                                                                                                            S E R B I A A N D
                                                                                                                                        M O N T E N E G R O
                                                                      Maja Jezerc
                                                                          (2693 m)       Valbona
                                                                 MALSI E                n  Al p s
       ALBANIA                                                     North     AlbaniaT     R O P O J 
                                                To               MADHE
                                         Podgorica                                                Bajram
                                                             Han i Hoti                           Curri

                                                             Koplik                               Drin
                                                                                           Fierz
                                                                                           Fierz
                                                                                                                H A S
                                                Lake               S H K O D  R                                                           To
                                              Scutari                                                                  Krum
                                                                                                                       Krum               Prizren

                                                                 Shkodr
                                                                 Shkodr                 P U K 
                                                                 (Scutari)          Koman
                                                                                        Puk
                                                                                        Puk     Fush
                                                                                                 Arrz
                                                                                                 Arrz      Kalimash        Kuks
                                                                                                                            Kuks
42N
                                                                                                              K U K  S                                                                       42N


                                                  Bun

                                                                        L E Z H 
                                                                                    M I R D I T         Zall-Rec
                                                             Shngjin
                                                             Shngjin
                                                         Drinit Bay             Rubik         Kurbneshi
                                                                  Lezh
                                                                  Lezh               Rrshen
                                                                                      Rrshen                   DriniZi

                                                                                             Lake            Peshkopi
                                                                              Shkopet        Ulzs
                                                       Fush
                                                       Fush Kuge       La
                                                                        La           Ulz
                                                                                      Ulz
                                                         Rodonit Bay                         Burrel
                                                                      LA
                                                                      LA                                   D I B R A
                                                                             Mamurasi      M AT
                                                                                 Kruj
                                                                                 Kruj
                                                         Lalzit
               A d r i a t i c                             Bay             K R U J                                                                           FYR
                                                                             Fush
                                                                             Fush                Bulquiz
                                                                                                  Bulquiz
                                                          DURRS
                                                          DURRS             Kruj
                                                                             Kruj                                                               MACEDONIA
                     S e a                                                                               BULQIZ
                                                                                                         BULQIZ
                                                                                     TIRAN
                                                                                     TIRAN
                                                 Durrs
                                                 Durrs                  Vor
                                                                           or
                                                                    Shijak           (TIRANA)

                                                        Durrsit              T I R A N 
                                                          Bay                             Ib
                                                                                          Ib
                                                                                                                Librazhd                  To
                                                          Kavaj
                                                          Kavaj                             Krrab
                                                                                             Krrab                                     Struga
                                                                                                              LIBRAZHD
                                                         KAVAJAJ
                                                                              PEQIN                Elbasan
                                                                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                             Vidhs
                                                                                              idhs                     Perrenjas
41N                                                                           Peqin          E L B A S A N                                      Ohrid
                                                                                                                                                                                              41N
                                                Karavastas        LUSHNJ
                                                                   LUSHNJ                 Crrik
                                                                                           Crrik
                                                      Bay
                                                                   Lushnj
                                                                   Lushnj                                                 POGRADEC
                                                                                      Kajan                                                                              Lake
                                                                                                          Gramsh                 Pogradec                               Prespa

                                                                                  KUOV
                                                                                  KUOV             G R A M S H
                                                           F I E R                      Kuov
                                                                                        Kuov
                                                                                                                                                                                   Little
                                                              Fier
                                                                          Marinz
                                                                          Marinz         Berat                                                                                    Lake Prespa

                                                                       Patos                                                             Maliq
                                                                                       B E R AT                                                              DEVOLL

                                                      Kafaraj                 Ballsh                                           K O R        Kor
                                                                                                                                              Kor
                                                                    Vjos                                                                                        Bilisht
                                                                             MALLA-
 0    10   20    30   40 Kilometers                                                                   SKRAPAR
                                                                             KASTER
                                                                                                             orovod
                                                                                                             orovod
                                                                      Selenice
 0       10       20        30 Miles                   Vlors    Vlor
                                                                 Vlor             TEPELEN
                                                                                   TEPELEN
                                                       Bay
                                                                                   Krahs
                                                                                   Krahs                                                     Ersek
                                                                                                                                              Ersek
                              19E                                   Mavrov
                                                                     Mavrov                             P  R M E T
                                                                 V L O R                                                         KOLONJ
                                                                                                                                  KOLONJ
                                                                                     Tepelen
                                                                                      epelen  Kelcyr
                                                                                               Kelcyr                   Prmet
       ALBANIA                                                                                                           Pr
                                                                                                                            Vjos


                                                                                              GJIROKASTR
                                                                                              GJIROKASTR                          P i n d u s               GREECE

           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                        Gjirokastr
                                                                                                        Gjirokastr                              M
           DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                            40N                                         DELVIN
                                                                                             VIN                                                                                             40N
           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                Delvin
                                                                                           Delvin

           RIVERS                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                 Ionina
                                                                                     Sarand
                                                                                     Sarand
           MAIN ROADS                                                                                     Kakavija                                 oun t a i n s
           RAILROADS                                              GREECE                         SARAND
                                                                                                 SARAND
                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
           DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                           20E                                                                        21E

                                                                                                                                                                                   SEPTEMBER 2004

