Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2281 
Project Name 
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and 
Response Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);Health 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P100273 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Albania 
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 23, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 31, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
NA 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Albania is an “Immanent Risk Case” for Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), 
with the confirmation in March 2006 of two outbreaks of HPAI cases discovered among 
domestically reared poultry.
1
The threat of new infection among poultry is great, and sporadic 
outbreaks of HPAI have great potential to spread if left unchecked. More than half of 323 wild 
bird species recorded in the country are considered migratory, frequenting wetlands bordering on 
farming communities. Albania’s poultry population is given as 6.275 million, of which over 85 
percent are reared in a free-ranging environment on small household farms across the country.
2
The potential consequences of an unchecked outbreak, including transmission of the virus to 
humans and the appearance of a virus transmissible between humans, are well-documented.
3
The government of Albania, with the support of the international donor community in 
Albania, has focused on mounting a rapid response, improving surveillance, detection and 
containment measures. These efforts include adjusting legislation for control and prevention of 
communicable diseases, including influenza pandemics, in line with international legislation; 
establishing a National Influenza Pandemic Committee, or “Task Force,” as an inter-ministerial 
and inter-sectoral decision-making body;
4
and establishing a working group between the 
1
See GPAI PAD p. 54. 
2
The remaining 15 percent is reared on 32 commercial farms ranging in size from 500 to 220,000 heads. 
3
See GPAI PAD p.1-3. 
4
This Task Force was established by order of the Prime Minister on October 28, 2005
.
M
embership of the Task 
Force includes the Ministries of Agriculture (chair), Health, Interior, Education, Environment, and Finance. Its main 
responsibilities include taking decisions at the national level for prevention and control of AI; coordination of the 
national contingency plan; and distribution of tasks to each ministry; ensuring implementation at the field level; 
preparing bulletins; informing the PM’s office; and communicating with national and international organizations.  
Page  2
Ministries of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection (MAFCP). 
The Ministry of Health has prepared and monitors implementation of a national contingency 
plan, and an Influenza Committee at the Ministry of Health is in continuous contact with the 
Civil Emergencies and Crises Committee at the Ministry of the Interior. The Institute of Public 
Health (IPH) is the National Focal Point for Influenza Pandemic (human public health). The 
Institute of Veterinary Research (IVR) in MAFCP is the National Focal Point for Avian 
Influenza (veterinary public health). Establishment of Avian Pandemic Influenza District 
Committees (sub-national level) is under progress.  
 
However, there is an urgent need to improve Albania’s capacity to prevent, identify, 
contain and eradicate HPAI outbreaks, and deal with a potential pandemic should this 
contingency develop. In light of this and the need for institutional strengthening, greater public 
awareness, and the potential need for compensation funds, the government is urgently seeking to 
step up its response to the threat of HPAI, and has requested World Bank financing for its 
efforts.  
 
Albania meets the eligibility criteria for financing under the GPAI as a newly infected 
country with an active outbreak of avian flu among poultry, but no human infection, with an 
appropriate program of rapid response, detection and containment measures, including 
appropriate implementation and monitoring arrangements that the international agencies and 
donor community, including the Bank, can support.
5
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objective is to strengthen the country’s capacity to 
prevent the spread of avian influenza among poultry, to prevent the transmission of 
avian influenza from birds to other animals and humans, and to prepare for a 
potential pandemic of avian influenza transmissible between humans.  
 
The key project outcome indicators will be: 
 
With regard to awareness of HPAI threat and how to prevent it: 
1.  Behavior changes among key veterinary and public health personnel 
2.  Public awareness of how to prevent spread increases and behavior changes. 
 
With regard to HPAI outbreaks among poultry: 
1.  Government culls birds at the infection points following international best practice 
2.  Government provides timely compensation to farmers for culled birds 
 
With regard to HPAI outbreaks among humans: 
1.  Infection diagnosed and contained 
2.  Patients receive appropriate treatment for HPAI infection 
 
The AI task force meets regularly. However, as yet it has no permanent secretariat with full time staff working to 
coordinate detailed planning and crisis management and ensure regular monitoring and supervision of activities.  
5
See GPAI PAD p. 14. 
Page  3
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This project will bring important benefits in the areas of strengthening veterinary and 
public health services and mitigating the social and economic fallout of a potential influenza 
pandemic.  
 
The World Health Organization and other UN agencies have taken the lead in mounting 
the technical response to Albania’s avian influenza crisis. This Project Appraisal Document 
builds on prior work conducted by the Albanian government and these agencies.
6
These agencies 
operating on the ground have already mobilized to respond and address some of the most critical 
needs that have been identified.
7
Going forward, the World Bank anticipates that these UN 
agencies will continue to take the lead in providing technical assistance.  
 
However, the scale of the response that is needed to contain and eradicate avian influenza 
outbreaks, and prevent transmission to humans, requires mobilization of financial resources 
beyond the mandate and means of these organizations, and well beyond the government’s 
emergency reserves. The World Bank is able to bring critical assistance to these efforts in the 
form of a financing framework (IDA credits and some grant money). This financial support is 
also important to lend credibility to the compensation scheme for culling poultry.  
 
In addition, with experience of assisting other countries under the GPAI umbrella the 
Bank is able to bring valuable lessons learned from other countries facing similar threats and in 
similar operating environments.  It also has important operational experience in mounting 
emergency response lending, and helping coordinate the assistance of other donors as part of 
emergency operations.   
 
4. Description 
 
The project will consist of the following four components:  
 
Component I:  
Public Awareness and Information  
 
This component will help develop and implement a communications plan to 
inform the public, particularly those more likely to be exposed to HPAI, about the 
threat of HPAI and how they can minimize the risk of transmission and spread of 
disease. A communications expert will be appointed within the Avian Influenza 
Task Force (TF) to manage a communications campaign to inform the general 
public about the status of HPAI in the country and actions being taken by the 
government. Key messages and materials will be developed and disseminated for 
6
This work, in the form of the “Support for Albanian Avian Influenza Control Program”, was prepared in line with 
the WHO, FAO, OIE and other relevant institutions’ documents and guidelines addressing ‘Global Avian Influenza 
Preparedness Planning and Response’, and information from the IPH’s National Contingency Plan. 
7
The responses that will coordinate most closely with the World Bank’s project are continued provision of technical 
support by WHO to the government of Albania, and preparation, implementation and support to the government on 
a
communications campaign, jointly managed by UNICEF and USAID. 
Page  4
different audiences, particularly key high-risk groups, such as farmers and children 
in wetland areas where probability of exposure is high.  
 
Component II:  
Animal Health 
 
This component will comprise three subcomponents: 
 
The first subcomponent will focus on 
HPAI prevention and preparedness 
capability
.
It will strengthen the national policy and regulatory environment for 
veterinary service and inspection, and improve HPAI prevention and control 
planning.   
 
The second subcomponent will focus on 
strengthening disease control 
capacities, and improving surveillance, diagnostic capacities, and applied research
.
It will strengthen veterinary epidemiological surveillance through the creation of a 
National Veterinary Epidemiological Unit (NVEU), operating at the central and 
field level. National diagnostic capacities and bio-safety levels at the Institute of 
Veterinary Research and the Regional Veterinary Laboratories will also be 
strengthened, through equipment and technical assistance. Animal disease 
information systems will also be improved.  
 
The third subcomponent will focus on 
strengthening HPAI control programs 
and outbreak containment programs
.
It will target virus eradication at the source 
through culling and disposing of infected and at-risk poultry, and control of 
movement of birds, with the assistance of two mobile sub-units of the NVEU. 
Training and protective equipment will be provided to promote the safety of 
personnel dealing with potentially affected poultry. This subcomponent will also 
include a compensation fund, to improve the capacity and the credibility of the 
government’s commitment to compensate farmers for all culled livestock. 
 
Component III:   Human Health Component  
 
This component will comprise three subcomponents:  
 
The first subcomponent will 
enhance coordination and program planning
,
by: 
(i) strengthening intra-sectoral command and sector coordination mechanisms; (ii) 
identifying crucial gaps in human health infrastructure, equipment, human and 
other resources; and (iii) preparing a detailed plan defining operational priorities 
and clearly identifying roles and responsibilities at each level of the health system. 
This subcomponent will also finance development of a detailed implementation plan 
for “social distancing” measures in the case of an epidemic, and simulation 
exercises.  
 
The second subcomponent will 
strengthen the national public surveillance 
system
 by: (i) providing the National Influenza Laboratory (NIL) with training, 
Page  5
equipment and facilities to contribute to up-grading its bio-safety level; and (ii) 
strengthening the capacity of the IPH and regional epidemiological investigation 
and response teams.  
 
The third subcomponent will 
strengthen health care response capacity
,
by 
expanding regular seasonal flu vaccinations, supporting the purchase and 
distribution of anti-viral drugs and developing effective guidelines for their use, and 
strengthening the capacity of medical services to isolate and treat patients with 
severe communicable diseases. 
 
Component IV:   Support to Avian Influenza Task Force 
 
This component will support the Avian Influenza TF in implementation of the 
government’s Avian Influenza response strategy (including components I-III above), 
and will comprise two subcomponents:  
 
The first subcomponent will 
strengthen the TF by establishing a permanent 
Secretariat 
with full-time staff to manage the project, and clearly laying out their 
areas of authority (for more details, see C.1., Institutional and implementation 
arrangements).  
 
The second subcomponent will support 
monitoring and evaluation
 
capacities and activities
 at all administrative levels, and will develop an action plan for 
monitoring and evaluation. This action plan will include baseline studies, ongoing participatory 
monitoring and evaluation, and a final project evaluation. Specific surveys may be conducted to 
obtain data for this purpose. Project evaluation will include both quantitative and qualitative 
aspects and be conducted on a yearly basis.   
 
One of the key characteristics of the HPAI threat is the difficulty in predicting 
the course the pandemic will take.  An important feature of the project therefore is 
the flexibility to adapt to a changing situation, with the ability to reallocate funds 
between components and categories, and potentially to draw up new components if 
necessary.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT TBC 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.0 
JAPAN: MINISTRY OF FINANCE - PHRD GRANTS 
0.8 
 Total 
5.8 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Page  6
The Project will be implemented by existing governmental institutions. The two main 
implementation agencies will be MAFCP and the Ministry of Health, and their related central 
and regional agencies. Other governmental agencies and non government organizations and 
service providers (Regional Extension Service, private veterinarians, community-based 
organizations) will also be involved in the delivery of a variety of services.  
 
Given the national importance and cross-sectoral nature of the project, overall 
responsibility for overseeing and coordinating institutional and implementation arrangements at 
the national level will be vested with the government’s Avian Influenza TF. Within the TF there 
will be a permanent Secretariat, located in MAFCP. The Secretariat will be led by an animal 
health expert in charge of coordinating the Animal Health component, and a physician to 
coordinate the Human Health component. The Secretariat will manage everyday implementation 
issues related to the project, and will coordinate the activities among all ministries involved such 
as Agriculture, Health, Environment/ Forestry, Interior (dealing with emergency situations), 
Education, Finance and donors community. The Secretariat will coordinate project activities with 
the departments in charge in each ministry, with their research institutions, and with sector staff 
in the Regions, Municipalities and Communes. 
 
The two officials leading the Secretariat will be local consultants hired as Component 
Coordinators by the MAFCP and the Ministry of Health. They will initially be supported by 
project funds for the first year of the project only, after which they will be paid by the 
Government.  Their specific responsibilities will be to manage and implement project activities 
within their sectors. Both coordinators will report directly to the TF Chairman, and they will 
coordinate project activities with other relevant government agencies. Moreover they will 
prepare annual work programs in their sectors and submit inputs to the Project’s quarterly and 
annual financial monitoring reports. They will be responsible for monitoring and will collect 
relevant data from their respective implementing ministries and agencies and compile them into 
progress reports, focusing on the status of physical implementation by component, the use of 
project funds, and monitoring indicators.  They will be supported by a small staff and may be 
recruited as permanent staff of MAFCP upon project completion.   
 
Fiduciary and procurement expertise, including responsibility for consolidating the 
annual Work Programs and budgets, and for the consolidation of quarterly financial management 
reporting and progress reports, will be sourced from existing capacity in MAFCP, with the help 
of additional staff/consultants recruited for overall administration of training activities, 
procurement, and financial management. The Project will adopt the operational manual of 
procedures of the existing PMU of the Water Resource Management Project, incorporating it 
into its operational manual and adding procedures for the operation of the Compensation Fund. 
 
At the Region, Municipal and Commune levels, implementation will be the direct 
responsibility of the respective Region, Municipality and Commune agricultural and health 
departments and services. Small inter-agency coordination units will be assigned at the local 
level to work under the supervision and guidance of the Secretariat. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Page  7
The Government of Albania has committed itself to a medium term strategy to address 
HPAI and other zoonoses in domestic poultry and to prepare for, control and respond to an avian 
influenza epidemic in humans. The strategy is endorsed by the World Health Organization and 
other donors. A multidisciplinary TF chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture is 
coordinating these efforts and reporting to the Prime Minister’s office.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. 
 
The project has been prepared under the Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and response (GPAI) and has incorporated the lessons 
learned for the preparation of that project.
8
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Since the Project supports investments in carcass disposal for culled poultry and 
investments in laboratories and hospitals it receives a B category for safeguard screening.  The 
project operations manual (a condition of effectiveness) will include an environmental 
assessment (EA) and environmental management plan (EMP) to address these issues. A waiver 
for the requirement to complete the EA and EMP during project preparation has been sought and 
obtained per para. 12 of OP 4.01.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
a. 
“Albanian National Pandemic Influenza A/H5N1 Preparedness and Response Plan 
(Institute of Public Health and the Institute of Veterinary Research January 2006)”;  
b.  “Rapid Assessment of Preparedness and Response Albanian Capacities to confront a 
possible Avian Influenza Epidemic Breakdown (WHO September 2005)”;  
8
See Program Framework Document for Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic 
Preparedness and Response (GPAI), World Bank, December 5, 2005. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
c. 
“Veterinary Border Inspection Posts Assessment (WHO 2004)”;  
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Julian A. Lampietti 
Title: Senior Social Development Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8221 
Fax:  
Email: Jlampietti@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
