Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2282 
Project Name 
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and 
Response Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);Health 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P100273 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Albania 
Albania 
 
Ministry of Agriculture and Food 
Albania 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 23, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 31, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. Country and sector issues 
 
Albania is 
an “Immanent Risk Case” for Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), 
with the confirmation in March 2006 of two outbreaks of HPAI cases discovered among 
domestically reared poultry.
1
The threat of new infection among poultry is great, and sporadic 
outbreaks of HPAI have great potential to spread if left unchecked. More than half of 323 wild 
bird species recorded in the country are considered migratory, frequenting wetlands bordering on 
farming communities. Albania’s poultry population is given as 6.275 million, of which over 85 
percent are reared in a free-ranging environment on small household farms across the country.
2
The potential consequences of an unchecked outbreak, including transmission of the virus to 
humans and the appearance of a virus transmissible between humans, are well-documented.
3
The government of Albania, with the support of the international donor community in 
Albania, has focused on mounting a rapid response, improving surveillance, detection and 
containment measures. These efforts include adjusting legislation for control and prevention of 
1
See GPAI PAD p. 54. 
2
The remaining 15 percent is reared on 32 commercial farms ranging in size from 500 to 220,000 heads. 
3
See GPAI PAD p.1-3. 
Page  2
communicable diseases, including influenza pandemics, in line with international legislation; 
establishing a National Influenza Pandemic Committee, or 
“Task Force,” as an inter-ministerial 
and inter-sectoral decision-making body;
4
and establishing a working group between the 
Ministries of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection (MAFCP). 
The Ministry of Health has prepared and monitors implementation of a national contingency 
plan, and an Influenza Committee at the Ministry of Health is in continuous contact with the 
Civil Emergencies and Crises Committee at the Ministry of the Interior. The Institute of Public 
Health (IPH) is the National Focal Point for Influenza Pandemic (human public health). The 
Institute of Veterinary Research (IVR) in MAFCP is the National Focal Point for Avian 
Influenza (veterinary public health). Establishment of Avian Pandemic Influenza District 
Committees (sub-national level) is under progress.  
 
However, there is an urgent need to improve Albania’s capacity to prevent, identify, 
contain and eradicate HPAI outbreaks, and deal with a potential pandemic should this 
contingency develop. In light of this and the need for institutional strengthening, greater public 
awareness, and the potential need for compensation funds, the government is urgently seeking to 
step up its response to the threat of HPAI, and has requested World Bank financing for its 
efforts.  
 
Albania meets the eligibility criteria for financing under the GPAI as a newly infected 
country with an active outbreak of avian flu among poultry, but no human infection, with an 
appropriate program of rapid response, detection and containment measures, including 
appropriate implementation and monitoring arrangements that the international agencies and 
donor community, including the Bank, can support.
5
2. Rationale for Bank involvement  
 
This project will bring important benefits in the areas of strengthening veterinary and 
public health services and mitigating the social and economic fallout of a potential influenza 
pandemic.  
 
The World Health Organization and other UN agencies have taken the lead in mounting 
the technical response to Albania’s avian influenza crisis. This Project Appraisal Document 
builds on prior work conducted by the Albanian government and these agencies.
6
These agencies 
operating on the ground have already mobilized to respond and address some of the most critical 
4
This Task Force was established by order of the Prime Minister on October 28, 2005
.
M
embership of the Task 
Force includes the Ministries of Agriculture (chair), Health, Interior, Education, Environment, and Finance. Its main 
responsibilities include taking decisions at the national level for prevention and control of AI; coordination of the 
national contingency plan; and distribution of tasks to each ministry; ensuring implementation at the field level; 
preparing bulletins; informi
ng the PM’s office; and communicating with national and international organizations.  
The AI task force meets regularly. However, as yet it has no permanent secretariat with full time staff working to 
coordinate detailed planning and crisis management and ensure regular monitoring and supervision of activities.  
5
See GPAI PAD p. 14. 
6
This work, in the form of the “Support for Albanian Avian Influenza Control Program”, was prepared in line with 
the WHO, FAO, OIE and other relevant institutions’ documents and guidelines addressing ‘Global Avian Influenza 
Preparedness Planning and Response’, and information from the IPH’s National Contingency Plan. 
Page  3
needs that have been identified.
7
Going forward, the World Bank anticipates that these UN 
agencies will continue to take the lead in providing technical assistance.  
 
However, the scale of the response that is needed to contain and eradicate avian influenza 
outbreaks, and prevent transmission to humans, requires mobilization of financial resources 
beyond the mandate and means of these organizations
,
and well beyond the government’s 
emergency reserves. The World Bank is able to bring critical assistance to these efforts in the 
form of a financing framework (IDA credits and some grant money). This financial support is 
also important to lend credibility to the compensation scheme for culling poultry.  
 
In addition, with experience of assisting other countries under the GPAI umbrella the 
Bank is able to bring valuable lessons learned from other countries facing similar threats and in 
similar operating environments.  It also has important operational experience in mounting 
emergency response lending, and helping coordinate the assistance of other donors as part of 
emergency operations.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project development objective is to strengthen the country’s capacity to 
prevent the spread of avian influenza among poultry, to prevent the transmission of 
avian influenza from birds to other animals and humans, and to prepare for a 
potential pandemic of avian influenza transmissible between humans.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Component I:  
Public Awareness and Information  
 
This component will help develop and implement a communications plan to inform 
the public, particularly those more likely to be exposed to HPAI, about the threat of 
HPAI and how they can minimize the risk of transmission and spread of disease. A 
communications expert will be appointed within the Avian Influenza Task Force 
(TF) to manage a communications campaign to inform the general public about the 
status of HPAI in the country and actions being taken by the government. Key 
messages and materials will be developed and disseminated for different audiences, 
particularly key high-risk groups, such as farmers and children in wetland areas 
where probability of exposure is high.  
 
Component II:  
Animal Health  
 
This will comprise three subcomponents: 
 
7
The responses that will coordinate most closely with the World Bank’s project are continued provision of technical 
support by WHO to the government of Albania, and preparation, implementation and support to the government on 
a
communications campaign, jointly managed by UNICEF and USAID. 
Page  4
The first subcomponent will focus on 
HPAI prevention and preparedness capability
.
It will strengthen the national policy and regulatory environment for veterinary 
service and inspection, and improve HPAI prevention and control planning.   
 
The second subcomponent will focus on 
strengthening disease control capacities, and 
improving surveillance, diagnostic capacities, and applied research
.
It will 
strengthen veterinary epidemiological surveillance through the creation of a 
National Veterinary Epidemiological Unit (NVEU), operating at the central and 
field level. National diagnostic capacities and bio-safety levels at the Institute of 
Veterinary Research and the Regional Veterinary Laboratories will also be 
strengthened, through equipment and technical assistance. Animal disease 
information systems will also be improved.  
 
The third subcomponent will focus on 
strengthening HPAI control programs and 
outbreak containment programs
.
It will target virus eradication at the source 
through culling and disposing of infected and at-risk poultry, and control of 
movement of birds, with the assistance of two mobile sub-units of the NVEU. 
Training and protective equipment will be provided to promote the safety of 
personnel dealing with potentially affected poultry. This subcomponent will also 
include a compensation fund, to improve the capacity and the credibility of the 
government’s commitment to compensate farmers for all culled livestock. 
 
Component III:   Human Health Component  
 
This will comprise three subcomponents:  
 
The first subcomponent will 
enhance coordination and program planning
,
by: (i) 
strengthening intra-sectoral command and sector coordination mechanisms; (ii) 
identifying crucial gaps in human health infrastructure, equipment, human and 
other resources; and (iii) preparing a detailed plan defining operational priorities 
and clearly identifying roles and responsibilities at each level of the health system. 
This subcomponent will also finance development of a detailed implementation plan 
for “social distancing” measures in the case of an epidemic, and simulation 
exercises.  
 
The second subcomponent will 
strengthen the national public surveillance system
 by: 
(i) providing the National Influenza Laboratory (NIL) with training, equipment and 
facilities to contribute to up-grading its bio-safety level; and (ii) strengthening the 
capacity of the IPH and regional epidemiological investigation and response teams.  
 
The third subcomponent will 
strengthen health care response capacity
,
by expanding 
regular seasonal flu vaccinations, supporting the purchase and distribution of anti-
viral drugs and developing effective guidelines for their use, and strengthening the 
capacity of medical services to isolate and treat patients with severe communicable 
diseases. 
Page  5
Component IV:   Support to Avian Influenza Task Force 
 
This component will support the Avian Influenza TF in implementation of the 
government’s Avian Influenza response strategy (including components I-III above), 
and will comprise two subcomponents:  
 
The first subcomponent will 
strengthen the TF by establishing a permanent 
Secretariat 
with full-time staff to manage the project, and clearly laying out their 
areas of authority (for more details, see C.1., Institutional and implementation 
arrangements).  
 
The second subcomponent will support 
monitoring and evaluation
 capacities and 
activities
 at all administrative levels, and will develop an action plan for monitoring and 
evaluation. This action plan will include baseline studies, ongoing participatory monitoring and 
evaluation, and a final project evaluation. Specific surveys may be conducted to obtain data for 
this purpose. Project evaluation will include both quantitative and qualitative aspects and be 
conducted on a yearly basis.   
 
One of the key characteristics of the HPAI threat is the difficulty in 
predicting the course the pandemic will take.  An important feature of the project 
therefore is the flexibility to adapt to a changing situation, with the ability to 
reallocate funds between components and categories, and potentially to draw up 
new components if necessary.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Since the Project supports investments in carcass disposal for culled poultry and 
investments in laboratories and hospitals it receives a B category for safeguard 
screening.  Since the specific location of poultry culling and laboratory and hospital 
upgrading has not been determined at this time, the project operations manual (a 
condition of Effectiveness) will include an environmental assessment (EA) and 
environmental management plan (EMP) to address these issues. A waiver for the 
requirement to complete the EA and EMP during project preparation has been 
sought and obtained per para. 12 of OP 4.01.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5 
JAPAN: MINISTRY OF FINANCE - PHRD GRANTS 
.8 
 Total 
5.8 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Julian A. Lampietti 
Page  6
Title: Senior Social Development Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8221 
Fax:  
Email: Jlampietti@worldbank.org
 
